Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repmt No. P-4195-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTER!;ATIONAL BANK- FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED L')AN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 250 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
TRADE AND AGRICULTURAL POLICY LOAN
March 27, 1986
This documeut b  a reted distio. ad may be ose by recipients only in the perfoanance of
ther effidl dudes  Its coot.- -ay u  thdmewise be dbeloed witbout Worltd Bmck aborizon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit     =        Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$142.5         =        US$1.00 (1985 average)
Col$178.1         =        US$1.00 (March 1, 1986)
Col$1.00          =        US$0.006 (March 1, 1986)
WEIGETS AND EWASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLDSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOR                    -  Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
BONOS DE PRENDA        -  Storage credit
CAJA AGRARIA           -  Caja de Credito Agraria, Industrial y Minero
(Agricultural, Industrial and Mining Credit Bank)
CERT                   -  Certificado de Reembolso Tributario
(Tax Reimbursement Certificate for Exporters)
CPI                    -  Consumer price index
DNP                    -  Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
DRI                    -  Programa de Desarrollo Rural Integrado
(Integrated Rural Development Program)
FEDERACAFE             -  Federacion Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia
(National Federation of Colombian Coffee Growers)
FFAP                   -  Fondo Financiero Agro.-cuario (Agricultural Financial Fund)
HIMAT                  -  Instituto de Hidrologia, Meteorologia y Adecuaciones
de Tierras
(Institute for Hydrology, Meteorology and Land Improvement)
ICA                    -  Instituto Colombiano Agropecuario
(Colombian Agricultural Institute)
IDEMA                  -  Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute)
INCOMEX                -  Instituto de Comercio Exterior (Foreign Trade Institute)
INCORA                -  Institutc Colombiano de la Reforma Agraria
(Colombian Institute for Agrarian Reform)
INDERENA              -  Instituto Nacional de los Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Ambiente
(National Institute for Renewable Natural Resources and the
Environment)
MOA                    -  Ministry of Agriculture
OPSA                   -  Oficina de Planeamiento del Sector Agropecuario
(Planning Office, Ministry of Agriculture)
PLAN VALLEJO (PV/SIEX)-  Import duty drawback and exemption schemes for exporters
PROEXPO                -  Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (Export Promotion Fund)
TPED                   -  Trade Policy and Export Diversification
TAP                    -  Trade and Agricultural Policy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
TRADE AND AGRICULTURAL POLICY LOAN
SUMKARY
Borrower:          Republic of Colombia
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture and INCOMEX
Amount:            US$250 million equivalent
Terms:             17 years, including four years of grace at the standard
variable int'erest rate.
Project
Description:       The  operation  provides  further  support  to  Colombia's
medium-term, growth-oriented, structural adjustment pro-
gram by:   (i) deepening reforms in the macroeconomic,
trade and public investment areas; and (ii) reducing trade
and sectoral distortions in agriculture.   These efforts
are expected to provide a sounder basis for export-
oriented growth. The reviews in the context of the loan
assist in monitoring the economic program and in promoting
the participation of the external financial community in
the program. The loan would: (a) support trade liberal-
ization, including a further reduction of export restric-
tions, a progressive reduction of import restrictions and
duties, and improvements in the use of duty exemptions for
exporters; (b) rationalize trade and price intervention
policies in agriculture; (c) support coffee policy in
balancing the incentives between coffee and non-coffee
agriculture; (d) support reforms to improve agricultural
credit availability at more realistic interest rates; and
(e) review efficiency in public investments in the agri-
cultural and rural sectors, and provide institutional
support to the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Risks:     Import  liberalization  of agricultural  inputs may hurt
domestic producers who are unable to adjust to the
change. This risk, however, is minor considering that the
domestic producers would also benefit from the liberaliza-
tion of imported raw materials; moreover, the contribution
of this subsector to employment is relatively small.
Measures affecting protection for the import-competing
commodities could potentially hurt small farmers special-
izing in these categories; but the policy changes are
gradual and provide for offsetting cost reductions and
increased investments. Finally, there are the usual risks
of continuity in policies, especially regarding incentives
for minor exports even in the event of a sizeable expan-
sion in export earnings from coffee, petroleum and coal.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The understandings for the loan's second tranche, and the
Government's awareness of this issue in the light of the
experience with the previous coffee boom should minimize
this risk.
Estimated
Disbursements:  Out of a first tranche of US$125 million, US$25 million
would be released to an export account upon loan effec-
tiveness. The remaining US$100 million would be available
upon effectiveness to be disbursed by reimbursing 30Z of
import payments for imports of agricultural inputs,
machinery and equipment.   The second tranebe of US$125
million would be released provided the review of the
economic program, trade and agricultural policies in
November, 1986 demonstrates satisfactory implementation of
the agreed program.
Appraisal Report:  This  is  the  combined  President's  and  Staff Appraisal
Report.
Nap:               IBID No. 18370



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND AGRICULTURAL POLICY LOAN
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Colombia for the equivalent of USS250 million to help
finance a Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan. The loan would have a term of
17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. A
mission to review the external sector and agriculture visited Colombia during
April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in April 1984. A review of macroeconomic developments was con-
tained in the President's Report for the Trade Policy and Export
Diversification Loan (P-4055-CO) of May 1985. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
A. Background
3.        The Colombian economy has made considerable progress since the
early 1950s, evolving from a largely agricultural and rural base into one
that is more open, integrated and industrialized. The growing economic
activity, rapid rural-urban migration, increased participation of women in
the labor force, and expanded public services have contributed to reductions
in poverty and improvements in income distribution. Financial and capital
markets have evolved pari passu with the growing needs of the economy, and
the country has become an active participant in international capital
markets. State enterprises are few, follow, on the whole, adequate pricing
policies, and many have some form of private sector participation. The
country's energy balance has been changing in recent years and Colombia is
expected to become a net petroleum exporter this year and, increasingly, an
exporter of thermal coal.
4.        Export promotion has been a concern of Colombian authorities for
some time. Beginning in 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-looking
development strategy, expanding and diversifying exports. Export promotion
policies, including frequent small devaluations of the peso, export tax
rebates and other incentives were introduced. The authorities also began
lowering tariffs somewhat and relaxing domestic capital market controls as a
means of raising efficiency and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian
goods in external markets. These measures were successful in relieving
foreign exchange constraints and stimulating growth and employment.



-2-
B. Economic Performance During the 1970s
5.        In the mid-1970s the economy faced strong inflationary pressures
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased coffee export
receipts, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange from
illegal exports, caused a turn-around in the balance of payments. Incomes
rose rapidly stimulating aggregate demand, and inflation accelerated.
Economic growth also rose, and unemployment fell substantially in rural and
urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the
public finances generated surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during 1976-78
and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen to
about US$4.1 billion, nearly eleven months equivalent of that year's imports
of goods and services.
6.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had
some negative effects. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed and the
conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the growth
of domestic demand, with adverse effects on non-coffee exports.  The
Government also sought to check inflation by maintaining high reserve
requirements and expanding controls over credit thereby reducing, in real
terms, the financing available to the private sector through the formal
capital market.
7.        The 1977-79 economic program was partially successful in restrain-
ing aggregate demand growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In
response to the increasing restraint on aggregate demand, troublesome finan-
cial market distortions and disincentives to non-coffee exports from the
exchange rate appreciation, the authorities began in late 1979 to -djust the
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced somewhat, and in early
1980 credit restraints were relaxed. At the same time, interest -ates on
certificates of deposit--and on lending therefromr-were freed from controls.
To offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy of not expanding the sub-
sidized selective credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the
resources captured from private savings for this purpose. Real GDP growth
decelerated to 4% in 1980 from an average of almost 6% since 1960, unemploy-
ment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
C. Recent Economic Developments
8.        During 1981-83 the economic situation took a turn for the worse in
part on account of external factors, with real GDP growth slowing down to
2.3% in 1981 and 1.2% on average in 1982-1983. Agricultural output was hard-
hit as a result of low international prices, reduced input use from declining
profitability and adverse weather. Industrial activity deteriorated on
account of depressed aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to
increase, particularly in manufacturing. Unemployment reached almost 14% of
the labor force at the end of the year, up from about 7% at the end of 1981.
Inflation, however, slowed down in 1983 to a 20% average for the year, down
from 28% in 1981 and 25% in 1982.
9.        After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit of about
US$1.5 billion emerged in the resource balance in 1981 and it increased to an
average of about US$2.2 billion in 1982-83. These deficits resulted mainly



from a drop in exports at constant prices: in addition to domestic factors,
major reasons were the slowdown in world demand, large devaluations and
import restrictions in neighboring countries, and the reduction of Colombia's
coffee exports from their previous high levels. Net foreign exchange
reserves declined by about US$1.8 billion in 1983 to about US$3.1 billion,
equivalent to about five months of imports of goods and services in that
year.  On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with
increased current expenditures resulting from automatic transfers to depart-
ments and municipalities and large infrastructure investments in energy and
transport led to growing deficits: the Central Government cash deficit grew
from 2.1% of GDP in 1980 to 4.1% in 1983, while that of the consolidated
public sector rose from 3.6% to 7.6%.
10.       In 1983 the Government introduced policies to stimulate aggregate
demand and expand non-coffee exports. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated; housing construction was provided with incentives to mobilize
more resources; and selective credit operations to the productive sectors
were expanded. Temporary import restrictions were introduced for balance of
payments stabilization, ir- addition to measures to reduce the fiscal deficit
and to ease distortions in the financial system. These efforts were insuffi-
cient to reverse the deteriorating balance of payments trends particularly in
view of the tight international capital market. Colombia, unlike some other
Latin American countries, has not had a debt problem because of a relatively
low debt-level, the high share of debt from multilateral institutions in
total debt outstanding, and the term structure of such debt. However, the
Latin American debt problem produced a sharp reduction in the credit lines
available to Colombia and difficulties in obtaining medium-term loans for
ongoing projects, which contributed to further declines in foreign exchange
reserves and to strains in the financial system.
11.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to focus increasingly on:
additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain the fiscal deficit and
monetary expansion: acceleration of the exchange rate devaluations and
further increased incentives to exports; measures to improve the profitabil-
ity of the commercial banking and to resolve the external debt problems of
the private sector. The policy reforms began to take hold during the second
half of 1984. Real GDP growth increased to 3.2%, the unemployment rate fell
to 13% of the labor force at year's end from its increased levels during
1983-84, while inflation was brought down to 16.4% on average in 1984.
Merchandise exports grew at about 12%; the current account deficit in the
balance of payments was reduced by nearly US$1 billion to 5.3% of GDP, and
reserves remained at about US$1.8 b,llion at year end (about three and one-
half months of 1984's imports of goods and services).
12.       Macroeconomic policy reforms were deepened in 1985.  The economic
program has contributed to a sharp and sustained adjustment thus far. The
current account in the balance of payment registered a significant impr9ve-
ment in 1985 declining to a deficit of nearly 4.0% of GDP. Inflation
remained under control in 1985 at less than 23%, while economic growth con-
tinued at a modest rate below 3%, although the unemployment rate remained
higher than in recent years. In contrast with a US$1.3 billion fall in 1984
and a previously projected fall of US$50 million in 1985, net reserves
increased by US$271 million in 1985.



-4-
D. Growth and Balance of Payments
13.       With further policy improvements (see Part II), Colombia's growth
prospects for the rest of the decade would be good. At this stage, projec-
tions are made difficult by the recently emerging international coffee situa-
tion, which could mean a foreign exchange boom of additional receipts depend-
ing on the severity of the Brazilian drought and production shortfall. Pre-
liminary calculations suggest, however, that the medium-term scenarios would
not be affected substantially:  1986-and possibly 1987-on the other hand,
should witness a greater reserve accumulation and increased debt repayments.
According to present projections, the current account deficit of the balance
of payments would average some US$800 million per year (less than 2.5% of
GDP), and real GDP growth nearly 3.5% during 1985-86. By end-1986 net
official international reserves would be over four and one-half months of
1986 imports of goods and services. Total investment would need to be main-
tained at about 19% of GDP to complete energy and mining projects, and gross
national savings about 17.3% of GDP compared to 14.3% during 1981-84, with
the public sector generating a significant part of the additional savings.
Beyond 1986 real GDP growth should resume at near historical rates, averaging
4.0-5.0% per year during 1986-90. The current account deficit should remain
modest as a result of increasing export proceeds from new non-traditional
exports (particularly crude petroleum and coal), declining to less than 2% of
GDP by 1990.
14.       Total gross external medium- and long-term capital requirements
are projected to total about US$6 billion for the 1985-86 period. Net
foreign investment is expected to account for about US$1.0 billion during
1985-86, most of which would be to complete existing energy projects. About
US$2.5 billion is expected from multilaterdl, bilateral and other official
sources. A similar amount is expected from private sources during 1985-S6,
including about one-half of the US$1 billion new money signed with the com-
mercial banks in December 1985 mainly to complete petroleum and coal projects
for export. At the end of 1984 Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed
M&LT external debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to US$8.0 billion
(21% of GDP). The Bank share of this external debt (excluding non-guaranteed
private) was 22.8% in 1984 which is expected to reach an average of about 25%
during 1987-90. The public debt service ratio in 1984 was 23.5% and, based
on assumptions of the current program, it is expected to peak at about 30% in
1987 and then decline below 30% after 1990. The Bank's share in M&LT public
debt service (excluding non-guaranteed private) was 25.3% in 1984 and it is
expected to average aboi  23% during 1987-90. With sound management and the
new export activities referred to above, Colombia is expected to maintain its
creditworthiness through and beyond 1985-90.
E. Medium-Term Policy and Bank Strategy
15.       The country's medium-term prospects would be related co the relaxa-
tion of key developmental constraints. Central to rapid growth and employ-
ment generation would be diversification of exports and production that can
be achieved through the execution of an outward-looking strategy. Government
policy and public sector management have been addressing these issues. Bank
presence in Colombia seeks to underpin a sound macroeconomic program for
adjustment with growth, and support policy improvements at the sectoral



level. A three-pronged approach is envisaged, of providing assistance
through policy-based macroeconomic operations, sector loans and the more
traditional projects. The policies and financing are expected to support a
revitalization of export-oriented growth over the medium-term.
16.       Support for the economic program was initially provided through the
Bank's Trade Policy and Export Diversification (TPED) Loan. The present pro-
posal is a follow-up operation as part of a financing package to help imple-
ment the program. This loan deals with three policy areas: (i) macro-
economic policy; (ii) general trade reform; and (iii) trade and agricultural
policy. The second tranche of the TPED Loan was released on March 27, 1986,
thereby enabling the release of a part of the US$1 billion from the commer-
cial banks. This loan also will be released in two tranches, one upon effec-
tiveness and the second following a review of policy in November 1986.
Future operations are envisioned to follow-up further on agricultuiral policy
reform, and extend the impact of macroeconomic improvements in other sectors
such as energy and transport as well.
PART II - THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Macroeconomic Measures
17.       The Government has been reorienting trade policies towards outward-
looking growth and revising public investments and pricing policies. Key
elements of this program, supported by the TPED Loan for 1985-86, would be
extended through 1986 and 1987 and supported by this loan (also see Annex
4). The 1985 program was successful in achieving adjustment with growth, and
the targets of the Colombian program being monitored by the IMF have been
met. The figures below for 1986 reflect the macroeconomic program the
Government has discussed with the IMF and the Bank. Selected aspects of past
performance, recent policy adjustments and future outlook are highlighted in
Table 1.
18.       Fiscal Policy.  The 1985-86 program includes:  measures to elimi-
nate deductions in the income tax, a broader base for the value-added tax, an
increase in stamp taxes, and an additional temporary 8% import tax.
Together, these measures are estimated to have resulted in additional net
revenues for the Central Government of 43% during 1985. Public sector
salaries approved for 1985 implied an average salary reduction of about 13%
in real terms. Public sector subsidies in transport were reduced and a
scaling down of the investment program was initiated. As a result of these
measures, fiscal performance strengthened substantially and the overall
public sector deficit as a percentage of GDP was reduced by more than one-
third to 4.6% in 1985. These policies are envisaged to stay in place in
1986. Settlements of public sector salaries and minimum wages for 1986 seem
to have avoided real increases for this year. A further reduction of the
public sector deficit to about 2.2% of GDP in 1986 and a similar level for
1987 are envisaged, in part due to increased coffee revenues.
19.       Monetary Policy.  A rapid decline in the Central Government cash
deficit allowed for a reduction in monetary financing to the public sector in
1985 from the high 1984 level of about Col$150 billion. Central Bank



- 6 -
financi&g of the deficiL was kept to dabouee Col$35 billion in 1985, and it is
expected that the Central Government would require no Central Bank financing
in 1986. This would permit the banking system to expand credit to the
private sector in line with the growth in nominal GDP. Such an outcome would
reduce the pressure in the growth of the monetary base during a period when
reserves will be recovering. With a fiscal policy as discussed above and a
moderate expansion of credit to the private sector, the growth in the
monetary base and money supply should be in line with the expected growth of
nominal GDP.
20.       Exchange Rate Policy.  With the acceleration of the crawling peg
devaluation starting in 1983, Colombia achieved a significant real deprecia-
tion of its exchange rate. However, at the end of 1984, the trade-weighted
real exchange rate index still stood at only 82 compared to the 1975
.equilibrium" base (the highest level achieved in several decades). The 1985
program envisaged a recovery of the 1975 real level by the end of the year.
Towards this goal, the Government sharply accelerated the rate of the crawl-
ing peg to 51.3% in 1985, as compared to 27.8% during 1984. Exchange rate
policy was ext-;emely successful during 1985; as inflation was contained to
22.6% during the 12 months ending December and with the weakening of the
U.S. dollar vis-a-vis other major currencies during the second half of 1985,
the real exchange rate index increased to 7% in excess of the 1975 base
level, i.e., a 30.5% real depreciation of the peso. Current Government
policy is to maintain the real rate reached in December 1985 even in the
event of sizeable increases in export earnings from coffee, petroleum and
coal. Performance of non-coffee exports in 1986 in response to the signific-
antly depreciated peso should provide evidence on the adequacy of the present
real exchange rate and the basis for any further adjustment in real terms.
21.       Investment and Borrowing Program.  Reviews of the investment pro-
gram were initiated in early 1985 utilizing the criteria of encouraging
quick-yielding investments with significant and positive impact on produc-
tion, resource mobilization and the balance of payments. A scaling down of
the investment program has been necessary, including the postponement or
cancellation of all new large scale power generation and a number of large
transport projects. The revised program, which implies containing public
sector investment to less than 10% of GDP during 1985-87 compared to 10.5%
during 1983-84, consists largely of projects which are already in execution
or for which loans have been contracted. The investment program is dominated
by the mining and power sectors. The mining investments of nearly US$1.8
billion inclu'e ECOPETROL's (National Petroleum Company) petroleum production
and development program in association with foreign partners, and CARBOCOL's
(Public Company for Coal Resources) ongoing El Cerrejon Coal project, a joint
venture with EXXON. Both should contribute to a significant increase in
export earnings from 1986 onwards.
22.       Even with reductions in the current account deficit and the modest
scaling down of the share of public investment in GDP, gross medium- and
long-term capital disbursements (including net foreign investment) are
expected to average about US$3 billion p.a. in 1935-87 compared to about US$2
billion in 1980-84. As part of these overall capital requirements, a loan
for US$1 billion was signed at the end of 1985, about one-half of which is
expected to be utilized in 1986 and the rest available in 1987 if needed.
The country would require maintenance of the short-term credit lines from its



Table Is  COLONBIA: ECONOMIC PERFORIMCE, ADJUSTMIET AkD CRaOVr, 1970-1987
(annu I averages)
Record of the 1970s               Early 1950s                                The Nld-ISBUs
Export-Led      Coffee    EconomIc        Beginning of        Beginning of
Growth          Boom     Sat-back       Policy Concern        Adjustnt          Adjustmnt wIth Growth
1970-7S       1976-SO   1981-63             1983                 1984       19S5 *         1986 p    1987 p
1. Perormnene IndIcators
Aversa Growth Rate a/
GOP, conmtant price             5.7           5.5        1.3               1.6                 3.2         2.9            4.0       4.6
Experts CUIWS), constant        6.9           7.4       -5.2            -I1.9                  9.1        13.9           22.1       5.8
price
Inports CGSNFS), constant      2.2         1".1          3.2            - 8.4                -7.0         0.8            2.5        1.1
price
Inflation (CPI, average)      17.1          24.5        24.9             19.8                 16.4       22.6           22.0       18.0
Average Ratio (percent)
Current Account/COP            -2.9           1.2       -6.5             -7.3                 -5.3       -3.9           -1.0       -3.2
Year-end Reserves (USsn)        360        3,000       4,533            3,079                1,795      2,066          2,966      3.366
Months, Imports of C S       t2.7)         (8.1)      (7.9)             (5.0)               (3.1)       (3.5)          (4.6)     (4.8)
Total Debt Service Ratio b/  22.7            14.7       31.1             36.9                 37.2       38.2           31.6       37.4
Public Debt Service RatIo    13.2            10.4       16.8             21.2                 23.5       27.0            24.2      30.0
Total Investnt/G0P             19.1          I6.4       20.3              19.9               I.7         19.2           19.4      19.5
II. External Factors
Nominal Coffee Price C/
(1970-100)                       B4           133         88               89                   98         99             Jac       12S
Net Capital Inflow CUSsm5)d/   284           543       1.699            1,014                  710      1,576           1.239     1,594
OECO Growth Rate a              2.3           3.6        3.3              2.3                  4.7        3.0             3.0       3.0
III.  Domstc PeolIcy
Real Excbhnge
Rte (1975 - 100) /             89           85          75               75                   82         107              g9       ..9/
Money Base Growth                23            35          18               14                  18          27             28        24
Central Covern_nt
DafIcIt/q;OP                  1.1           0.4        3.9              4.1                  5.0        2.8             1.7       1.5
Overall Pub.Snctor Oeficith/  3.0             5.5        6.8              7.6                  7.6        4.6             2.2       2.0
CWFS ImportsGCOP                 IS           IS          17                16                  14          16             17        17
* - preliminary estimate
p - projection
&/  Note that average growth rates Include the rates In the and years.
b/  Includes non-guaranteed and short-tern debt.
c/  World Bank figures as of January 1986.
d'  Capital account balance, Including errors and omissions.
eo  For 1970 - 1975 figure. growth rate for 173 - 1975 was taken from IMF's World Economic Outlook, 1982; 1975-83 figures were derived
from World Bank's World Dovelop_ent Report, 1982; and 1984-86 aro from OECD3 Outlook.
f/  The calculations ucs  1975-84 estimated non-coffee trade weIghts; the 1983 and 1984 figures utlIze estimated weighted
average exchange rates and Inflation rates for Venezuela.
g/  MaIntain reaI exchange rate and revlew Its adequcy In view of balance of paymnts evidence.
h/  Central Government plus docentralized agencles.
Source: M1inIstry of Finance, lIF and World Bank estlmtes



-8-
major external bank creditors at least at levels prevailing at end-1984,
roughly US$1.5 billion; the Government is satisfied with developments and
prospects in this respect.
B. Trade Policy
23.       As a result of actions during 1983-84 in response to a worsening
foreign exchange situation, the trade regime became more restrictive than in
a long period of time. Few items remained in the free license regime, while
the share of items under import licensing and prohibition increased sharply;
the tariff regime was characterized by increasing average levels and disper-
sion, while export restrictions remained in effect. The trade policy changes
of the adjustment program have been three-fold: (i) reduce import prohibi-
tions, licences, tariff dispersion arnd tariff levels, build in substantial
automaticity and uniformity in the access to export incentives and eliminate
restrictions to exporting; and (ii) initiate more detailed studies of the
impact of trade policies and incentives on export performance providing the
basis for a medium-term action program; and (iii) put together a policy and
financial package in support of exports, fostering the resumption of commer-
cial bank flows to Colombia.
24.       The adjustment program has produced results in gradually opening up
the import and expcrt regimes and strengthening trade performance. The share
of imports that can be freely imported has been rising, first including
increasing magnitudes of inputs and raw materials in this share and subse-
quently selected finished products as well. The tariff regime has been in
the process of being rationalized and the access to export incentives
improved. Together with the significant depreciation of the real exchange
rate, export performance has been strengthened. Although it might be early
for an evaluation, recent policies seem to have contributed to improved
export performance. Non-coffee exports are estimated to have risen by nearly
14% in 1985 after a poor performance in the early 1980s and picking up in
1984; preliminary indications suggest that a process of diversification in
exports is underway.
25.       As will be detailed in Part IV, the present loan supports the
extension of trade actions by: (i) increasing free imports; (ii) further
rationalizing tariffs; and (iii) reducing further biases against exports.
These reforms would carry forward the process of liberalizing the export and
import regimes, in a manner that can be sustained and deepened over time,
giving Colombia a significantly st:engthened external sector. Based on the
findings of studies underway, a medium-term action program is expected to be
formulated later this year which could serve to guide future policy. The
Government envisages continued attention to issues of liberalization of
exports and imports, effective protection and efficiency.



9 
PART III - TRADE AND AGRICULTURE
A. Policy Issues
26.       Key areas for policy improvements in the general trade area over
the medium-term include import restrictions, tariff reform and export incen-
tives. First, quantitative controls on imports have varied substantially
over time, and policy reversals have often left the import regime restric-
tive. At the end of 1984 only 23 items (out of a total of 5,011 customs
positions) belonged to the free license regime. The reform program has been
addressing this problem. Imports needed for exports under the special export
schemes are already freely imported, although further improvements can be
made in streamlining procedures. The Government has been transferring more
items to the free license regime; imports of raw material and intermediate
inputs have been generally liberalized; the next steps are to reduce further
the discretionary element in the import regime through a steady and sustained
increase in the share that can be freely imported. Inclusion of progres-
sively more finished products would provide greater competition to domestic
production.
27.       Second, the level and variation in tariffs represent another area
for reform. In 1984 tariff dispersion amounted to a standard deviation of
29%, and the weighted average tariff rate was 36%. Actions already taken
have reduced the average tariff levels, and their dispersion. A maJor com-
ponent in the tariff incidence concerns a surcharge of 8% which was temporar-
ily introduced in 1984. Complementary to the envisaged phasing out of this
surcharge in 1986-87, a full evaluation of remaining tariffs would be needed,
beginning with the November 1986 review.
28.       Third, a key element of the medium-term strategy would be the
elimination of restrictions and disincentives to export. The performance of
non-coffee exports has fluctuated significantly in the past hurting the long-
term performance of the external sector. The reasons have partly been export
restrictions and other disincentives, and partly exchange rate overvaluation
particularly in periods of high coffee earnings. While significant progress
has been made, elimination of export restrictions, except those on non-
economic grounds related to national security, cultural heritage, environment
and similar, and minimization of administrative approval procedures are
needed reforms.
29.       In addition to these general trade reforms, agriculture requires
special attention. Colombian agriculture has considerable potential with
favorable soil and climatic conditions, proximity to major international
markets and a resourceful rural population. While yields of crops such as
rice, sugar and coffee are high by international standards, there is substan-
tial potential in a variety of other products which can be realized through
investments in technology, infrastructure and marketing, and through policy
improvements. The sector accounts for 20% of GDP, provides about 25% of
total employment, and contributes some two-thirds of the export revenues,
including one-half of total exports constituted by coffee. Imports of agri-
cultural products represented 7.5% of total imports in 1983, following a
growing trend from 1970, approximately 30% of which imports are accounted for
by wheat. Within non-coffee agriculture, an export-oriented segment
(bananas, flowers, sugar, tobacco, rice, cotton, etc.) accounts for roughly



- 10 -
28% of agricultural GDP and covers 19% of the area under cultivation; an
import substitution part (mainly cereals) contributes approximately 18% to
agricultural GDP and uses more than 25% of the area under cultivation, and a
domestic sector (potato, yucca, plantain, etc.) produces mostly for home
consumption.
30.       In addition to coffee policy (Annex 8), government interventions in
the sector have included: (i) export restrictions, import policies and price
supports for import-competing products; (ii) import and price policies for
inputs; (iii) credit policy; and (iv) public investments and institutional
aspects. Export restrictions have been in effect, although they have been in
the process of being lifted over the past year. Import substitution crops
enjoy protection through the import controls of the Government's marketing
agency, IDEMA, which until recently has had a monopoly in their international
trade. IDEMA also sets minimum guaranteed support prices for several import
crops, which has led to financial costs ultimately covered by the Central
Government.
31.       Agricultural machinery, fertilizers, pesticides and seeds are
largely imported and represent more than 40% of farm budgets for some crops
such as sorghum, rice, cotton and potato. Approximately two-thirds of the
total costs of compound fertilizers and pesticides are imported materials.
Installed capacity of compound products and most urea imports are controlled
by two companies, and some 50% of their distribution by Caja Agraria and
FEDERACAFE. Over 70% of production and distribution of pesticides is con-
trolled by six firms, reflecting the internationally oligopolistic structure
of the industry. Import duties involving a tariff for each category (around
20% on average in 1984) plus a surcharge of up to 18%, and licensing for the
agricultural inputs and machinery provide additional protection to the
domestic industry. Importers have also incurred additional fiaiancial charges
(about 8% p.a. of the c.i.f. import price) due to an obligatory system of
delayed import payments (minimum of six months for fertilizer and pesticides
and three years for capital goods in 1984) at the exchange rate prevailing at
the time of payment.
32.       Agricultural credit has been made available during recent years via
a system of forced credit under which private banks are required to contrib-
ute to an agricultural fund (FFAP) receiving interest rates well below market
rates. Financial intermediaries can draw from this fund for agricultural
lending at rates which were often negative in real terms until recent
reforms. The Government has also made available subsidized interest rates
for storage of agricultural commodities (bonos de prenda). These subsidies,
in contrast with FFAP subsidies, are partially financed by direct monetary
emission, and are enjoyed by a small number of producers and processors.
33.       The participation of public investment directly or indirectly bene-
fitting agriculture in total public investment has decreased dramatically
since 1970. Agriculture-related public investment as a proportion of total
public investment was 25% in 1970, 12% in 1975 and only 8% in 1985. At the
same time important increases in personnel took place, implying lower levels
of capital funds available for each job created. The Ministry's capacity to
direct agricultural investments and policy is also at issue.



- 11 -
B. Constraints to Performance
34.       After expanding at satisfactory rates of above 4% during most of
the seventies, the growth rate in agriculture fell to only 1.3% during
1980-84. While in the seventies export growth was a very important source of
growth, in the more recent period export performance has had a negative
impact. During the first half of the seventies agricultural growth was based
on the dynamism of non-coffee exports which expanded at an average annual
rate of nearly 10% in real terms. In the second half of the seventies the
coffee boom became the driving force while non-coffee exports decreased its
expansion to less than 7% per annum. In contrast, during 1981-84 coffee
exports have been greatly affected by negative factors depressing the inter-
national markets while non-coffee exports have shown a negative growth rate.
The decline of coffee and non-coffee exports explains almost 80% of the fal'.
of agricultural GDP growth that took place in the 1981-84 period.
35.       Three sets of forces explain the decline in exports and overall
performance and provide bases for medium-term adjustments. First, unfavor-
able international conditions for agricultural commodities implied a rather
dramatic fall in prices of commodities exported by Colombia. Coffee exports
suffered a drastic decline in 1981 as indicated earlier. Sugar exports have
declined substantially mainly because of prevailing protectionist policies in
the USA and European Community countries. Exports of cotton fiber and fresh
meats have also suffered large reductions in the early 1980s due in part to
unfavorable external market conditions. Second, macroeconomic policies in
the latter part of the seventies led to a significant appreciation of the
exchange rate and to a reduced emphasis on export promotion.
36.       Third,. trade and agricultural policies described in the previous
section have had a critical impact especially on the export-oriented sector.
Export restrictions, aimed inter alia at assuring minimum domestic
availability, have hurt the export potential of certain crops such
as rice and cocoa. Inadequate supply of imported inputs and
capital goods and lack of access of agricultural exports to export
promotion schemes have also impaired the development of agricul-
tural exports. Import restrictions and support prices for the
import substituting crops have provided some incentives to the
sector, although these efforts have meant price distortions in
favor of import substitution, and import inflexibility contributing
to inflation. The degree of such distortion and its coverage in
Colombia, however, has been moderate compared to other countries.
Support prices in 1985 for various commodities were between 25% and
45% above international c.i.f. prices including port charges and
transportation, although market prices represent somewhat higher
protection via the import controls.
Coffee policy and incentives have affected the relative profit-
ability of other products. Following the 1976-80 coffee price boom
and the technological advances in coffee production, the implied
incentives for non-coffee exports have been an area of concern.
Future non-coffee development would depend on coffee incentives
being kept within reasonable levels--given international market
prospects for coffee-and on direct incentives for diversification;



-12-
recent international events, however, have made domestic price
increases for coffee inevitable.
Given the interest rate subsidy for the FFAP funds, excess demand
and arbitrary allocations among agricultural producers of these
resources and increased administrative costs for banks and other
financial intermediaries result. Furthermore, the situation com-
bined with the lack of dynamism of Caja Agraria (an institution
designed to serve small producers), has implied that small pro-
ducers have been mostly unable to obtain adequate credit. Another
problem is related to the lack of flexibility of the agricultural
credit system which has caused credit to be concentrated in short-
term loans (approximately 60%), largely because interest rates for
long-term loans are required to be constant throughout the period
of the loan. Finally, evidence from the 1970-84 period suggests
that the storage credit subsidy, originally intended to induce
greater price stability, might have actually exacerbated commodity
price fluctuations.
The notable reduction of government investments in agriculture
since the mid-1970s and inadequate institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture to direct these investments have had a
detrimental effect on production conditions. A significant
reversal of this trend would be justified in view of the sector's
potential to contribute to growth and employment generation. The
composition of investment would also require more careful reviews
than in the past. The Ministry's institutional capacity for policy
analysis and execution need to be significantly strengthened.
PART 1V - THE LOM
A. Loan History and Objectives
37.       The loan continues support of the Government's macroeconomic and
trade adjustment program spelt out in Part II. It helps to extend the
adjustment process in the trade and agriculture area, and to address the
medium-term issues raised in Part III. Discussions with the Government have
i-._l-ed issues affecting trade and agricultural development (Report No.
`93i-CO dated April 20, 1984) and agricultural strategy (Report No. 4275-CO
dated January 31, 1983). The loan was appraised in September 1985. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in December, 1985. The Colombian delegation
was led by Jorge Ospina Sardi, Director of DNP. Supplementary loan data are
provided in Annex 3.
38.       This operation would underpin policy reforms at a critical point in
the adjustment process when its effects on resource allocation are being
felt, and when temporary increases in coffee earnings need to be handled.
The loan is intended to reinforce a package of actions by the Government
(Annex 7) and to support policy monitoring and the mobilization of external
private financing for Colombia. Envisioned is a deepening of reforms
previously 7nitiated in trade policy and macroeconomic management, and an
extension of the program to the sectoral level through reforms in agriculture
designed to restore the sector's competitiveness. In addition to adjustments



- 13 -
in fiscal, monetary, exchange rate, investment and external borrowing, and
medium-term trade policies discussed in Part II, the following trade and
agricultural areas are addressed: (a) import liberalization; (b) tariff
reform; (c) export policy; (d) agricultural input trade policy; (e)
agricultural output trade policy; (f) coffee policy; (g) credit policy; (h)
public investment in the sector; and (i) institutional strengthening.
B. Measures Supported by the Loan (Annex 4)
39.       Import Liberalization.  The number of items under the free license
regime was increased by 1,135 during the course of 1985. With these actions
the share of free imports reached 56% of the total value of imports in
December 1985 from just over 30% at the beginning of the year. (Free imports
include imports under the free license regime, imports under export promotion
schemes, imports under international agreements, e.g., Andean Group, and
through free ports, and non-reimbursable imports primarily goods financed by
medium- and long-term foreign loans and private investment). Subsequently,
an additional 653 items have been moved to the free license regime of which
more than half belong to the finished category. Consequently the share of
free imports in the total has reached 67Z by February. This share is
expected to increase to 69% by April and it is envisaged to be maintained and
reviewed in November 1986 for further actions. During the recent process of
liberalization the number of prohibited items has declined from 828 (17% of
the total) at the beginning of 1985 to 119 at effectiveness of the TPED Loan
and to 69 (1.4% of total) at present.
40.       In line wwith the gradual liberalization of the import regime the
real depreciation of the exchange rate and the improvement of the foreign
exchange situation, the level of import approvals was increased during 1985.
Initially, the monthly budget for approvals of imports that are not extern-
ally financed was set at US$250 million per month, implying an annual import
level, inclusive of externally financed imports, of US$4.0 billion, the same
as in 1984. The monthly budget for approvals was increased to US$300 million
from about the middle of the year. In all, total import approvals, including
externally financed imports, reached close to US$4.7 billion in 1985, or 17%
more than in 1984. Given the lag between approvals and importation, import
arrivals were only slightly above the 1984 level, while import payments were
lower than in 1984 because of a requirement introduced at the end of 1984 to
maintain a minimum period before credit repayment. With the strengthening of
the foreign exchange situation and the normalization of commercial credit
lines, this requirement has been abolished effective January 1, 1986. For
1986, non-oil imports are expected to increase by about 15% over the 1985
level.
41.       Tariff Reform.  The import tariff regime was significantly rationa-
lized in the course of 1985. Through the reduction of peak tariffs and the
elimination of many ad hoc tariff discounts, tariff dispersion was reduced
to a standard deviation of 16% in 1985 (from 29% in 1984) while the weighted
average nominal tariff level was reduced to 28% in 1985 (from 36% in 1984).
Import tariff surcharges, including a temporary component of 8%, currently
amount to up to 18% on top of the 28% tariff level. Actual collections of
.duties, inclusive of surcharges, however, amounted to only close to 20% of
total value of imports. Inefficiencies of customs and the exemption from



*                                               - 14 -
duties and surcharges of most public sector imports explain the divergence
between nominal rates of duties and surcharges, and collections as a share of
total imports.  Further rationalization of the duty regime and strengthening
of customs administration would be required if Colombia is to successfully
move further in reducing dependence on the license regime to protect domestic
industry.  Progress in these areas would be assessed in the course of the
supervision of the TAP Loan and during the November 1986 review.
42.       Export Policy.  The Government has been simplifying the access to
duty concessions on imports for exports, and significantly reducing the
restrictions to exports.  In 1985 the number of items subject to restric-
tions, including prior approvals (vistos buenos), has been reduced from 729
to 175. (Within this total, the number of explicitly prohibited items was
reduced from 93 to zero). Most of the remaining restrictions represent non-
economic concerns. The Government has agreed in principle to take the
following further actions. For the 70 items subject to prior approval of the
environmental agency, INDERENA, a permanent register of producers and
exporters would be established rather than requiring prior approval for each
export transaction. The list of items subject to prior approval by the
Ministry of Agriculture (31) would be significantly reduced. Finally, in the
case of rice and cotton, which are subject to export quotas, complete
liberalization could have unacceptable fiscal implications since both have
relatively high levels of CERT (indirect tax rebates for exporters); the
Government agrees in principle, subject to further review of legal implica-
tions, to allow these crops to be exported freely in excess of established
quota levels without CERT payments. At the end of 1985, the Government
reduced the average of CERT rates applicable to exports, reducing both dis-
persion and the number of rates applied from 7 to 4 levels. This measure was
justified by the sigificant real depreciation of the exchange rate achieved
during 1985. Even with the lower CERT rates, the real effective exchange
rate (i.e., including the export incentive) is estimated to roughly equal the
1975 level.
43.       The Government has also extended access for farmers to the PV/SIEX
schemes, which allow import duty exemptions and drawback and automatic access
to imported raw materials and intermediate goods used in export activities.
In practice, since in agriculture this has been implementable only in cases
where the importer and exporter is essentially the same entity, a large part
of agriculture was excluded on account of the complex linkages between
importers and exporters. Only banana and flower producers with a continuous
export record have benefited from the scheme. A more liberal interpretation
of procedures established by INCOMEX in 1985 has now begun to allow more
export-oriented crops, especially rice and cotton in addition to bananas and
flowers, to benefit by enabling producers' associations who import the inputs
and export the products to access these schemes.
44.       Agricultural Inputs.  In 1985 about 85% of fertilizer imports were
freed from licensing as opposed to none previously. Total import duties
(tariffs plus surcharges) were also reduced for fertilizers from a weighted
average of 23% to 13% of the c.i.f. value mainly via an exemption from the 8%
surcharge. For pesticides total duties were reduced from a weighted average
of Z9% to just over 23%. For agricultural machinery the decrease was from a
weighted average of 36Z to 32%. Finally the requirement of having minimum
periods for repayment of external credits has been eliminated. These
measures reduce effective protection to local producers of agricultural
Inputs. At the same time, trade barriers are being reduced both for raw



- 15 -
materials to supplier industries and for finished fertilizers, pesticides and
agricultural imaplements. During 1986 a study will examine the effects of
changes in import restrictions on the effective protection of industries
supplying agricultural inputs (see Annex 6) to guide further adjustments to
tariffs and import licensing. Beginning in 1986 the Government intends to
phase out the 8% surcharge on imports imposed by Law 50, 1984.
45.       Output Pricing.  As a first step, the Government has terminated
IDEMA's monopoly in wheat imports, while interventions have been reduced in
the cases of barley and soya. The private sector can now import the bulk of
these commodities directly within global quotas. Support price increases
announced for the first semester of 1986 have been substantially less than
the domestic inflation rates. The annual rate of growth of the support price
for wheat announced for the first semester of 1986 was 16% versus 36% for the
second semester of 1985, for soybeans 9.7% versus 41%, for corn 15.5% versus
33% and for barley 16% versus 36%. Domestic wholesale prices of commodities
subject to import quotas, however, were still growing faster than domestic
inflation and above peso international prices in the first semester of 1985.
Wholesale prices of soybeans, corn and barley, for example, increased at an
annual rate of approximately 35% while dry beans prices increased more than
80% annual rate; the wholesale price of wheat increased by only 20%. Support
prices announced for the second semester of 1986 are below the inflation
rate.
46.       Given their existing level of protection, domestic prices of the
import-competing crops would not increase in real terms on account of import
and price support policies. Understandings for the second tranche envisage
that the 1986-87 support prices would not, by and large, increase beyond the
rate of inflation. Imports would be allowed by private importers for all
commodities (in addition to wheat, barley and soya) subject to global quotas,
if necessary. Import quotas would be adjusted so as to avoid real price
increases for wheat, beans, barley, soybeans and sorghum. Import quotas
would be distributed among importers in a less discretionary and more market-
based manner than at present: the private sector would import, directly or
indirectly, at least 80% of the quota, which would be negotiated by the
traders amongst themselves with minimal government intervention. IDEMA would
continue to reduce its participation in domestic purchases and storage.
47.       Coffee Policy.  Under the Agricultural Diversification Loan
(2453-CO) an understanding was reached with FEDERACAFE on the incentives for
diversification. Since then a consensus has been established with the
Federation and the Government inter alia on not raising the domestic real
prices of coffee (see Annex 8). World coffee prices, however, have increased
very sharply in recent months, and it appears that they will remain high
during 1986 in view of shortfalls in the Brazilian production. This alters
the assumptions on which the previous consensus on domestic prices was
based. In view of this new situation the Federation has decided to raise the
internal price by about 37% in real terms during the 1986 coffee year. Given
the increase of international prices and the rapid peso depreciation, never-
theless, the share of the domestic producer in the external price is still
below 45%, one of the lowest shares historically. Other measures carried out
to maintain a balance between coffee and non-coffee production are: (i)
elimination of the subsidy for fertilizers and for coffee plantings to coffee
growers; (ii) incentives for stumping the high yielding caturra variety, both
to postpone output modestly and to protect long term yields; and (iii)



- 16 -
increase funds for coffee d versification. The domestic price increases were
necessary inter alia to prevent large-scale smuggling and the consequent loss
of participation of the Federation in the market arising from a large diver-
gency between domestic and international prices.
48.       In order to avoid price signals for overproduction, a temporary
variable bonus scheme has been introduced, linking the temporary bonuses over
and above the guaranteed price in a proportion to any further increases in
the external price. The policy of a variable bonus if strengthened and
implemented, could make price policy more flexible in allowing downward
adjustments in coffee receipts of producers when world prices fall. The
National Coffee Fund is expected to remain self-financed and unsubsidized;
the Federation would lend to and borrow from the Government according to the
cycles of coffee revenues. Under the proposed loan the Federation has pre-
sented the key elements of coffee strategy and has agreed to follow-up on
this matter periodically. Current policies in handling increased coffee
revenues are satisfactory, and continued vigilence on the part of the Govern
ment in sustaining incentives for non-coffee activities in the future would
be needed.
49.       Credit Policy.  The Bank and the Government have been analyzing the
financial sector policies. In agriculture the following measures have been
analyzed with a view to reducing distortions: (a) increase the average rates
of interest associated with the agricultural fund (FFAP loans) to approach
gradually market rates; (b) introduce partially variable interest rates; (c)
improve the margins of financial intermediaries; and (d) reduce the subsidy
to interest rates for -bonos de prenda (storage). While an across-the-board
approach is eventually necessary to improve credit policies, two policy
changes have been carried out immediately as a first step towards reducing
reliance on forced credit. First the average rate of interest on FFAP to
borrowers has been raised by 1.5X on average, and thus the effective rate
became positive in real terms. Second, a system of partially variable
interest rates, linked to the market CDT rates, has been introduced on most
medium- and long-term FFAP loans. The second tranche would seek adjustments
of the FFAP and other agricultural rates to make them more competitive. Sub-
sequent operations in agriculture are envisaged to address further the issue
of phasing out the system of forced credit and improving the access to credit
for small farmers.
50.       Public Investments.  The Government plans to upgrade public invest-
ments in agriculture, to strengthen institutions and carry out studies.
Based on experience of the past decade an investment program for the subsec-
tors has been agreed upon. The 1986-87 public investment budget would regain
its 1983 level in real terms. The 1986-87 program has been found satisfac-
tory based on economic criteria, and it gives priority to: (a) projects
already underway; (b) high-priority projects for which implementation is
about to begin; (c) a few selected projects currently under negotiation; (d)
priority investments under the National Rehabilitation Plan, a multi-sectoral
program to increase investments in neglected rural areas; and (e) some
resources to enhance the investment and operations of the decentralized
agencies of the MOA. This program can be implemented without significant
increases in personnel-as human resources are presently underutilized for
lack of funds--and many of the investment activities, especially in infra-
structure, will be subcontracted with the private sector.



- 17 -
51.       The 1986-87 program gives priority to irrigation rehabilitation and
small-scale irrigation development by HIMAT, agricultural research by ICA,
and land titling, colonization, and agricultural credit for agrarian reform
beneficiaries by INCORA. Additional funds would be allocated to the multi-
sectoral activities of the Regional Development Corporations, the DRI, and to
improve agricultural statistics, and better control of pests and animal and
plant diseases. No major new investments would be started in 1986 that are
not already appraised and financed, and those in 1987-88 would be reviewed
before the second tranche, in accordance to the criteria indicated in the
previous paragraph. A three-year investment program is envisioned to be
reviewed by mid-1987.
52.       Institutionatl Strengthening.  The Government has decided to streng-
then agricultural planning by establishing a national agricultural policy
board chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. It would be supported by a
technical unit of high level staff and be responsible for periodically
reviewing the medium-term agricultural strategy, including the following
areas: agricultural credit, public sector investment, marketing of agricul-
tural products, and price policy. The Government has decided to upgrade the
planning and policy analysis capabilities of the MOA, and its capacity to
identify, prepare and monitor projects. Before the second tranche release,
the Government would develop a plan to reorganize the OPSA of the MOA. In
addition, measures would be taken to improve the financial efficiency of
MOA's decentralized agencies and their budgetary, monitoring and control
capabilities. OPSA and the DNP would contract international consultants for
strengthening policy analysis and for arranging short-term training courses
and international study visits for their staff. A schedule of actions was
finalized during negotiations.
53.       Part of the loan (US$2 million) has been set aside for the above-
mentioned technical assistance component and to finance specific studies to
be completed by OPSA and the DNP before second tranche release (see Annex
6). The studies are: (a) analysis of demand and supply elasticities for
agricultural products and inputs to estimate the response of the sector to
policy changes; (b) possibilities of increasing the internally-generated
resources of public agricultural institutions; (c) a feasibility study on a
line of credit for agricultural marketing and processing; (d) the cost of
production of selected crops; and (e) effective protection of selected agri-
cultural inouts. These more detailed studies are necessary in order to
understand -more quantitatively the potential for deepening the policy reforms
currently proposed. The method of selecting consultants, timetable and fees
were reviewed during negotiations. Selected staff of the MOA and DNP would
participate in these studies so as to receive on-the-job training.
C. Expected Effects of Policy Changes
54.       Lower Farm Costs.  Given the high import dependence of agricultural
inputs, the reduction of import harriers would reduce prices to the farmer.
Lower tariffs, more liberal import licensing and the elimination of foreign
credit payment periods are expected to reduce prices on the order of 15% on
average for agricultural inputs. Cost reductions are expected to be passed
on to farmers given that: (a) internal distribution of agricultural



- 18 -
machinery is competitive; and (b) price controls in fertilizers and pesti-
cides would take into account reductions in producers' costs, which should
not increase given the excess capacity in these industries. Furthermore,
introduction of competition from imported finished agricultural inputs is
likely to reduce prices further.
55.       Increase Production and Employment.  Productivity gains are also
expected from an acceleration of coftee diversification, a reduction in dis-
tortions against agriculture, the recuperation of public investments and the
depreciation of the real exchange rate. For reasonable supply elasticities,
the indicated fall in the average cost of production alone could increase
agricultural growth by over 2% on an annual basis. Despite some offsetting
effect of the increased use of farm machinery, the effect of increased output
on employment could be of the order of 25-30 thousand additional jobs (0.2%
of the labor force).
56.       Lower Food Prices and Inflation.  This is expected to result from
lower farm costs and a change in the import policy of food commodities. A
reduction in the monopoly of IDEMA and a change in support price policy
should reduce the price of wheat and at least stabilize the price of other
cereals and legumes. Assuming an agricultural supply elasticity of 0.5 and a
food demand elasticity of -0.3, the reduction in the cost of production and
the other measures indicated above should decrease the food prices by 4Z and
thus the overall CPI by close to two percentage points.
57.       Exports and Balance of Payments.  The adjustment of the exchange
rate and changes in agricultural commodity pricing are expected to increase
the relative profitability of exports. Increased imports of inputs would
lower input prices and stimulate exports. The net effect of the measures,
including increased export earnings and increased importation of inputs and
machinery, is expected to be significantly positive during 1986-88 (Annex 5).
58.       Social Costs and Benefits.  Expected social benefits would be sig-
nificant since improved agricultural performance would assist the poorer com-
munities in Colombia as producers and consumers. Small producers (farmers
with less than 20 hectares) constitute an important proportion of the farm
population (around one million producers), and they mainly produce import
substitutes and traditional crops such as potatoes and other tubers. Some of
the proposed policies may reduce the protection currently afforded to these
producers, which could cause a reduction in their income if shifting
resources to other activities is difficult. This problem, however, would be
mitigated by employment-generation expected from export-oriented activities
and the increase in investment and cost reductions. Another potential cost
for the farm labor force may be associated with increased mechanization that
will occur as a consequence of increasing imports of agricultural machinery.
The expansion of production, however, should compensate for this substitution
effect.
D. Risks
59.       Import liberalization of agricultural inputs, implements and
machinery could reduce the protection to the domestic producers of these



- 19 -
goods, and hurt producers who are unable to adjust to the change. This risk,
however, may be minor given the prospect that the domestic producers would
also benefit from the lower cost of imported raw materials; moreover the con-
tribution of this subsector to employment is relatively small. Furthermore,
lower input prices would expand demand, thus enabling a more efficient
utilization of excess capacity present in the pesticides and (to a lesser
extent) the fertilizer industries.
60.       A potential risk could also concern the economic and social effects
of the measures affecting the import substituting crops produced by small
farmers. This possible risk, however, would be mitigated by the gradual
nature of the proposals and the prospect that the loan would induce lower
costs of production through lower input prices and more government
investments.
61.      There are the usual risks concerning continuity in policy given that
a new Government will take office next year. The mechanism of two tranches
and possible future policy loans address this risk. A sizeable expansion of
foreign exchange from petroleum, coal and coffee could votentially reverse
the current export orientation for other products. The authorities, however,
believe that export incentives should not be hurt by temporary booms of
specific commodities, particularly in light of the experience with the
previous coffee boom. In the wake of recent coffee price increases, debt
prepayment is being planned for, and the real exchange rate is being
protected.
E. Loan Features and Operations
62.       A US$250 million Bank loan is proposed based on the estimated
incremental foreign exchange requirements for inputs, machinery and equipment
for the agricultural and rural sectors during 1986-87. US$198 million would
be used to finance these categories for the agricultural and rural sectors;
US$50 million would be channelled through the export account established
under the TPED Loan to finance inputs for exporters that participate in the
PV/SIEX export promotion schemes, and the balance--US$2 million-to finance
technical assistance.
63.       Contracts for the procurement of import of inputs, intermediate and
finished goods for agricultural production estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$5.0 million or more would be awarded through ICB in accordance with
Bank guidelines as in the TPED. Equipment for the technical assistance com-
ponent, estimated not to cost more than US$100,000 in total, would be through
local shopping in accordance with Bank guidelines. All other goods would be
awarded on the basis of normal commercial procurement procedures of the pur-
chasers of goods. Consulting services would be contracted in accordance w-th
Bank guidelines.
64.       The Government of Colombia would be the Borrower of the proposed
loan. The proceeds of the loan would be made available to and administered
by BOR, except tor the technical assistance component which would be made
available to the MOA and the DNP. BOR will maintain separate accounts to
record and monitor loan disbursements against payments for eligible imports
for the agricultural sector. These accounts will be audited each fiscal year



- 20 -
in accordance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank. The Government would maintain a separate account to record
the use of counterpart funds for investment.
65.       The loan proceeds would be disbursed in two tranches.  The first
tranche of US$125 million would be available upon loan effectiveness and
would comprise: (i) US$25.0 million as an initial deposit into the Export
Account for imports for exporters under the export promotion schemes;
(ii) US$99.0 million for direct and indirect imports of inputs and machinery
for the agricultural and rural sectors to be disbursed by reimbursing 30% of
payments of imports of the relevant categories, which is equivalent to the
estimated incremental imports of those categories in 1986. Of this amount up
to US$25 million would represent retroactive financing of eligible imports
incurred between January 1, 1986 and the date of lorn signing in view of
policy reforms that are in place, and the 1986 import and investment program
underway; and (iii) US$1.0 million for studies and the technical assistance
component. The second tranche of US$125 million would be released upon a
satisfactory review of second tranche conditions in early 1987, utilizing the
same criteria as in the first tranche. All disbursements under the two
tranches would be made against certified statements of expenditures. The
corresponding documentation would be retained by BOR and periodically
reviewed by Bank staff, except for the documentation pertaining to the Export
Promotion Schemes that will be periodically forwarded to the Bank.
F. Monitoring
66.       To monitor the trade and macroeconomic variables under the adjust-
ment program, the Social-Economic Committee of the Cabinet (CONPES), headed
by the President of the Republic and comprising Cabinet ministers, will meet
regularly to review progress, and to decide on appropriate actions to ensure
timely implementation. The agricultural policy reforms, the measures for
institutional strengthening and the agricultural investment program will be
periodically reviewed by OPSA and the DNP.
67.       The monitoring of the export promotion measures for agricultural
products would be based on a report to be prepared by INCOMEX at the end of
the first year of the loan regarding the use of such schemes for agricultural
exports. INCOMEX plans to report on the number of final agricultural imports
whose inputs are liberalized as well ax on the raw materials for domestic
input production set on the free list. For those products still subject to
import quotas, the value of their imports would be used to determine whether
additional imports availabilities have been adequately allocated between
finished inputs and raw materials.
69.       IDEMA would provide annual progress reports concerning its decreas-
ing participation in purchases and storage in regions of commercial agricul-
ture and on the level of imports of agricultural products. A biannual con-
trol of support prices would be made to verify that these do not increase
beyond the overall inflation rate. A monitoring of the FFAP interest rates
would be implemented. The investment program would be followed by periodic
progress reports to be issued by the MOA, and the CY1987 public agricultural
investment program and recurrent expenditures would be reviewed before the
second tranche release, relating performance and expenditures to objectives
and targets.



- 21 -
70.       Under the two tranche releases the Bank plans to review and
monitor: (1) the adequacy of the 1986-87 macroeconomic program; (ii) the
specific agreements on trade and agricultural policy reforms; and (iii)
agreement on the public sector investment and external borrowing program
(Table 2, pages 14-15). The assessment of the macroeconomic program would
take into account the findings of the IMF on stabilization, particularly as
it relates to targets on net international reserves, total credit of the
Central Bank, net credit of the Central Bank to the public sector and the
level of public sector external debt on a quarterly basis. As part of this
process, the Government would prepare and send to the Bank two reports,
summarizing the status of implementation of the program, the first in October
1986 and the second in June 1987. The first status report should also serve
as a basis for a mid-term review which in turn would form the basis for the
release of the second tranche of the loan.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERArIONS IN COLOMBIA
71.       The proposed loan, the 119th to be made to Colomlia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$5,455.2 million (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1985,
US$3,758.3 million; IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 72 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$286 million in FY84 and to US$591 million in FY85,
reflecting in part the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s and
efforts to build the pipeline. While disbursements in Colombia have been
slower than those recorded in the Latin American Region for similar projects,
concentrated efforts to overcome problems to initiate project execution have
resulted in a significant increase in disbursements during FY84 and FY85.
Improving performance of social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-
financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures and the
effects of the recently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should improve
counterpart funding, all point to a higher level of disbursements for pro-
jects in the future. IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments
of US$144.2 million in 29 enterprises and as of September 30, 1985, it held
US$67.3 million. Annex Ti contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit and IFC investments as of September 30, 1985.
72.       Since the initial loan in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia has become
quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88% of the loans made
were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its participa-
tion in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending for
irrigation and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommunica-
tions, urban development, petroleum development, export diversification,
nutrition and health. By the late 1970s, 53% of the loans made to Colombia
were for projects other than transport and power. Of the loans made since
1978, 37% were for power and transport, 15% for industry, 18% for agriculture
and irrigation, 9% for water supply, 6% for urban, 4% for telecommunications,
2% each for petroleum development and export diversification and 7% for
education, nutrition, health and multipurpose projects. The diversification
was indeed a desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader
range of Colombia's development problems. The experience gained has served



- 22 -
to identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,
thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
73.       The Bank's dialogue with the Government has focused upon the need
to mobilize additional domestic resources, to diversify and expand exports,
to develop rapidly the country's energy resources, and to free the economy
from excessive controls. The discussions involved fiscal, interest rate and
pricing policies, as well as incentives for exports and reduction in the
level of effective protection. Positive results have been obtained parti-
cularly in the power sector, where power rates were increased sharply and a
least-cost expansion was formulated and launched. Similar results have been
achieved in respect of some other public services, including appropriate
charges for water for irrigation and domestic use and petroleum prices.
74.       The Bank has been supporting the Government's efforts to increase
economic growth and exports with financial stability, raise utilization of
domestic energy sources, provide key infrastructure, and improve the living
conditions of the poor. More recently, in response to Colombia's adjustment
process the thrust of the Bank's support has shifted towards loans to finance
directly productive activities, such as agriculture and industry, support
efforts to raise productivity, income and employment, increase and diversify
exports and help develop renewable sources of energy through lending for
hydropower and arranging associated cofinancing. Loans recently approved by
the Board and in advanced stage of preparation reflect the emphasis on: (i)
increasing output rapidly; (ii) reorienting production towards exports and
efficient import-competing goods; (iii) supporting quick-yielding infrastruc-
ture investments, particularly those that enable the use of existing facili-
ties more intensively; and (iv) increasing resource mobilization.
75.       The Bank's lending in FY85 consisted of loans for agricultural
diversification, small-scale industry, petroleum, development banking, water
supply and sewerage and trade policy and export diversification totalling
US$707.5 million. The TPED Loan is designed to support the first phase of
trade policy adjustments in Colombia. In addition to the loan presented in
this report, the current program comprises the already approved loans for
public health, port rehabilitation, electricity distribution, water supply
and sewerage, rural transport and irrigation rehabilitation. Work is under-
way on projects for power and energy sector development, agricultural
technology transfer, and financial and public sector management. In infra-
structure, the Bank is stressing rehabilitation, modernization and a more
intensive use of the existing facilities in port improvement, water supply
and highways maintenance. Finally, several projects in preparation will also
support the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the popula-
tion. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural credit,
and water supply and waste, will help improve the standard of living of the
poor, while being designed to make better use of existing capacity and reduce
losses.
73.       While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related projects, in



- 23 -
addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural development, agrarian
reform, university education, water supply, rural electrification and land
erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards of the lower-
income population. In the future, it proposes to assist Colombia in develop-
ing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive sector activities
to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported programs in
education, rural development and small farm development, but is phasing out
its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional financing for
basic needs and regional integration projects.
ART VIn - UCOMqED&TTION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 27, 1986



- 24 -
AMUEX I
L*.LLLJ,                                         ?ata  1 of 6
,w          IM     :     mA NN.,a usc
NL                                t 91131.3   11".9       111.9
ORIWIU3hL                         250."5      50.5        330..
M G          C)                        ..          ..       1430.0            17n.9                     a1".5
-               ma am
CfUS of oIL am         33u)        23.0         95.0      GO e.e                                      Ms.&
,031A!n.T1Ma MOM4)    13724.0    2126.3                  21511.0
93643 Pe3Ahf  (I 0  WOT               .2         7.2        6.1                7.X7                     47.5
TOUAUI3 P36Wl1106
rAnIWA             eeeiam  C t=                           30.0
POPLAIZI     -                                             Ui
P2 3o. 23.                        134         13.7        24.2              41.0                      64.7
rma IQ. IN. AmI. 133              '5.0        60.7        73.4              91.1                     164.3
vuusmA1  AMNUCIU  CZ)
0-14 as3                         46.7        "4.         37.7              31.5                      21.2
15.44 Wu3                         50.2        51.0        56.6              57.1                     61.5
45 AM ANOW                         2.3         2.7         3.6               4.2                      7.2
P0331.4216 atom Pam (I)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0         2.0               2.4
332am                             3.7         3.2         2.7               3.                      32.7
1 Km  am  CPU Two)                  47.2        334A       2.0                30.9                     22A
*6 3NAMI 3Az3 (PU 23I)              1.4          9.7        7.3                6.0                      6.9
Go6    UCTzO   am                    3.3         2A         1.0                2.0                      1.5
v*Anl PLAl4M
ACC1P3, MOM. CT )                  ..        115.4       1924 
2   CZ 0r x31   tm                 ..         34.0    . 5.0                 45.3
b0 or ro P1O. PU. C P S
(1949 -71-100)                     100.0        n9o        117.0             103.4                    109.1
-: CAPU rSWMLl 01
CMALY  CX or E2pIo0131)          102.0        63.0       110.0             113.2                     131.I
P303D1  (CUM PS& D04)             54.0        48.0        57.0              4.4                      92.4
OF 2CM aMAL Me. MM3              26.0        24.0        25.0 /4           34.2                      34.5
O3ILD (t3  1-4) 2*13 nu              9.4         4.4        3.0                4.8                      4.7
LUZI WIMP . AT 31TR (TUN)           53.1        56.9       44.1               6.8                      *7.2
1"71   IlT. 63 CPU Tom)             93.5        70.5       53.0               59.7                     53.3
ACCES 10 5*3 snWA    (X10)
TOTAL                             30.0        63.0        92.0 /c           43.3                     70.2
DJ3*                              54.9        U.0        io0. 7             76.5                     69.4
UIUL                               hJ         23.0        79.0 7&           44.2                     57.0
A=33 TO 11CSh    DISPOSAL
CX Of POPMLAXTOM)
TOTAL                              ..         47.0       45.0 IC            54.3                      S9.4
U"                                 ..         75.0      ioo.o 7-            73.4                     bS.
3U3*L                              ..          3.0        4.0               25.5                     47.6
POPULATIOM P11 FSI.AN             240.0       2330.0     1710.0 /a          1909.7                   1070.6
POP. Xt NUI     PER"              4220.0 It   730.0       3oo.0 -            606.2                    769.5
Pop. U IDSPITAL 3m
TOTAL                            360.0       430.0       50.0              362.0                     326.3
311                                ..        380.0       490.0             422.0                     201.9
RDEAL                              ..          ..          ..             2714.7                    4519.7
*25O31ms 1n HPITAL  D                ..         22.9       29.8 Id            27.1                     20.0
4Vn1g SLl2 Or HOUCS3L0
TOTAL                              ..          5.7 
Dlm                                ..          45 1        .
RURAL                              ..          5..9.
AVUMI N0. O0 P1101/30
TOTAL                              ..          I..
Vann                               ..          1.4         ..
RURaL                              ..         12.4        . 
PIIUC.TAG1 oP DWULLUIS Ux ILEC.
TOTAL                             47.0 /h    S4.I /t
UNA1                              S3.0 7ii    37.5         ..
RURAL                              xo 7      13.2k



- 25-                                                   AKNB 
T A-R L 7  U                                  Paxe  2  of  6
1960k      1970L  EIUTUIAl~          U. 41C44 CARo
AOJUS?RD UOlUUIIJ ATI OS
RDIMt  TOTAL                     77.0       103.0      130.0              106.7                    101.9
MALZ                   77.0       107.0      12.0              108.3                    106.2
FEMLC                  77.0      110.0       132.0             10.6                      97.5
SECOlMAT TOTL                    12.0        23.0       45.0              '4.2                      57.5
WALR                   13.0       23.0        45.0              *2.7                     ".9
WNL                    11.0       24.0        51.0              44.9                     50.0
VOCATOUM.I (1 01 UCOWAR!)          30.5 11    20.2        21.6 /d            13.3                     21.0
PIPIL-TEACE RA3*7
P3111                            36.0        38.0       31.0               29.9                     23.1
SICOWAr                          11.0        17.0       20.0               16.7                     19.1
PAXUSN   CARS/T05ANDS PO      U     5.7        11.2        18.6 Id           46.0                     54.2
RnIo REcRITNIOSN  rPOP            125.1       104.3      131.7-             328.3                    170.7
TV REOSIVEUTusAUP0P                9.5        38.1    U 6.9 /c             112.4                    149.3
urnAP C"DM= GSVZRAL
umEaN) c rU0
? 111UUUDPOPDATIU                 50.0       108.7       41.0               81.1                     97.0
UINDA AOUA L   A3IcRW               ..          ..         2.6                2.4                      2.7
70A  LABOR FOUO (TUOUS)          4727.0      6353.0     9064.0
FEMAL CPERT)                     19.2        24.8       24.6               23.6                     36.3
AImCLTh  CPERCT)                 51.4        37.9       25.8 Ic            31.4                     40.S
SoOsIR {PETr)                    19.2        21.0       21.2I              24.3                     23.3
PAUICPATIOU RA2E (PERUT)
TOTAL                            30.0        29.9       33.0               33.5                     43.1
KAZ                              48.8        45.1       49.4               51.3                     55.1
FEMALS                           11.5        14.8       16.1               15.9                     31.4
caN=OIC    OCE   RMAIO              1.7         1.6         1.3               1.3                      0.9
133MW? oP RIATE INCON
RWIVED ST
RICUST 5S or ucIRI               41.2 lb    31.9         . 
RiGST ZOS or  usx m              62J7 7F    60.1 _        .                 ....
LO=GEST 20S or zoGsU.lS          67.7         0.1 *-
oST4  OS F  DS                    6J /l.1   10.1          .
-OV sr c-
TMT   ASS0LMZ IOVEETV INCOSM
LEVEL (UsS PER cA?nA
URlmN                             ..          ..       214.0 Id           288.3
RL                                ..          ..        197.0 Id          165.3
I        ATED RELATV  POUR!! ICN
LEVEL CUSS PE  CAIA)
..                                            ..       267.0 fd           519.8
RAL                               ..          ..        122.0 7I          359.7
csTrTD POP. BMW
POVErTr isCoE LEVEL (I)
URN                               ..          ..        34.0 /d
RUmAL                             ..          ..
.. wr AYAuAL
.NOr APPICUL
N O T C S
-Tb grop avrage for each indicator are popuULiou.eeLghted aieettc maem. Covera  0   one
mong the Indceators depe_cs on avalebLty of de and In not unfor .
/b   Unleag othbriwe noted. 'Data for 1960" retor to any year betwon 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970" b-et
1969 and 1971; and data for 'Most Recent Eatimec" between 1981 and 1963.
/c  l9B0. /d 1077; /o 1978; /f 1962; !A 1973; /b 1964; /I Including teacher trainig at the tertlary
level; -a  EcZooa ly  actt  population.
.i. 1985



- 26 - 
Page 3 of 6
DEFINONS OF SOCIAL INDECATORS
|ote, Although the data are dramwn fromn sourms gener lly judged the moat authontauve and relablc. it should aso be noted that they may not be inhernatonaly
compaabit becaue of the lack o1f sdardized defnitions and concr usd by diffeent countrne in colectcng tht data The data are, nonetheLk, usful to
descnbt ordcn of magntude indiate trends, ad charctenie certin major difercnces betwen ecountnes.
The referenCe Voups ar 1t) tbe smate country group of the sbject country and i2 a country group with somewhat higher a vea  incom than the country
group of the subject country (excpt for -High Income Oil Exportes  group where -Midl Inome North Afrca and Middle East" is cboen because o stronger
usc-cultural danitiesl. In the reference group data the averagcs are popuution uciabted anthuseuc ncams for ach idicator and shown only when molonty
of the countrs ins group hu data for tha mndictor. Siam the coverag ocountries among the ndictuon depends on the availtility of dait andsa not uforni.
i  cauuon must be cereisd in relag averas ofone indircat to another. These averaes ar only useful in companrng the value done imnicator at a utwe anong
L the rouyw and referents groups.
AREA (thousand sq.knL)                                            Crd eiJsh Rate (pershohusmuld-Numberorlive births in the year
Toeul-Total surfacc area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dara.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Crue Death Rate (per tzhousdj-Number of dcaths in the year
Agrkcarwt-Estimate of agriultural area tusd temporarily or        per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1913 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitcebcn gardens or to  Gros AReprdcdoa Ra-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usualy five-year averages ending
GNI PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, alculated by same conversion metbod as World       5Iifr Planuiqr-Acceptors. Ana (theusaudiJ-Annual mum-
Bank Atlas (1981493 basis); 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENEtGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       FSdiJy Phniaut4Iss (percenr of wled wa n)-The percn-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage or married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any formn of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15 49. althougb for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISIICS                                   groups
Total Popuffaim. Mid-Yer (hatsaudr)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NJTRMON
and 1983 data.
:-^rr   Populadw (percent of tejJzi)- Ratio of urban to total    *Index ofFod Product Per Capita ( 1969-TI a I00-inde dof per
population.dpfferent (piretitioran   of urban armma etcom         capita annual production of all food commoditis. Production
abiputi ofdata amont countities 1960. 1970u and m983 dataf        excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of datamamong ountries 1970.an1983data.include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Ppuuo Ptojenioa                                                   which are edible and contin nutrients (e g. coffee and tea are
Populatnon in year 200-The projection of population for 2000      excluded): they comprise ccreals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights 196145. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
assumpuons until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Suwp  of Calories (Percent gf revqirenses)-Comput-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supphes available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fcrtility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement klvel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = I I In such a populaton. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
tize was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health constdenng environmental temperature, body weights,
the populauon in the year 2000. and the ate of decline of fcrtility  ate and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                        waste at household level: 191. 1970 and 1982 data.
Populaiwon Momerrum- Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capa Supply of Proein (grm  per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per dav Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above Requirements for all countnes established by USDA
unity. Tht momentum of a population in the year i is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the uitimate stationary populauon to the population m  day and 210 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year :. given the assumption that fertility remauns at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Populats    DeNsity                                               average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer 1100 hec-      Suppil: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tare.) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                  Per Capit-a Proe  Supply From Auiud and Pbse- -Protein supply
Per sq.knt. agricuftwat land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Populati  .Age Structure (percet)--Children tO-14 yearsp. work-   Cil (ages 1-4) Deark Rate (per thousand)-- Number ofdeaths of
ing age (I 5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group tn a given year. For most developing countries data denved
Popuation Growth Raze (percexl-oroal--Annual growth rates of      from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Population Gratdi  Rate (percenr)-arban---Annual growth rates     Life Expectancy at Birthk (yers)- Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing pattcrns of mortality for all people



- 27 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of b
at the hU  of of its birdt we to way the -  thirougout its llf;  AljueAr  atio - prb.wy. ,d ae   dap-Total students en-
1960.1970 and 1983 datL                                        rold in primay and scondary level divided by numben of
luuf  Meorumbt  Roe (pe r*m)-Numbr of nfan who die              tecers In the corrsonding kveL
before reahg oam yar of lp   tho usad live birhs in a give
year, 190, 1970 od 1983 daU                                     CONSUMPTION
Aca- v Si*  Wow (pww                       M"   W, aid          Auseqr Cm's (per ebmead                     lapeuie. nger Cars co_n-
_wd-Nubr oI                                                     prope (l u   and n) wpe motor Cars  tiDng le  than eight peron: exclude ambul-
scms to dfe water supply (inude uatd surfac watn or            ncas. bhea   and militaur veiclsL
untatd but ---onmamt  wat  such  dtt from Vactd I               AR& Reca a (pr thowesadpapsimtiso-All. types of recris
bor_holes, sng ad sai18ty wdls) a p=ntage of dr Qrt            for radio broadcas to gnal public per thousad of population;
tive populions. In a uban a   a public fountain or s_ndpost    ex        :ladoncsed rceivers in counties and il years. wben
loced not mom ta 2D  mOm fIo a houe may be conider re   ation of radio se was in effect; data tor recent years may
s baing within reasonable ior tht bot   In rurat ar             not be cmparable since most countries abolih  lising.
rao ablesswould imply that the housewifleormemnbersorthe   TVWsmp,                                6cvsfobrae
bouelhold do not1    to uped a dspmpc3onag pu of t bday        tolcend pVur per thouup ppru-TV rateon      ers for broadcT
in feshn tke famc hpily'  p                          r                            tho~ua  popuao;ecds unlicesd TV
Ac feubsg t_  fie mqmr (pca                                            incut as d, yea  when registration of TV st was
ad wad-Number of people (total. urban and ruralerd by                 u 
excreta disposal    perental   f their respecti  populatios.k
Ecre  dispoal may incude the coulction and diposayl wFt or     ag -rclatm o  daily gene  itee  newsppr deind as a
ndtout tmatmL of human excet ad wasnoter by watr-               periodical pubbctnon d n pfimayily to rcdig gnal news.
bore systems or the uw of pit prvies and similar isalaons       It is considered to be daly if it appeat Lest four tmc a wvck.
p-etim pmr Phpsic--opution divdked by aber of prac-            C        AAwd Aat.Amt p  C4r iS per Yi_-Based on the
asing phyidans qualified fom  a medical schoolat university klvel  number of tdet sold during the year. incudig admisons to
Pp.lra p_r Neavg Pesn-Pulation divided by numnber of            drive-in cinema and mobile imitL
praccg male and female  raduat nures asstant nurses,            LABI FORCE
practc  nuse and nursing auwilires.
_Ai-e  pm r      a  a'~   -ae.oI  wg_   _   *w-irtmio           ,-  LaM  Rac (rhuua -conoznicaly active persons, in-
totaL urbn- , and  rual) dividind  by th d respective    u   n    umeludo  armed forces and unemployed but cwluding houwwve.
hoptal hbe  anabl a  din         by thpri  ep d  l      o       students, etc. coverng population of al ags Defimtions in
hoqpddos   c. Ybd    in                                                couni  ar not comparl  1960.1970 and 1983 data.
prmanenly staffd by at  Wt one physicisn Estblsments prov-      F_ (prce   -iimalc lbor force as peromage of total lbor
iding prncipaly custodial car are not inluded. Rura bospitals.  faoe.
however. inlude bhath and medicalcnters not pemanenty  taffed  A _daMw  (perwt)-Labor fore in farming, fonsty. huntmig
by a physi an (but by a medicd as_it  nuse, niidwf  etc.)      and fishing as percentage of tota labor fome; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-paient acommodation and provide a limited rang   da
Of medird filitis                                               IAsry (perceat)-Labor force in mining. constuction. manu-
Admdssim per Hrepa Brd-Totat number of admisions to or          facturing and dectricity. water and ps as percn tage of total labor
discharges from bospitals divided by tbe number of beds         force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
P'rcipro. Rae (paccesQ-1tra, mm&, awdfewalf-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are compuged as totl. mak and female labor form
Aveqe .Mire of HoeoU (peams  po  hoau ehoU-4etal, rban,       as percntages of totaL male and female population of all ages
and.mal-A houschold consist of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These arc based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflting age-sex structure ofthe populato  and
may nOt be inluded in the household for statistical purposes.   ong time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aere N&arer of Pers per Roaos--el. when, aid rral-              Econeonic Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Aveage number of persons per room in all urban, and rural       65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellngs. nspeively. Dwlings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied pans.                   INCOME DlSTlIBUTION
Peeage of Drvus inr_ Electricity-ttal, rban, an rural-         Perenage, of Teos  D2posabl AKconse (both in cash and kiad)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4aued fEolinen Ratios                                          The following estimnates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prfnary chool - ttalo. mae aid Gfema-Gross total male and      levels, and should be interpreted with consdierable caution.
feniale enrollment of al ages at tbe primary lIvel as p  rcentage of  EstimdAbsae Fbverty IWcmw LelUS percavpita-mh
rectve primary school-age populations. While many countries    and rar.-Absolute povertv income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. 'he  below which a ipinimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essentiai
differences in country pracis in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estuated Refli  Poverty Inconw Lerd (USS per eqepa)-arhan
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 per nt since sonme   and rrl-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
agec-                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Seconday scAd - toal. nale andfemal-Coriputed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four yeas of approved pri-  fig.ed Poplaon Bow .dhsote Po"ry ncesme Levd (per-
mary instruction; providxl general vocationaL or teacher taining  cent)-ran and rura- Frcent of population (urban and rural
insuctions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.'
ence courses are geeay exduded.
Vocaional Enrollmt (percent of secoidrq)--Vocational iostitu-             Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projecions Department
ndekpcndently or as departments of secondary insfitutions                               June 1985



q'.. *aa
-010"la -av
.|z  ._s p.^.i us# _   Ames p.Js   i r4n I
't_ We--  I-_  St  - I 1_--n  Joowou     
upudpu~.jin q~s~. pd  jM   p V          so 'A. qegg qwa 1-ts,  j
wIs4" p.. ismi"- plea Isw  *"1  .sp   4i._  .jl, M_ _
_1"d ps  -pi 1%A-UI  'ves_  _11.4--p   mii q   qwA R
11we .0111Y _@ a-ift_
cm  vt'O   Lilt                                                      14131104~~~~~~-c'. ai  we  J. VW"
crz        Sw t           n      i an                                                 s        - ira CM_
or         crs       srz        acc                                                                  V o
or         Dolc      ac-c      ac-es                                       52 sisi  w-r- a-lmmo   AJ3
ere    e rz  ecm                art                                           CD*I  W-A alOd    d am
O-         aec       .rc    ers                               er                  s          sum   i as
cm         4Lia   SL-LIU    IL-m
re       ra         c-c      crl        re         ri                                                    ,. go P-II AlAW
rz        rz         *CC        rc       c-c        c-c                                                     cm^1_  iP.1_
c-c-      c-c-      c_-         -        rcc        cc                                                s-u ap.  J I.) .i 4_S
rs       rL         cSI        fL rs z          s                                                           ez41imsd W_A_o
reI       a-i        cIL       c-L       c-i        c-a                                                          -   1m.
4 i3SwA 31-a
am      1 m        tml           m        saga    ea
a    rc-ca       c-Eu      c-a       nh         rist     rSEa       OsL.     a           crn        c-a                     _i _    is
5w      an        caS       c-St      SW        elms      c-ti      rSI         c-i       col       c-IL ZYt) -I _1 gjd 4AW.1
.rnss    cSI      fug    rfse    rc             I'm        rc r-SE   c-rc-LIMc-mi                    Wts              (tjl  WI   iI 4403
rm      ci        rcs       cc        c1c       rga        rlr       cr         Lcl      raL         V-N                          eam dw.1
LM      L Z       ccss                c-r        ct         t        c           -        c-mi      c-                      swami .tegaas As
-        U au      aa       am       am         Uan       311        Ll        515       ii         KU
c-ac     nc  rot                               c r-u rc r n   r   -s        ri       mel         Viz    anc         IWEz                       J_t
Ir tE           fX      tV        K       a," es      k t C1           rs       gw          ml       &WI za'l              V-Ais  1  - Ae -1w
-n       c-       c-       c-c-c r                      L rsi rL -c- rc       -      rn           ai                                        "m a  sled
a-s      a-a      c-u      c-s       c-                  -i                c IoS rs   m eL taZ i
c09 i     Ma    cam         cr-      VO rreL    r                          i- rz  mc _cL                                         ,   simba -ale-em
rnc;       a      c-aIts    Wig  ct r           -C       c rl     r         -        eo         CIP       m         ars  e
Ic        -s     c         reI       ri        ri       rL       c-         -        as.       115       am         Gu        _        5W      m4eii
3=U    c-si.    c-cs    rc           ru        rcs      r r       c ri     rz         MIX       satt      Kilt      art                jM j a
c-3a     c-IS     rm        c-a      c-ma      c-rn e_ta- rn      a-,      s-c       w             Y     ;q                     cmA "A."  e_sp.M
a        am zF        L r   gsG  al lesj lstam a
)q _A    am
rc-a     c-ga      i-si     c-Ir      c-ot     SI-a cs             a-a      rs        rs       ne's      iWc       aLf's      iL'S           u    -1-t lo-itt  oe
GII rs                   ru       "I^  e l       rs    t cZs  bS       rt                 n s       ml's      IWL        Su'%          ul P-e _p   P 04-
-c       ci        c-si    aWua       cLI      r"a       rca      i           s c-V   c-s     tic-i      zIac      MI,       cat*s         to P's s-ped p sej
c-a     scsia           ra  rotac-l            ra rit crca  -caL'a"s a                            L      O ma WL      L sN sIc-c                      -1sI
r-i       -a      c-g       crn        -       cti       c-a    res   rDa             c- s   rs          ui        ns-z.  uL                     Ps1eaI  singz-
LIN      cmi       v"a      ,-        W   c      m ~     c-li.    cs         -        c-u      weti    vialla      aWE       sac-u                    IN1a a1110f
cu        re      ru        a-m       c-I      i-a        ro       -         i                 MIR       ga's      lnll      m'u                        ossi  ime
LIVE     Irat      scm      cr        c-is      c-c      LIU       -c       VS.       crn      Mega       Kiaci     ac-u      KIll                     AAaWWa
cm       cIl    rc          ru        Va       riz       1i-                c-c       cc       s is's Si es.    ii.          mwIL                     "I N IiV
es-m     c-aa      c-e      c-ama      aa       ca        -i    sc            s       c-ea   e're        * -    * S    r                0    | mss sauee_ *e
7a'-                                                                        1_ 1 1t <at meX_ M4 
imliSiSi 5a5 ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ig      Visi
on  a~u  dan                                                    "m           ox -ml                                                       m anmml  Nu  ii am
*um.                                                                                                                  ima-sai a- n  miamaml e  4ed
seftId P110111 0 do P on*                    as aftmi l^v WW  "                     MNIIIN- L
I P I dow                                                                                                                 M100J."m.s



P.Iatlam   3.16M  (ldoiift)                            tlMA    O Pa6W5i6, "m . UWITAL M  U!)                                                                                  AM3    I
3W  hr Capita  wNM.u.   iuNs)t                                                         4.ll.. 1   d1 sunS  patrll                                                              Pops o da
4.6.1                                                                   praisted
1"       1Ism      1s17     No        m             it It0111 1              tm         t4       1"a       MM       1      no         lm
bu_rta o gedl a*1 a4mr sank..                  2.11      2,%03     3,44      4.0      401       5747    4M1        4,71351   4,090      6.03 tiU            6.3    6,66   163        30.03
Isurts of gS am  me4e_te mrani                 21        23 1 *     ,73 3143          3.03,-437 6i,2n1             7.03    46122        5,43     53        53   *6,0    3IA"7         13640
_ur_em  thm.                     U                           04                   4       717       IS    -,7 1537             1.02,        C        -          S        5      33
ott faeb  Owns                                    C       4313 3             -331      -2t1      413      -AV            -1,-  -3.7              4.31    -.5M    4.3  4,237    4.33
llbt af t                                                   i                    ta a    3        3n       22        io        IG        2us        au       3)       MD    7            s
Ct ewt Asmet hi...c-                                         235       4Z       557       la       lta   -4.13    -tin    4,7     3      -1,133 S430           C    4,13  -1.3         - 1.,1
lIt dirnet 1nrel  Ioeelwat                           N        14        a        a        1s         51       m        S3        514        411       7J      Sg         a      40        41111
ft_   d I_t  1em, .. (l1)                          73        ISO       m         1m1      gm                1,431   Iu.ns    10s          1.M       1.3u      u,u        I',m   is       731
to peEls enser                                  154       41333     dunt      ens      Ism2      n73     u,mz0        11     f1733     ( l,3   (l3,3)   10)  (u,1333   M)            (656)
ta print. s.cta                                   CM       (7) (an            cut    (357         can     CM)    (31331 (3                 4        mUy    (0l   l3t0  (44)            1451
Ot_  enpt l                                        -tNt      3         isY       as  U     o        m        in         3       -s116s    -u.7n      -52   -i1.1u        -1      5so       T5
Capital Aset blame                                  227      32        46        a3        s      I,m      u.in      2,13      u 1u,14      its     1, 31    Iu."      ,33   3,zm u 
Cahg  Ins Is.rme C- -   esats)                     43        C        43       45      -1231   -1.310        434       13      1,132      1,x4       -an      4        -410 _03           C.4
0.t letabetlal ,..ar.s .41t.l,3                    u4S    1.407    24        23        4,15      5,36     5,03      4,31      38.1 11  u.7is  7.0            1       3.4   4,3116      4,314
*emn., as       at of staw (p4ds _ f.e3             s.0      7.3                Ft.l     32.S      33.6     30.3       85       40          40        4*.      GA       Si       .7 sS
Offici. gal pet.                                                                                                         
Gres dl mh  at  .1 l      a                     37       2 2a7 35           31        go      1,013    13,33     12.       1312   1.13
cosmselw..                                          2       a 4       25        5 u      is        a        14        s         a       4m
bllateral                                       1401     1403 1    tlI       (40      (a2        II3      C)         7       tII      (3SI
iLS                                             (-3       (-3       I-3      4-1       (-3       I-)      (-3       (-3      (-3      (-1
Or  Itit  rdant                                  CZ)       33       (63      463       (6) U     371     01)       (33)      (3t3    021
-serae.1al1                                       35      214      m3        2S7        43       in2    u.2       t,2In     u.31     1,713
Itenal      t enlt cr1Ias                       (153      (13      4W43      [la3     140      (3043     (5)      ctm       2um    313
IS                                            (loss      (753      (s5      Ca3      131      1233     253    (271        CZ"     44 D
Otaer  ItIltaaI                                 CM)      (211      e3)      (333      36       47        1l       (33      (1241   (345)
PrI_ta                                         03)      [it3)      DII    1043    m1         g1)    (C6         cis)        wIl   (3t
WOeM. OM           r a t partd bj
but femt.Iaed      .5  dlshrai                 271?   21,476    2411    2,37          3,D3      4,04     4.83      5,06      46,S    1.12
Offkltl                                       1.716    1.01      1,_      2,006    2.147    2.7        2.15      3,014    3650    47
1=                                           26D4    61       4713     C5)    goo t21   (3,365)  C(,6a   1,5131 (337
ICA                                           CM)      CM2       CM2      (223      ()        (23)      233      C23)      133    1133
tEam                                       (3.00    1,117)  (1.l42    43.231)  (1,271  Ct,    (1,431   1.640)   3j5n2   M.2=31
Pritat                                          641 6l     5  3T     6       -      1.13      5,06    2,40       2.372     3.44    3.515
U'_ _6, 0cow                                     so        g5      I.z       1.50     1.5       2.45     2,90    3,.7        3,707    4.60
Teal debt aelte pqn-d                             23_   270          316   a     1      or        5so      G2        3         S     13.5
at s.ta Iltart                                  115      125        40     tI         270       2m9      4Jt       51 t          5t  s
Par-sta - I maperta o  pea  as
all sarlses                                    0.7      5.2       91.0       .3     321        8.5     t2.6      10.5      21.2    2.S
PapeelmemlOp                                      3.3     13        IJ       1.3       2.3       1.6 IJ   I         2.3       2.4      5J
Aag. Isirat rta m a- 3_ I_  C                     7.s      47        7.3      7.9      30L.      133      12.0      1066      l0i     10.4
Off IcEd                                       (0L33    (543      CM.2     (7.63    (3.73      "Al8   (7.63       (5.5)   11.113  (ea.)
PrIet.                                         ta3      (7.3      CT.43     (0.63    (3113    (3S.73   (34.01    12.9,    (,7)   (a..)
Aram   -twmyl of _Inca           s               is's     14.       ELI       14.3     1.0       14.8      3,       14.6      14.1    137
Oflctal                                      20.3)   (22.3    (3I.43    (36.3    (17.3),  C37.73   (3683   146.3)   413.8)  (e,a.3
Meet.                                          (8.3)    (0.63     7.13    (MG6   (0.03    (12.93    cul.8)      593    (0.53   1e...)
m  OtDD iel DID                                 2C.7      27.n      26       20.7      24,S     24.3      26        22L5     213.     22.8
IO    dshroweatafeatal gr.. dlteem-tw    D 3              3t 2S27            a"        24.1      21.4     3.        2.4      21.2   23.3
IS  4m  emnelearl.tal debt sanle        l       J         31.      23.5    23J        l35.5      ZJ.2     24.0      21J      25,      22.3
ID OSlabi D                                      0.3       0.9       Lo         3       0.6 DJ     1  0D     4       0.3      0.3      0.2
IDA     aa              rpn  dlda -at              -         -                  -         -        -         -         -        -        -
ISM debt sarlecbal 1 &searetca                   0.3       02         .3      0.1        .       a0.3 0.3  0.1       0.1      0.1  a .3
t _Id leb atl_  _-
U  PrtlS ry -tkta
et Pdlc.   .etsIy  wds_
_e6e S31111
7att Oll.taad



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
STATUS OF BANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1985)
(US$million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
72 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,743.8  23.5 1/    -
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Communications    57.6              14.7
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              2.6
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              0.5
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             24.8             3.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              4.1
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             10.4
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              1.9
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             6.2
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              0.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power                72.0             10.2
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       30.5              7.3
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0               4.7
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.6             32.6
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Communications    44.0                 3.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0              32.4
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               124.9             48.5
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                85.0             64.9
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             10.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             13.9
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985)
Number Year Borrower                         Purpose          Bank  MDA  Undisbursed
1999    1981 Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica              Power             36.0             15.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia ElecLrica
de Bogota                    Power            359.0            171.7
2069    1981  Instituto Nacior'ral de Ins
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio       Watershed
Ambiente                     Management         9.0             7.2
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways          73.8            63.7
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional            Highways          149.6            86.2
2174    1982  Colombia                       Rural Develop-
ment            53.0            44.8
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             12.0
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research        63.4            57.6
2349    1983 Carbones de Colombia, S.A.    Coal
Exploration      9.5             8.7
2379    1984  Colombia                       Earthquake Re-
construction    40.0            24.6
2401    1984  Financiera Electrica Nbcional Power Develop-
ment Finance   170.0            54.3
2449    1984 Empresas Publicas de Medellin Multipurpose
power & water
supply         164.5           150.2
2453    1984 Federacion Nacional de          Agricultural
Cafeteros de Colombiano        diversifi-      50.0            46.3
cation
2464    1984  Banco de la Republica          Lndustrial Cr.   40.0             30.4
2470    1984  Empresas Municipales           Water Supply      18.5            17.3
de Cucuta
2476    1984 Empresa Colombiana de Petrol   Petroleum         130.0            106.2
2477    1984 Banco de la Republica           Development
Banking         90.0            82.7
2512    1985 Empresa Acueducto               Water Supply     129.0            120.9
Alcantarillo de Bogota
2551    1985  Republic of Colombia           Trade Pblicy     300.0            185.5
Export Diver-
sification
26111/  1985  Republic of Colombia           Health Services
Integration     36.5            36.5
TOTAL                                         4,791.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                      1,033.1   5.1
Total now outstanding                         3,758.3  18.4
Amount sold                         51.0          -
Of which has been repaid            51.0          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                3,758.3  18.4
Total undisbursed                                              1,593.4
1/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985
Fiscal                                             Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                    Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1959           Laminas del Caribe, S.A.            Fiber-board           .50                .50
1960-1965       Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products        1.98    .08       2.06
1961           Envases Colombianos, S.A.           Metal cans             .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture        .08    .09         .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.           Electrical equipment .50        -        .50
1962-85        Corporacion Financiera              Development
Colombiana                         financing         6.00   2.02       8.02
1962-1963-85   Corporacion Financiera              Development
Nacional                           financing         6.00   2.04       8.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de              Textiles             1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970       Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                             financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968      Forjas de Colombia, S.A.            Steel forging           -   1.27        1.27
1966           Almacenes Generales de              Warehousing          1.00       -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera                  Livestock            1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74-85  ENKA de Colombia, S.A.              Textiles            11.75   2.61      14.36
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de           Tourism                 -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
CHOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Norte                              financing            -    .45        .45
1969-85        Corporacion Financiera del          Development
Valle                              financing         6.00    .43       6.43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de             Tourism               .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                   Tourism               .80    .24       1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de           Housing                 -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.               Cement               1.50       -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.           Cement               3.60       -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                          Mining               6.00       -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities           13.00   2.00      15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                               Construction
Material          0.49   2.24       2.73



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985) (Continued)
Fiscal                                            Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                    Obligor                   Business             Loan   Equity   Total
1981-1985      Leas;..ng Bolivar                  Leasing              9.00     .20      9.20
1981-198;      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00    0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.             Cement and
Construction
Material        21.86    5.00    26.86
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.           Mining              10.24    1.64    11.88
Total Gross Commitments                              117.36   26.83   144.19
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        67.34    9.59    76.93
Total commitments now held by IFC                     50.02   17.24    67.26
Total undisbursed (including                          45.39    6.36    51.75
participants)                                      -



- 34 -
ANNEX 3
COLOMBIA
Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   eight months (May to December 1985).
(b)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  September 24, 1985
(c)  Completion of Negotiations:       December 17, 1985
(d)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   May 12, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
By September 30, 1986 and June 30, 1987 or other agreed date, the
Bank would review the progress achieved in carrying out the reform program.
Section III: Special Conditions
Release of the $125 million secord tranche of the loan would be
contingent upon:
(a) Satisfactory review of the macroeconomic policies-fiscal, public
investment, monetary exchange rate and trade, and external
borrowing-and maintenance of export liberalization.
(b) Agreement on trade measures based on October/November 1986
review. Deepening of import liberalization to include finished
products.
(c) Effectiveness of the modified PV/SIEX programs for agricultural
exports.
(d) Commitment to deepen the market-based system to allocate import
quotas for cereals. Effectiveness of measures to maintain
support and market prices increases of imported cereals broadly
below inflacion.
Ce) Implementation of a temporary bonus scheme to compensate coffee
growers if world prices increase sharply.
(f)  Setting more competitive rates for FFAP and "storage credit
loans; and
(g)  Implementation of recommendations of studies initiated under the
loan, and satisfactory review of institutional reforms underway.



- 35 -
am  4
Pegs I efta
scala. sawer raus amtieanm   or aes siaiam.re
Ioamma Piintau                            ris  ttpw             mm                  urns MMKC  inMne guEs                   uKCs WAN mIDA.
erOy tuewE.ly OM)
1. weere.nc Psl y           is tieadut. dnsenat o 11  padte          tlrlsg o nesgunodc                     btledfsuy reel..   me lb               Ibeelb g sm ddlpnas  A
wCe amd 1ti  plan In final. pubtl       dseiwns.                                         i  mribise  Is    7-ar tbre.-ynr reel - osil  l._s.lt prre,
isestabea.  ,tay. cnier rate, e                                                                                         aid b. snarled seL
nel trabe, S_ chsl  benoq
pellts.. Ieoii baa tea pl_d -
te email .1 eieknlbet publk
1ies_kt fe 1tU7.
It. bevel Trad lPeicy
Twrt Pillcy               Eihld @ulnf sat all sa-_te r             Uint dstiise toeli st m tlrir    Seletlelnlty rise   ef selt lbmflt tsietole.perlibteistae.
triclm  uaset Ibsen  n _ec             ti_n a sesAC _peel..                    aIls
*_Ss. A detalin km bee len to
edldes, ti tellrily Ob tn ralelop
_nenke  ntrictliCs, P_ee        lt
prlm etobiltJelsA pegs- Is pestpsd
Uti l-thi seinttsaof lbo fitnl
ad MiHcro of IsIs    IMtwite tben.
_sgell restrictins     d     ee fl    I_srta  a tl l1             Shael f fe Mrts I. 156 td Isprta        AI t    far  iade _a_                   IwtIntn . tl  sped actile pjegre
eIl  Imnd Ir_e S  In _bea           1 mine  tn by *er11 155. irsa .  aid be inld bend " tlb teb                         Js p__1e     Pressaci t wata iibereil te.
IS toe d1tu befle  tBS   te LU Gm            l     b nest d    laf -ilp        Ihefis  1mg meefte. teislais l
Ibs Fbiniy tIed. F        .isad peach ma    sas  _bel Ilale Ia  wet. _ ijk t   eare el lie  Ibrts bi     t alas e
beleg lisi dSd  Me rKemtnesse  In    topic Steen. imene 1$  pus                 .1 inost GE  ad atikr p          oUe
edr st be rin  feelt prbeVan    of gad.  ~  free_ hqts 6   lain                 fe twete to be -si btw by sltI
sOi. The f_et p eslag bsmt let    sied fiished pretats. Iman                     Ieo  besd orte ttbwsdiseet
Newts IislsgW ebb" St e_ursi v         Islisi    I _ fa r let    rtss  pr si   1tim reele,
fle-oie1 SM  te mt  S _   ent           tnes. 5.-edl Insert. Imneas  br
prestin  csI I_risd fdi  $2111               SL
d111   atio 31  tile pa-n1. owing
.s l  aled~  pe_      t purled fw
tates    s *s1iosets.
_r-1 t1  W                     1ifod  ei_ of et ei tarff, m  s      el  ef tariff iulley.                 Additimael twtfl attn Usbteg lof       Ibla o tariff Petilc.
retmed he 30 Is    t I16                                                            s  rsedels   of stadtis rsldtr
tl    I Les
lil. Agrtimtble Tin Pilley
YEpst Prntte               ltti bee eified SMewtfled    _           ISE XeltIled  et. is. Jtwapsdled       Effetlee_s, of tb  dfratisid _lIS      balineS  twin lb sfeetlees o tsl.
Pr,ere. of et - 1 byetB lot            SM  dad by eiresihetl _segts.            sslamisd by It. sfIcmtte a            pulicy.
sare   lVWSiEJO  lkt W1i  able w                                                qriaatltItse1   _   etr l_ ctr
- -are of s      limitmal segrts ta                                             SM settee.
barft frn daly  _ _  SM
nas t rs _twetd l_gt_.
fdpurtI of Ajilucee       ifl be iibststcd twa-tea ftarl.    Al l.   wtb by priele wat S   er              indt Ioat-ra It I-bn          tsd slle a  tUI aid eole_, Iag        tlb nkIt-
nemdity                  barley ad s       by_e by psalttig      Cerieals  _ ISPEq eaject a g1Jc*b        at       tcert qabe a11itte  byeit     bet _ebr. and m_clge It dfltic
twa   bytlk pl1     _dte _ s Ier.tale   _ee.  Gradaelly il deam a sett-         by primta  ecr of adirtswltu            pwcs S_      srepf.-les _ *isames,e
g1tb1 _t.  Sgpprt prime _sned    based setu of distrbtIhteg twsrt    ubJets e.*jeet to 1_11t*   _Ut fIr d              of Pe Icy *1 st le-nsig swot Sa
for 155 hae Inrsed bela idIsis        tHomess I, preBwte   et   t ir            we el teat  lse. Cffeeliva            csest rIt prtce.
rote. Agset. lMst icresc1_ me       r _       asp prima begrse  iMetg    a be mend o In lk diestd nomare,
rtat prie_  f d  e  bse _ l_Iy.         Iwo,. diret _tr to seor Itoe            is esctluss  ib se*ldlqg rNel
go  aSd aspess.                      215 *1 lk -in of hsts flJct to          iser1e in saperSM stat primes
ts. Sepst prime let _IUti           f*r l4 t- Ueit crep  1e1 aid
slject  tIs lk  mesl of 11, aId        ridce Ita  mi. is ametic pt ass_
et lacse  1t ret teIs.   wta of         M ed  *tg  _ctl_a
_bet. _es. sriey. nm__w _M
seybweeatd be r.gualtsd is a a
my t   ae tat lklr be_ t prtse
an t Incrasee Is mi tless
'egmta or Adriillta        ot $   tlertllli   e frelaty          id  Wty fl peaft   .*is. sih l metr       e     twa  I ibMilzetion of           ltnetals, sI lb ard _seree.
Iepa                       ta-e. Inserl detis Ihr bpartl ef      I-lkr rIttem  Is sffectse pr_es-        ftrtlilias s-d pstides ilctating
fkvtizt   arr,demd Ire 23 I to 139      tl_I isnia.                             f1ste*d rdets.
6$ talr ci.f. sate  ra pesticide                                               Pa-  tar_egol lep  I Inesles end
dettn sat  eascen fine   rsiep, of                                               mincess Se egprei   ftr I Inoesi
2a   . a2a.                                                                     nith qrIfl, Is were puita. tisctesi
SM moledt bermsers. tescter-heke
Ifte2wints St.1e  sis ur tuuisdtsp
wes  islead P_fneah.



-36 -
Paps .of 
l1F1lI am    wisgTIm                      nu Flra rum.                           W mUm           ma   mai
arly El                                                                           Sarly 1.71
IV. Iwal Ptis,
V "ff_ Pley               labin o_ *r        I   1 om_n_ In D. bia of t9 werisbia be l           mi        IntoS isqo     l rolo of . . Peilay.     air_ of OWN plls.
wrd .99. prism, as  U _dwali be         to be mold  I   ',_ n  It VA _1d
d.94.1 t1 t .V labMi b      Atl         prim of 9    millos.._ ti   mes In
PviIV by t_nt    mim*  i IN  MI rlW      nr        i stl  igea 1 6t. t9w
III II; .. ryi. PerUlIn_ .       _      anU _
mi hdaiiad .It 9w plaitlg. are
el isdmbl and * mS im for tl t .
*aIq   ad disralfimtlm
ln_oo&  A   wvwy  ar iti bints
asm of .dtls prim Ilwman
latrs5.N1
Irt.ilt P11y              n.h. sispi by _I  ts  have nl a"1        bal 1_t rIllt e Icy.                    knllt   ma _tlil t rute robs 9w   6. *rl   t wowallt pllop
by I-. m_ amrep am .99.61  fles                                                   ~r tWarlMblll I. aod  bM  lb
mld 366tl1 to resa tam. fPrtially                                                -.
eulvubia lItavasl rake is. baa Il
bea m_ mt _I_w.9 iar-la.. 1      W
I_m
.Ialtiotlnal
Swooqlb-Inq
'Io.mq ad Pailay          Ttb O,WMis bn dnClad tt a*t_gb          Swml v riciarily awgsN w e   winl_    E6kblii   "Sul 991.1 bI_i  Pailst         Sari. litibtimil Iairqinmw
^ilmbu                    on arimiusi p ia.lq meami.. in         lebdlq   t ab    l bn r_plna.. or   bail.  wl_tm ral   ammIJm or
griasigi. by r abbii g a sla ai a    atl  tUs agrWlslt.las,    is t am s         pg   atmi ad  e_i mU_   wklo..
agrimibrtl Palley b1 rd Is sbr  of      Iitiativea   policy. and  blsqy awmys
clrwllutiq awiley raw. Ints t. lIsnan bow of mi- r_                    i.Iq
as of ap.idlbul cradit. pabli           of l b i1sistrft *.slaiz
sean _abt. .ittllq. a rIhg              spasl    ls.Uhpoll gale klogand
phll. _ of gI.lbrtl _maltiU_.           l.tlltlmil t_I   _       MP
TOM of rIwam low Ns celic .6i9
pragar Om. .fti-b    msolbawie
aflaan mm  lalatsla  s*  e sils
bilg atrl*roL
PIs_ I Pliqae    _d                                                                                       Tab actma beaaa lb a           6m or lb   akW fk. afl1_ 1 ptab_lg and _tibrl_.
dsl=lrlog                bad. _ ti 1dule    rwil  6 lb 5o1"  fIalal rlpamlgsdl                            stl _   I_U_ata.i  i-ilag.
aamm a_l IUtI. of 9_  far              m_t-arley                                hwy. Fiancal _ttkiayat lbe
a ic ra VIn  i. lat ta  year.                                                   l.aba ltad at_ia  of lU  M* ad
a *rapas to      I a_i lb  _llb1   Ior                                          bar bodplly tdlri  a" wished
9q   fw i_ am 1.17 In _speified                                                ewagailtie   Cwvy wts ra a N    lb
lallitia, ad  ra.e  bas been                                                    cm  twasbl pp              .  v_   _ s
_epatdret. relatla,  rfamm  ad
_ Iadltbm in abjasli. ad earga._



- 37 -
ANNEX 5
Colombia: Expected Effects of the Measures Supported
by the TAP Loan
1986       1987      1988
Net Balance of rayments Contribution1l             34.0       50.0       75.0
(in US$ millions)
Agricultural Production2/                           2.5%       2.7%       3.0%
Agricultural Employment3/                           0.2%       0.4%       0.6%
Consumer Prices (CPI percentage points)4/         -2.0        -1.0      -1.0
l The net balance of payments contribution considers the effects on exports
of cost reduction associated with trade liberalization of inputs and
machinery for the sector, and adjustments in the exchange rate. The
additional foreign exchange required to support the liberalization of
import substitutes of agricultural commodities and inputs is also
included.
2/  The effect of the loan on agricultural production accounts for the addi-
tional output levels induced as a percentage of the total agricultural
GDP.
3/  The employment effect is also accounted as net additional employment
induced by the Loan as a percentage of total agricultural employment.
4/  The effects on consumer prices (CPI) indicate the number of percentage
points by which inflation would be reduced as a consequence of the policy
measures supported by the loan.



- 38 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 6
TERMS OF REFERENCE #1
Study on the Responsiveness of the Agricultural Sector
to Economic Incentives and Policy
I. Rationale and Objectives
The design of a comprehensive and consistent po] cy program for the
agricultural and related sectors necessarily requires a deep understanding of
the flexibility with which these sectors are able to respond to policy
changes.  This requires not only qualitative insights   Ut also empirical
measurement of the fundamental parameters determining the performance of
these sectors. Moreover, the design and implementation of a coherent policy
program requiLes a suitable capacitation of key government personnel. It is
therefore essential that Colombian personnel be closely involved in the
project in conjunction with the university to be participating in it not only
in the policy analysis process but also in the required technical studies.
The central objectives of this project are the following: (a) to
measure the response of the sector to changes in relative prices of outputs
and inputs, government investments, and credit availability. In particular,
the emphasis will be on substitution possibilities among major products,
input substitution, and private investment changes in response to changes in
the abovementioned variables; (b) to analyze using the empirical results to
be obtained from (a), the implications of trade policy changes, price support
policies, other price policies and government investments on the structure of
production, growth and employment in the sector; (c) to develop workshops and
seminars with the participation of personn-1 from the Government of Colombia
and the university to be involved in the study as well as short courses to
enable Colombians to upgrade their technical and policy analysis capabili-
ties; and (d) to prepare basic guidelines for a policy program with the aim
to be considered in the national plan.
II. Methodology
The technical study will consist of an econometric analysis involv-
ing estimation of a set of supply, demand and investment equations utilizing
flexible functional forms. The policy analysis will be based on suitable
simulations using the estimated equations.
III. Responsibilities
The study will be the responsibility of Direccion Nacional de
Planificacion (DNP) jointly with the Ministry of Agriculture. They will
implement the study in conjunction with a university which can offer highly
qualified professional expertise.
IV. Pe_ sonnel
The study will require one senior economist responsible for the
project from DNP, four resource economists (DNP and the Ministry of



- 39 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
Agriculture), and three research assistants also from DNP and the Ministry of
Agriculture. The participating university should provide four faculty
members at 25% of their time for one year and two research assistants.
V. Cost and Time of the Study
The study should be completed within two years. A preliminary
report should be available within the first year. The total cost will be
around US$300,000 of which approximately US$220,000 will be used to contract
the assistance of a university. The latter figure should cover the salaries
of one staff-year faculty member (four individuals at 25% of their time for
one year), two research assistants, travel and accommodation of university
personnel, computation, secretarial assistance, and university overhead.
VI. Expected Results
It is expected to obtain the necessary empirical parameters to
permit indepth analyses of the implications of price policies, trade policy
and Government investment policies for the growth potential, employment,
resource allocation of the sector and effective protection. Furthermore, it
is also expected to obtain guidelines for the development of a coherent
policy package for the sector. Finally, a substantial upgrading of the
skills of Government personnel is expected.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Study on the Possibilities to Increase the Degree of
Self-financing of the Entities Ascribed to the Ministry of Agriculture
(ICA, IDEMA~, INDERENA, INCORA, HIMAT)
Objectives
A study would be carried out to determine whether user charges are
appropriate in light of their costs and externalities and whether some of
these services could not be provided in a more cost-effective way through the
private sector.
The entities ascribed to the Ministry of Agriculture (ICA, IDEMA,
INDkPENA, INCORA, HIMAT) depend for their investment requirements and
recurrant expenditures largely on the national budget, although they offer
sei.rices at user charges. In the past, these user charges have not been
periodical.y adjusted to reflect increases in their costs, and today they
bear little relationship to costs. Estimation of adequate user charges may
require changes in the accounting system of the respective utilities to allow
more precise cost accounting, taking into account the externalities from the
services (e.g., sanitary measures that prevent the spreading of diseases).
On the other hand, some of these services are also provided by the private
sector (e.g., soil analysis for fertilizer recommendations and specific
seeds) and a review would be in order to determine whether delivery of these
services through the public sector is cost-effective.



- 40 - 
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 6
Methodology and Expected Results
The legal basis for these services would be reviewed and statis-
tical series would be analyzed to determine cost recoveries in real terms.
In collaboration with the respective entities, the study would determine what
the actual costs for providing these services are and whether and how they
could be reduced. Finally, the demand for these services would be estimated
to determine possible increases in the fees currently charged without dis-
couraging their use. This study would be carried out on the basis of avail-
able accounting data, and if necessary, actual cost data would be obtained
through specific site inspections. Based on the findings of this study,
recommendations would be made on a new fee structure to cover as far as
possible the costs of providing these services and to reduce or eliminate
those services that could be provided in a more cost-effective way by the
private sector.
Responsibility
The planning offices in the Ministry of Agriculture and the
National Planning Department would prepare detailed terms of reference and
contract and supervise a consulting firm or individual consultant to carry
out the study. The consulting firm or individual consultants would need
ample experience in public sector and cost accounting and financial analysis.
Cost and Time Required: US$200,000; six months.
TERMS OF REFERENCE #3
Study on the Design of a Marketing and Agroindustrial
Credit Line of FFAP to Implement Law 21
Objectives
To prepare a feasibility study for an agricultural marketing and
agroindustrial credit project to be implemented through FFAP with internal
and external resources.
Methodology
The study should be based on credit demand estimates for agricul-
tural marketing and agroindustries of cooperatives, producer federation and
small marketing and rural transport enterpreneurs.
Responsibility
Detailed terms of reference would be prepared jointly by the plan-
ning offices of the Ministry of Agriculture and the National Planning
Department, the Agricultural Financing Fund of the Central Bank (FFAP) and
the Colombia Agricultural Producer Organization (SAC). The study would be
contracted by the Ministry of Agriculture and its execution would be super-
vised by a review committee consisting of members of DNP, FFAP and SAC.



- 41--
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
Personnel and Qualifications
The consulting firm should have ample experience in the fields of
marketing, agroindustries and credit and be fully familiar with the Colombian
laws and regulations affecting credit.
Costs and Required Time: US$150,000; six months.
Expected Results
The study should identify the major bottlenecks in agricultural
marketing and specifically the situation with regard to the demand and supply
for marketing and agroindustrial credit. The report should provide detailed
information on credit demand by marketing activities and groups of agricul-
tural products and regions and propose complementary lines of credit to those
that exist under Law 21. For these new lines of credit proposals should be
made on how to operate them in a manner consistent with credit deregulation
and the reduction in subsidies. The report should also estimate total
project costs by components and in terms of local/foreign expenditures and
include a financing plan.
TERMS OF REFERENCE #4
Study on the Cost of Production of Selected Crops
I. Rationale and Objectives
Estimates of the cost of production for various crops are essential
for the Government to be able to monitor the evolution of the competitiveness
of agriculture both in terms of import substitution and export markets.
Moreover, the design of price support policies and the programming of import
quotas (indirectly affecting domestic prices) require appropriate estimates
of domestic cost of production. Some unofficial estimates of the cost of
production for some agricultural products are currently available. However,
most of these use accounting procedures and ignore substitution possibilities
in response to change in relative prices of imports, neglect consideration of
the scale of production on unit costs and do not consider the effects of pro-
ductivity growth.
The olojective of this study is to estimate satisfactorily economic
cost of product:.on for a group of selected commodities for the most import
production regicins of the country, considering inter alia the effects of
changes in relative input prices, scale of production and productivity growth
originated in technological progress or Government investment in infrastruc-
ture (irrigation, storage facilities, etc.).
II. Methodology
The technical study will assemble the best data available and will
include an analysis involving estimation of a cost function using as explana-
tory variables input prices, output levels, productive Government investments



- 42 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 6
in the region and an index of technological change. The study will be per-
formed for selected crops in homogenous production areas using time series
data.
III. Responsibilities
The study will be the responsibility of DNP and the Ministry of
Agriculture. They will obtain the necessary assistance from qualified
consultants.
IV. Personnel
The study will require cwo senior economists from DNP/Ministry of
Agriculture, three research assistants and one consultant.
V. Cost and Time of the Study
The study will be completed within one year with a total cost of
approximately US$100,000 of which approximately US$25,000-30,000 will be used
to contract the assistance of a consultant.
VI. Expected Results
It is expected to obtain the necessary parameters of cost functions
which can be automatically updated as input prices, scale of production and
productivity changes. More reliable, official estimates of production costs
for major products are expected to result from the study.
TERMS OF REFERENCE #5
Study on the Measurement of Effective Protection of
Selected Manufactured Inputs Used in Agriculture
I. Rationale and Objectives
The domestic prices of several inputs used by the agricultural sec-
tor are substantially higher than prices paid by farmers in other countries.
It is, therefore. important to be able to analyze the causes of such a situa-
tion and whether it is due to a high rate of effective protection of the
local producers of those inputs.
The basic objective of the study is to measure effective protection
of major domestically-produced inputs used by the agricultural sector. These
will include pesticides, agricultural machinery and implements, feeds, and
fertilizers.
II. Methodology
The studv will consider tariff and non-tariff barriers affecting
the domestic manufacturers of agricultural inputs as well as nominal
protection.



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 6
III. Responsibilities
The study will he condu:ted by DNP and the Ministry of Agriculture
with the assistance of one consultant.
IV. Cost and Time of the Study
The study will be completed in one year at a total approximate cost
of US$80,000 of which US$15-20,000 will be spent in hiring a consultant.
VI. Expected Results
It is expected to identify the level and variation of effective
protection to domestic production of agricultural inputs and machinery. This
would, in turn, allow the Government to take the necessary measures to
address the issue of protection and high production costs in agriculture.



- 44 -
;,X}       ANNEX 7
RIPUBLICA DE COLOMBIA                                            Page 1 of 17
Bogot'a, March 18th, 1986
Mr. A.W. CLAUSEN
President
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Clausen:
1.       The Government  of Colombia wishes to request a World
Bank loan to support a program of macroeconomic and trade policy
reforms initiated under the Trade Policy and Export Diversification
Loan and its associated Action Program as per letter dated February
27, with emphasis on policy changes affecting the agricultural
sector.
2.       The Government's strategy seeks to strengthen agricultural
performance and efficiency. Given the sector's importance in the
economy, its export dynamism and price stability crucially
influence the success of the macroeconomic and trade reforms.
In turn, the macroeconomic adjustments benefit the sector.  Of
particular importance are the adjustments of the real exchange
rate, fiscal and monetary restraint, and trade reforms including
augmenting imports of agricultural inputs, machinery and spare
parts.   These  policies  are  being  complemented  with  suitable
sectoral measures.
3.       Before turning to the specific action program, we would
first like to refer to recent developments in the Co'.ombian
economy. These events have led to the ongoing process of adjust-
ment for growth and stabilization purposes begun in 1983-84.
T'a deepening of the adjustment in 1985 provides the macroeconomic
framework for the additional policies that the Government will
adopt under this present loan.
A. Development Patterns of the Colombian Economy
4.       Over the long term,  the Colombian economy has had an
excellent development record. Between 1960 and 1981, for example,
real GDP increased at an average annual rate of nearly 6% and
GNP per capita grew over 3% per annum. In addition to rapid growth
in output and income, the Colombian society also benefited from
sustained social progress.



- 45 -
PUL) ORCOLOMBIAANNEX 7
R aPUDLIm OOW MBA                                            Page 2 of 17
2
5.       During 1976-78, increased receipts from coffee and other
exports produced balarce of payments surpluses leading to rises
in  incomes,  aggregate  demand,  and inflation.   To restrain the
growth in aggregate demand, the monetary authority lagged the
exchange rate and the conversion of export receipts into pesos
was  delayed.   Although  the  demand  management  objectives  were
achieved, export development suffered a setback.  Paradoxically,
the export boom eventually left the country with a more
inward-looking structure of incentives.
6.       The passing of the coffee boom and the adverse evolution
in  the   international   economic   environment   in  the   1980s
-international recession, the international debt crisis, major
devaluation and import restrictions in neighboring countries-
contributed to a deterioration of Colombia's economic situation.
Real CDP growth slowed down to 2.5% in 1981 and about 1% on
average in 1982-83.  After experiencing a surplus for six years,
a deficit of about US$1.4 billion emerged in the resource balance
in 1981 and it increased to an average of about US$1.8 billion
in 1982-83. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$1.8
billion in 1983 to approximately USS3.1 billion, and to about
US$1.9 billion in 1984; since tLiei, however, have remained stable.
On the fiscal side, a slowdown in revenue growth, together with
increased current expenditures resulting fro.3 automatic transfers
and large infrastructure investments in energy and transport led
to growing deficits: the overall cash deficit of the consolidated
public sector rose from about 5% in the late 1970 to over 7.0%
during 1983-84.
7.       The performance of the agricultural sector has followed
that of the economy, heavily affected by macroeconomic and trade
policies  and  by  external  events.   The  sector  expanded  at
satisfactory rates during most of the seventies attaining an
average growth well above 4% p.a. Towards the end of the decade
agricultural growth decelerated significantly and for the 1980-84
period the average annual agricultural growth rate fell to only
1.3%. A major difference between the growth patterns of the sector
during the latter part of the sixties and most of the seventies
on the one hand, and those of the eighties on the other, concerns
the expansion of non-coffee exports. While in the former period,
export growth was an important source of sectoral growth, in the
more recent period (1981-83) exports decreased in real terms thus
having a negative impact on the performance of the sector. That
is, failure to continue developing exports explains much of the
fall of agricultural GDP growth that took place in the period
1979-83.



- 46 -
{,X) ~ANNEX 7
RCPUBUCA D COLOMBIA 
Page 3 of 17
3
B.  Adjustment Process 1984-85 and Program of Growth with Stabili-
zation Beyond 1985
8.       During 1984-85 Government policy began to increasingly
focus on: additional revenue and expenditure measures to contain
the fiscal deficit and monetary expansion; acceleration of the
exchange rate devaluations, further increased incentives to
exports. The policy reforms contributed to a GDP growth of 3.1%,
declining inflation to 16.4%, and a reduction in the current
account deficit in the balance of payments by about US$1 billion
to 5% of GDP in 1984.  During 1985 the current account deficit
in the balance of payments was further reduced by US$600 million
to 4.0% of GDP, while growth was maintained, with real GDP growth
at close to 3%.
9.       The current Government strategy emphasizes growth while
maintaining stability and consolidating the adjustment already
achieved in 1985. A program for adjustment with growth has been
executed in 1985 and a program with emphasis on growth with
stability which is expected to result in real GDP growth of 4.5%,
has been initiated in 1986.  Five elements of the program are
spelt out below.
10.      Fiscal Policy.  The 1984-85 program comprised additional
measures to eliminate deductions in the income tax, a broader
base for the value-added tax, an increase in stamp taxes and an
additional temporary 8% import tax, which together contributed
to an increase in Central Government's net revenues of 43% in
1985. Public sector salaries approved for 1985 implied an average
salary reduction of about 12% in real terms and a careful and
sustainable salary policy has been adopted for 1986 with weighted
average increases below the actual average inflation rate of 24%
in  1985.   Combined  with  the  rationalization  of  the  public
investment program and real increases in revenues of public
enterprises (in part as a result of tariff policy), the overall
public sector deficit as a share of GDP was reduced by more than
one-third to about 4.5% of GDP in 1985, and a further reduction
to less than 3% in 1986 and a similar level for 1987 is envisaged.
11.      Investment Program.  The rationalization of the investment
program that has taken place included the rostponement or
cancellation of new large scale power generation and a number
of large transport projects. The revised program, consists largely



- 47 -
REPUSUCA Dg GOLOMUIA                               'iX)            ANNEX 7
Pa2e 4 of 17
4
of projects which are already in execution or for which loans
have been contracted including major exort projects in the mining
sector.  With respect to new projects emphasis has been placed
on those that are quick-yielding, low on capital intensity, make
use of existing Dhysical infrastructure and have a direct effect
on the productive sectors.  The 1986-87 investment program and
associated external borrowing program are presented as Annex 2.
It is our intention to review the 1987-88 program in late 1986,
and by mid-1987 be able to examine a three-year program.
12.      MonetarV Policv.  Central Bank financing of the Government
deficit was reduced by about three quarters to about Col$35 billion
(less than 1% of GDP) in 1985, and it is expected that the Central
Government will not require net Central Bank financing in 1986.
This permits the banking system to expand credit to the private
sector in line with the growth in nominal GDP. Such outcome would
reduce the pressure in the growth of the monetary base during
a period when foreign reserves will be recovering. Wiith a fiscal
policy as discussed above and a sufficient expansion of credit
to  the  private  sector  -inter-alia  to  support  the  financial
system- the growth in the monetary base is intended to be kept
in line with nominal GDP growth during 1986-87.
13.      Exchange Rate Policv.  After years of steady appreciation,
the Colombian peso depreciated in real terms against the U.S.
dollar by a large margin during 1983-85.  In spite of the rapid
appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies,
the peso depreciation against a basket of relevant currencies
was still  very  significant.   With the sharp peso depreciation
during 1985, parity has been more than achieved with respect to
a  1975  base,  which  is  the  highest  in  recent  history.   The
Government will maintain an adequate real rate even if significant
export earnings were to accrue from resource-based exports,
especially petroleum and coal, and temporary coffee market
developments in order to maintain international competitiveness
of minor exports.
14.      Import Policy.   The  persistence  of  external  resource
gaps during 1983-84 forced the Government to rely on quantitative
import restrictions. However, the Government intends to undertake
their phased reduction, beginning with the elimination of import
controls  on  inputs  and  intermediate  goods  for  exports.   In
addition, average nominal tariff rates which were fairly stable
during 1979-81, increased in 1983, and again substantially in
1984, including an increase in the dispersion. During 1985,
however, the weighted average tariff level has been reduced (see
para 17 below), including a decline in the dispersion. The
outward-looking policy initiated in 1985 will be continued.



- 48 -
PX)       ANNEX 7
IEPuuoA                                                       Page 5 of 17
5
C. Trade and Agricultural Policy Reforms
15.      Apart from macroeconomic policies, the additional reforms
to be suported under this loan fall into two major categories:
(i) general and agricultural trade measures; and (ii) agricultural
sector specific policies.
The trade policy measures discussed below are part of
the Action Program to be further developed and agreed upon between
the Government and the Bank prior to the second tranche of this
loan, as part of the Program to be carried out.  The specific
trade actions below relate to the 1986 component of continuing
reform in this area.
16.      Trade Measures.   The Government has removed almost all
export restrictions, except those on non-economic grounds. It
has   postponed   the   implementation   of   its   proposed   price
stabilization scheme for exports until an evaluation is carried
out of fiscal, balance of payments and trade effects. Since 1984
the number of freely importable items have risen from 23 to 1811
(out of a total of 5028 items) and 759 which were previously
prohibited are now importable subject to a prior license.  As
a result, the share of free imports rose from 34% of total import
value in December 1984 to an estimated 55% by December 1985.
In relation to the present loan, the share of free imports has
risen to about 67% of the total annual equivalent value of imports
in the year 1985, by February 1986 (See Annex 1).
Apart   from   reducing   quantitative restrictions,   the
Government's policy is to increase gradually foreign eXchange
available for imports under licensing, and increase imports under
the free license regime including selected finished products.
Agreement on further actions will be reached before the second
tranche of this loan.
17.      By end 1985 the weighted average tariff rate had been
reduced to about 28% from 36% in 1984. Actual duties and surcharges
collected amounted to about 18% of total imports. Many processed
food items and agricultural inputs have already benefited from
tariff reductions undertaker in the first half of 1985. The fiscal
impact of tariff rate decrease has been reduced by eliminating
ad  hoc  tariff  discounts  (notas) wherever  justified.   Finally,
a modification in the system of imports for exports (PV/SIEX)
will enable more producers of export crops to benefit from duty
exemptions and drawbacks for imported inputs.



- 49 -
REPUBLUCA Di COLOMBA A
ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 17
;Ad . ,/ Sjc
6
18.      In connection with agricultural input policy, significant
measures have already been taken during 1985 particularly in view
of the constraints the sector faces in taking advantage of the
duty  exemption schemes.   Import  licensing policy now relegates
most fertilizer imports to a free list as opposed to none
previously. Import duties were also reduced for fertilizers from
23% to 13% of the c.i.f. value mainly via an exemption from the
8% import duty. For pesticides duties are reduced from an average
of 29% to just over 23%.  Finally minimum credit payment periods
were reduced to three months (from six months) for fertilizers,
and to six m-,nths (from three years) for agricultural machinery
in the course of 1985 and minimum credit payment periods were
eliminated  for all imports effective January 1, 1986.   Further
freeing of import licensing and increases in approvals under
licensing have taken place with priorities to spare parts, tractors
and combined harvesters, tractor driven implements and with
emphasis on including some finished products so as to reduce
effective protection levels.
19.      During 1986 a study will be undertaken to examine the
possibilities  of  further  reduction  in  protection.    Special
attention will be paid to finished pesticides, currently enjoying
a higher degree of protection than raw materials. It is expected
that the 8% surcharge on all imports imposed by law will be
gradually phased out starting in 1986.
20.      Sectoral  Policies.   In addition  to major  improvements
in trade policies affecting inputs for the sector, the Government
has been initiating measures to rationalize trade policies
concerning final products in the sector with a view to ensuring
that the more competitive products are supported over time and
that remaining Government interventions become more efficient.
Recent measures have terminated IDEMA's (the Government marketing
agency) monopoly in wheat, while Government interventions have
been reduced in the case of barley and soya. The private sector
can now import the bulk of these commodities subject to a global
quota. We have decided to extend this policy to most other IDEMA
imports in 1986; a market-based system will be gradually introduced
beginning in the first half of 1986 for the distribution to private
importers of import rights to cover 80% or more of the total value
of the global quotas.   Such system would emphasize demand and
supply factors and not rely predominantly on government discretion.
Given international prices and their subsidies support prices
will not increase beyond the rate of inflation (except if the
production cost of a product increases significantly above
inflation.



- sn 
-5--    ANNEX 7
spuEuoA an COOLOUIA                                 X)    Page 7 of 17
7
Import quotas would be established so as not to allow increases
of real domestic market prices of wheat, beans, barley, sorghum
and soybeans (except if production cost of a product increases
significantly above inflation or international dollar prices rise
in excess of inflation).   In order  to determine increases in
production cost we will construct representative proxy indexes
of production cost of food crops, based on official published
statistics, which in agreement between the Government and the
Bank would be used to determine the relationship between production
cost increases and inflation for purpose of the agricultural price
policy.  Until the cost reduction effects, inter alia, of this
loan begin to take effect, inflation would be the main guide to
price policy, and cost of production would be taken into account
as a basis for exceptional and temporary measures. The evolution
of real prices over the medium-term would be commensurate with
production  cost  reductions,  inter alia,  supported by the loan
and with the significant expansion of government investments in
agriculture which would be oriented in part to *mprovements of
production in marginal areas. Coffee policy would aim at ensuring
an adequate balance of incentives between coffee and non-coffee
production.
21.     W4hile an across -the- board macroeconomic approach is
eventually necessary to improve credit policies, since 1983 the
Government has been taking financial sector policy improvements,
and as part of this process it has adjusted interest rate policies
by raising the average agricultural fund (FFAP) rates by 1.5%
to positive real levels and introducing partially variable rates
on most medium and long term FFAP lines, in order to encourage
the flow of credit to the sector. We will study interest rates
on credits for storage (bonos de prenda), including the effects
of the present system on price stability, the role of the private
sector in storage and the competitiveness of rates on these lines.
On the basis of the outcome of this study and a review between
the Government and the Bank, actions to increase the supply of
credit for storage will be agreed upon between the Government
and the Bank prior to the second tranche of this loan, as part
of the Program to be carried out-.  Such actions would improve
the efficiency of the present mechanisms of credit for storage
and complement them with mechanisms that emphasize demand and
supply factors.  The Government is currently studying the financial
sector and policy improvements are expected to be continued during
1986. In agriculture, we will take measures to ensure an adequate
supply of credit to the sector and gradually phase-in and maintain
competitive rates for agricultural loans. To this end our policies
seek to encourage more domestic resource mobilization inter alia
by improving the profitability of lending to the sector, relying
less on regulatory intervention and taking into account demand
considerations.



- 51 -
Lx)         ANNEX 7
RRPUIIUOA DSOLOMMA                                  t'Page 8 of 17
8
22.      A part of the local funds of the loan will be used primaly
to help recuperate the level of public investments in the rural
sector which have considerably declined relative to other sectors.
These funds will be invested in projects providing a minimum rate
of return comparable to the overage rate of return historicallyr
achieved   by  agricultural   public   investment.  The  Colombian
Government has decided on a core investment programn to be financed
(see Annex 2).
23.      The core public sector investment program in rural areas
adopted by the Governm ent is based on the following criteria:
a) provision of adequate cournterpart funds to ongoing projects
financed from multilaterial sources; b) support to internally
financed selected high priority activitivities of the Ministry
of Agriculture and its decentralized agencies, c) initiation of
exturnally financed projects which are presently being negotiated,
d) execut;on of actiities in rural areas related to the National
Rehabilitation Plan, and e) allocation of adequate resourses to
the decentralized agencies o' the ^,griculture Ministry so that
they can comply with their statutory obligations. Excution of
this investment program will be carried out with the existing
staff of the respective executing agencies without staff increases.
The Government will review the execution of the program before
the second tranche release.
24.      The Government has decided to strengthen the agricultural
planning mechanism by establishing a national agricultural policy
board chaired by the Minister of Agriculture. It will be supported
by a technical unit of high quality staff and be responsible
for periodically reviewing the medium-term agricultural strategy,
including the following policy areas: agricultural credit, public
sector investment, internal and external marketing of agricultural
products, and price policy. In addition, the Government has decided
to upgrade the strategic planning and policy analysis capabilities
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and its capacity to identify and
prepare projects as well as to monitor the efficient use of public
investment expenditures. To this effect and before the release
of the second tranche, the Government will develop a  plan to
restructure the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, and in direct
support of the ojective of the sectoral policy measures referred
to above, we will carry out studies in various areas -supply
and demand elasticities in the sector, self-financing of sector
agencies, feasibility of marketing and processing credit line,
protection to domestic porduction of inputs, and farm budgets
and production costs.



- 52 -
NB1UI*DI I   ANNEX 7
nlPUCLICA DE COLOMBIA                                              Page 9 of 17
9
25.      We expect that a coherent program of macroeconomic, trade
and sectoral policies such as the one proposed here will lead
to a significant recovery of the agricultural sector. This, in
turn, will be a key factor for the success of the ongoing
macroeconomic program as well as to achieve the medium-term goals
of adequate growth and employment.
26.      In  view  of  the  measures  being  taken,  the  Colombian
Government would appreciate your favorable consideration of its
request for a Trade and Agricultural Policy Loan. We look forward
to a continuing exchange of ideas wirh the Bank and to the
opportunity to discuss from time to time the progress made in
implementing these reforms.
Sincerely yours,
H'GO     dOS MEJIjA
Minister of  FThance & Public Credde
Ministry of Finance & Pub ic Credit
CA  EDO
Minister of   ricu tu e
Ministr  of Agricu t e



ANNEX 7
- 53                             Page 10 of 17
ANNEX 1
IMPORT LIBERALIZATION MEASURES
1.     With the measures taken by the Government's Executive Foreign Trade
Council (Consejo Directivo de Comercio Exterior) on December 23, 1985 and
February 3, 1986 the share of free imports, as defined in the Loan Agree-
ments for the Trade and Export Diversification and Trade and Agricultural
Policy Projects, is equivalent to 67% of the total annual equivalent value
of imports in the year 1985 1/.  From April 1986 this share will reach
69% based on decisions taken on February 3, 1986 (see table below). In
maintaining this latter share the composition of items could vary.
1985 2/                       1986 4/
Average   December            February   April
Free       54% 11   59%                   67%       69Z
2.     Details of the 203 items liberalized on December 23, 1985 and the
452 items liberalized on February 3, 1986, including their historic annual
values for the periods 1980-82 and 1985, which formed the basis for the
calculations of the share of free imports in the table above, have been
provided separately by Incomex with document dated February 6, 1986 entitled
"Registros de Importaci6n por Posiciones Arancelarias Translado al Regimen
Libre Mediante Resoluciones 46 de 1985 y 01 de 1986".
1/ For items whose imports were significantly restricted in 1985, average
annual values for the representation period 1980-82 were applied in the
calculations and definitions.
2/ See attachment 1 for details by month.
3/ Includes value for all of 1985 of items liberalized in the course of
1985.
4/ Includes values of items liberalized during 1985 and February 3, 1986.



ANNEX 1
Attachment 1
IMPORTS (INCOMEX REGISTERS) 1985
z
Jan.-March      April-May      June-Sept.      October      November      December
Free Imports                          32.9             34.2           41.1           47.6         51.3           59.2
Plan Vallejo (Total)           4.3              4.0             3.6             3.3         3.3            2.8  1
Free reimbursable              9.3              9.8            14.6            23.8         29.0          42.5
Non-reimbursable              19.3             20.4            22.9            20.5         19.0          13.9
Prior license                         67.1             65.8           58.9            52.4         48.7          40.8
Total                                100.0            100.0          100.0           100.0        100.0         1 Xt
(Value US$ million)               (1010.4)            (661.0)      (1564.3)         (412.3)      (447.6)       (589.7)
(Monthly Average)                  (336.8)            (330.5)       (391.1)         (412.3)      (447.6)       (589.7)
S- %J
0



ANNEX 2
Page 1
Foreign Medium and Long-Term Loan Disbursements by Sector
(US$ Million)
Disbursements 1986             Disbursemnts 1987                               1986 - 1987
Existing  1986                Existing   1986-87               Existing          New             Total
Loans I/  Loans  Total        Loans j      Loans   Total        Loans j/   %   Lcans       %    Total       %
Productive Sectors         9G        531.3  1494.8        301.4       409.7   711.1       1264.9  (45.4)  %4Q   (50.8)  22U5.9  (47.5)
Agriculture              62.6    170.0   232.6          72.7        254.0   326.7       135.3            424.0            559.3
Industry                249.1       4.0   253.1         65.5         53.0   118.5       314.6             57.0            371.6
%4ning                  651.8    357.3  1009.1         163.2        102.7   265.9       815.0            460.0           1275.0
Physical Infrastructure    674.2    156.4   830.6         502.3       550.1  1052.4       1176.5  (42.2)  706.5  (38.2)  1883.0  (40.6)
Power                   449.0      56.9   505.9        310.0        333.0   643.0       759.0            389.9           1148.9
Transportation          187.5      42.9   230.4        176.4         53.7   230.1       363.9             96.6            460.5
Cbmunications            37.7      56.6    94.3         15.9        163.4   179.3        53.6            220.0            273.6
Social Infrastructure      152.0      15.8   167.8        195.6       187.6   383.2        347.6  (12.5)  2Q3.4  (11.0)  551.0  (11., 
hater and Sewerage       55.8       4.7    60.5         89.0        60.9   149.9        144.8             65.6            210.4
Wducation                42,2       1.1    43.3         45.6         8.5    54.1         87.8              9.6             97.4
Healt.h                  18.6       0.0    18.6         21.9        45.3    67.2         40.5             45.3            85.8
Urban & Regional Dev,    35.4      10.0    45.4         39.1         72.9   112.0        74.5             82.9            157.4
Total                  1789. 7    703.5  2493.2       999.3       1147.4  2146.7      2789.0  (100.0) 1850.9  (100.0) 4639.9  (100.0)  OQ
N >1
I -.
I/ Includes loans signed as of Dec. 31, 1985, as wel as additional LS/EXI loan (US$ 170 million) for Carbocol E1 Cerrejon project to be
signed in 1986.
Ex icludes  ense ($ 195 mLlion).



Financing of Public Investment                                               MIEX 2
(US$ Million)
Foreins Loans 1/               local Rnds 2/                  Investnet
1936     1987    1986/87      19B6     1987    1986/87      1986      1937    1996/87
A. FroeLcts with ForeiRn
Financinq 2/             1,682.4  1,785.2  3,467.6       478.0    526.2   1,004.2    2,160,4  2,311.4  4,471.8
Productive Sectors                684.0    349.6  1.033.6      A4.3       86.7     191.0       788.3    43G.3  1.224,6
Agriculture                    59.6      81.7    141.3       34.8     30.2      65.0        94.4    111.9    206.3
Industry                       30.5      2.0      32.5       3.5       2.0       5.5        34.0      4.0      38.0
%tning                        593.9    265.9    859.8       66.0      54.5      120.5      659.9    320.4    9W.3
Physical Infrastructure           830.6  1C52,4  1,8M.0        281.8    300.6      582.4    1,112,4  1,353.0  2,465.4
Pbwer                         505.9    643.0  1,148.9       193.5    177.6     371.1       699.4    V20.6  1,520.0
'ransportation                230.4    230.1    460.5       62.3      78.0      140.3      292.7    30.1    600.8
Ccbnnications                  94.3    179.3    273.6        26.0     45.0       71.0      120.3    224.3    344.6
Social Infrastn,cture             167.8    383.2    551.0       91.9    138.9      230.8       259.7    522.1    781.8
kter and S,erage               60.5    149.9    210.4        35.5     58.8      94.3        96.0    208.7    304,7
1ducation                      43.3     54.1      97.4      19.6      31.1      50.7        62.9     85.2    148.1
l1wlthl                        18.6     67.2      85.8       5.0       5.7       10.7       23.6     72.9      96.5
lUran and Regional
[Evelojnt                   45.4    112.0    157.4        31.8     43.3       75.1       77.2    155.3    232.5
B. Projects without ForeiRn
Finiarn2in                       j/996.2                              A    1,826.6      996.2    830.4  1,82L.6
Total (A + B)                             1,785.2  34g6" 11474.2   1,356.6                   3,15G,6  3,141.8  6,298.4
k/ Ohly ircludes foreign loan disburseits that directly flnance public investt (inclwing FIN loas). Equals total diaurswents          7
of public M & LT loans less lons channelled to private sector ard loamns to replace short term debts.
2/ Include pesos counterpart proceeds of  RI) Trade/Export and Trade/Agriculture loans.
3/ Based on DNP docunmt '"rogram de IFdeudairento Extero" of January 1986. The 1986-87 Lorrowing plan by sector and project lbsed2
on the docuTent .s attached.
4/ Estimated as inrplicit difference betwieen Total Public Ihvesnmt (A + B) ard Tbtal of Projerts with Foreir  FExing (A).
5/ 'otal lihvesmmt for 19%6-87 based on [WP projections of finances of decentalizedt agenis and Ministry of FLnanoe projections of
Central Governent finances, with adjustrnts for investmut transfers between Central Govenrmmt arid decentrlized agpecies.



ANNEX 7
- 57                        Page 14 of 17
() JANNEX 2
Page 3
INVESTMENT PROGRAM AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
(Col$ Billion)
Entity / P-ogram              1984         1985          1986         1987
Actual     Estimate       Planned      Planned
ICA                               2.1          3.0           4.1          7.0
INCORA                            2.4          3.4           4.3          3.3
INDERENA                          1.2          1.0           2.0          2.5
HIMAT                             1.9          1.9           3.5          5.9
IDEIA - COFIAGRO                  0.9          0.5           0.3           -
DRI                               5.8          6.0           7.2          9.2
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE           0.3          0.4           0.7          0.7
REGIONAL CORPORATIONS             O.6          0.8           1.9          1.9
NATIONAL REHABILITATION PLAN       -                         2.6          2.7
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION  1/          _                         1.9          2.2
RURAL W'ATER SUPPLY  I/            -            -            0.3          0.3
STUDIES                                                      0.1          0.1
TOTAL                         15.1         17.0          28.8         35.8
1/ Incremental to ongoing programs of electricity and water supply sector entities.



ANNEX 7                  ANNEX 2
- 58 -   Page 15 of 17             Page 4
BORROWING PROGRAM 1986-87
(US $ Million)
Sector                                          Amount of Loan/i
1986      1987         Source/5
Agriculture
Irrigation Districts II - HIMAT                 110.0                   IBRD
Technology Transfer - ICA                                  35.0         IBRD
Trade & Agricultural Policy Program/3           250.0                   IBRD
Caja Agraria - Credit/3                                    150.0        IBRD
Agricultural Credit-BR-FFAP/3                               80.0        IBRD
Rio Rogota - CAR                                            40.0        IDB
Agricultural Credit B.R.-FFAP/3                 200.0                   IDB
Livestock Development/3                                     50.0        IDB
Irrigation Development-HIMAT                                60.0        IDB
Tolima Triangle                                             50.0        Govt.
Fisheries Research - INDERENA                               15.0        Govt.
TOTAL                                           560.0      480.0
Industry
Financial/Industrial Sector/3                              150.0        IBRD
Micro-Enterprises BR/3                            7.0                   IDB
Small-Scale Industry-BR/3                         3.8                   Govt.
TOTAL                                            10.8      150.0
Mining
Ecopetrol Investment Program                     80.0                   Govt.
Ecopetrol Investment Program                               100.0        IBRD
Ecopetrol Investment Program                     30.0       30.0        Suppl.
Rio Zulia-Covenas Oil Pipeline/2                190.0                   Govt.
Rio Zulia-Covefias Oil Pipeline/2                35.0                   CB
Canlo Limon-Rio Zulia Oil Pipeline/2             19.5                   CB
Los Llanos Oil Pipeline/2                        55.5                   Suppl.
Cerrej6n Northern Zone-CARBOCOL/2/4             170.0                   Govt.
TOTAL                                           580.0      130.0
1/ The amount of loans refers to commitments (contracting), not disbursements.
2/ Projects which are underway and for which other loans were contracted prior
to 1986
3/ Public sector loans to finance private sector
4/ Additional to existing U.S. Exim Loan
5/ Note "Government" includes EXIM-type loans



ANNEX 7               ANNEX 2
~ 59         E!Amount Io on31    Page 5
Sector                                          1986        X87         Source
Power
Bogot& Distribution II                          171.0                   IBRD
Power Sector - FEN                                         200.0        IBRD
Power Sector - FEN B-Loan                                   30.0        IBRD
Power Sector - FEN                                         170.0        CB
Power Distribution - FEN                        100.0                   IDB
Power Generation                                           100.0        IDB
Transmission ISA                                112.0                   IDB
Transmission ISA (Co-financing)                             50.0        CB
Transmission ISA                                            40.0        Suppl.
Rio Grande II EPM/2                                         20.0        CB
Central-Northern Line ISA/2                       2.6                   CB
Guavio Hydropower EEEB/2                         17.7                   Govt.
Betania Hydropower/2                             60.0                   Suppl.
Termination of ongoing
Projects CVC, ICEL, CORELCA,ISA/2                47.4                   CB
TOTAL                                           510.7      610.0
Transportation
Ports Rehabilitation                             42.8                   IBRD
Rural Roads II FNCV                              62.0                   IBRD
Pick and Shovel Program FNVC                     20.0                   IDB
Highway Rehabilitation & Improvement                       100.0        IDB
Navigation Equipment DAAC/FAN                    14.3                   CB
Navigation Equipment DAAC/FAN                     3.7                   Suppl.
Airports DAAC/FAN                                10.0                   Govt.
Public Works Equipment Santander                  4.0                   CB
Public Works Equipment Tolima                     2.1                   CB
TOTAL                                           158.9      100.0
Communications
Rural Telephone Program II                                  93.0        IDB
Border Areas Telecom                             42.8                   Govt.
Expansion Channel 3 Inravision                   15.0                   Govt.
Expansion Channel 3 Inravision                   45.8                   CB
Fondane Systems Equipment                         6.5                   Govt
Registraduria Equipment                           3.0                   Suppl.
Regional TV Inravisi6n                                      11.0        CB
Various Projects Bogota ETB/6                    66.0                   Suppl.
Various Projects Bogota ETB/6                     1.5                   CB
Various Projects Emcali/6                        19.2                   CB
Various Projects Emcali/6                        25.1                   Suppl.
Various Projects Medellin EPM/6                  24.0                   CB
Various Projects Medellin EPfM/6                  6.2                   Suppl.
Various Projects Telecom/6                       59.2                   Suppl.
Various Projects TeleCartagena/6                  1.7                   Suppl.
Various Projects Telearmenia/TeleCaqueta/6        3.2                   Suppl.
Various Projects Tele Honda/6                                1.0        Suppl.
TOTAL                                           319.2      105.0
/6 Includes both ongoing and new projects



ANNEX 7
Page 17 of 17        ANNEX  2
- 60-
Page 6
Amount of Loan/l
1986      1987          Source
Water
Water Sector Program FFDU                                   100.0        IBRD
Water Sector Program FFDU                                    50.0        IDB
Water Sector Program FFDU                                    50.0        Govt.
Rural Water Supply - INS                          20.0                   IDB
Bogota IV EAAB/2                                            45.0         Govt.
Bogota IV EAAB/2                                             15.0        CB
TOTAL                                             20.0     260.0
Education
Education Material & Equipment                    42.5                   Govt.
Secondary Education ICCE                           1.1                   Suppl.
TOTAL                                             43.6        -
Health
Health System Consolidation                       10.3                   Govt.
Hospital Equipment ISS                            4.5                    Covt.
Hospital Equipment ISS                             0.4                   CB
Hospital Equipment ISS                             6.3                   Suppl.
National Cancer Plan                              20.0                   Suppl.
Laboratories INAS                                 25.0                   Govt.
TOTAL                                             66.5        -
Urb  and Regional Development
Technical Assistance                                         20.0         IBRD.
Urban Infrastructure - BCH                        50.0                   IDB
Development La Guajira                            15.0                   IDB
Aguablanca - EMCALI/2                                        50.0        IDB
Lots with Services -  ICT                                    45.0        IDB
Rio Rancheria                                                22.0        Govt.
Aguablanca EICALI/2                                8.3      85.0         Govt.
Cartagena Canals                                   6.3                   Govt.
TOTAL                                             79.6      222.0
TOTAL ALL SECTORS/7                              2,349.3   2,057.0
/7 Excludes defense



- 61 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
COFFEE POLICY
Background
1.         Sharp increases in world coffee prices beginning in 1976 caused by
a serious frost in Brazil led to an acceleration in new plantings and
replantings of the high-yielding caturra variety (which had been introduced
in the late 1960s in Colombia). With production reaching some 13.0 million
bags during 1980-84 (Table 1) and the introduction in October 1980 of the
International Coffee Agreement (ICA) quota regime, stocks accumulated,
increasing from 3.5 million bags in 1979/80 to 12.2 million bags in 1983/84.
In 1985 Colombia had about 25% of estimated world stocks.  Low real producer
prices in the early 1980s, however, reduced production and stocks in the last
two seasons.
2.        When the export unit value more than doubled in US dollar terms in
1976, real producer prices rose by almost 70X (Table 2).  Since the -boom"
years of 1976 and 1977, however, real producer prices have been declining and
the recent prices of 6,500-7,000 Pesos/Carga (in 1980 Pesos) were low by
historical standards.   Producer prices as percent of export unit value,
excluding costs involved in exporting coffee, varied between 42% and 77%
during 1968/69-1983/84, with an average of 64.1% (see Table 3); in compari-
son. The shares in 1984 and in August 1985 were 65% and 54% respectively.
3.         The severe drought in Brazil in 1985, which is expected to reduce
Brazil's 1986/87 crop substantially, has caused world coffee prices to
increase  sharply  in  recent  months.    World  prices  of  Colombian  coffee
increased by about 75% between September 1985 and January 1986. World coffee
prices are likely to be much higher in 1986, and possibly in 1987, than in
1985.   As the authorities recognize, it is important for Colombia not to
encourage production excessively by wholly passing recent world prices to
producer prices.
Policy Issues
4.         The high international prices in recent months and the suspension
of the ICA quotas have significantly changed the prospects for the Colombian
coffee sector. Major changes include:
(i) the recent declining production and the lifting of the ICA quotas
mean that stocks held in Colombia can be reduced substantially in
the next few years;
(ii) high international prices have prompted coffee growers to put
pressure on the Colombian authorities to raise producer prices;
(iii) high international prices have encouraged smuggling due to the
large difference between international and producer prices;
(iv) wide fluctuations in recent Brazilian production have convinced the
Colombian authorities that future ICA allocations should increase
the quota for Colombia, taking into account relative production
capacities of the two countries; and



- 62 -                              ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
Table 1: COLOMBIA: SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION OF COFFEE: 1958/59 TO 1985/86
Coffee                                              Exports
Year                        COLCM       ICA Quota  Non-Quota   COLX    COLX
(Oct/Sept)  Production /a  Consumption   Markets        Markets    Total   Stocks /b
1958/59           7,442            908        6,372        59       6,431         114
1959/60           7,648         1,197         5,597        74       5,671         894
1960/61           7,500          1,270        5,990        53       6,043       1,081
1961/62           8,035         1,526         5,536        58       5,594       1,996
1962/63           7,500         1,416         5,952       104       6,056       2,024
1963/64           7,800         1,375         6,228        82       6,310       2,139
1964/65           8,547         1,354         5,612       131       5,743       3,589
1965/66           8,224          1,202        5,670       195       5,865       4,746
1966/67           7,507          1,250        5,421       213       5,634       5,369
1967/68           7,995          1,270        6,344       251       6,595       5,499
1968/69           7,375         1,290         6,204       330       6,534       5,050
1969/70           8,266            859        6,467       407       6,874       5,583
1970/71           6,872            989        6,008       322       6,331       5,135
1971/72           5,958         1,035         6,198       289       6,487       3,571
1972/73           8,564          1,046        6,046       209       6,255       4,83h
1973/74           7,066         1,252         6,873       535       7,408       3,240
1974/75           7,981          1,279        7,102       440       7,542       2,400
1975/76           7,804          1,369        6,554       469       7,023       1,812
1976/77           8,939         1,305         4,891       401       5,292       4,154
1977/78          10,463         1,420         7,144       414       7,558       5,639
1978/79          12,300         1,638        10,714       717      11,431       4,870
1979/80          11,848         1,728        10,692       848      11,540       3,450
1980/81          13,037         1,478         8,310       721       9,031       5,978
1981/82          12,893         1,592         8,052       938       8,990       8,289
1982/83          12,810         1,695         8,465       709       9,174      10,230
1983/84          13,464         1,553         9,130       836       9,966      12,175
1984/85          10,718         1,775         8,731       917       9,648      11,470
1985/86 /c       11,900         2,000        11,000       500      11,500       9,870
/a Reduced production. Series deduced from data on stocks, consumption and
exports.
/b Stocks include private holdings.
/c Estimates.
Source: FEDERACAFE.



- 63 -                                ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
Table 2: PRICES PAID TO FARMERS BY THE FEDERATION AND
PRIVATE EXPORTERS: 1960 TO EARLY 1986
(Pesos/Car ga)
Nominal Terms                   Real Terms /a
Private                          Private
Federation       Exporters       Federation       Exporters
1960                     430                429       8,431            8,412
1961                     471                471        8,564           8,564
1962                     478                478       8,386            8,386
1963                      55                530       7,400            7,067
1964                     719                677       8,170            6,693
1965                     718                649       7,890            7,132
1966                     758                681        6,954           6,248
1967                     759                705       6,432            5,975
1968                     889                857       7,112            6,856
1969                     983                943       7,123            6,833
1970                   1,304              1,250       8,871            8,503
1971                   1,246               n.a.       7,739             n.a.
1972                   1,500               n.a.       8,242             n.a.
1973                   1,938              1,815        8,809           8,250
1974                   2,206              2,259       8,051            8,245
1975                   2,730              2,950       8,125            8,780
1976                   5,533              5,828       13,696          14,426
1977                   7,179              6,946       13,344          12,911
1978                   7,300              6,946      11,514           10,956
1979                   7,270              7,179       9,203            9,087
1980                   8,663              8,528       8,663            8,528
1981                   9,453              9,271        7,414           7,271
1982                  11,171             11,003        7,035           6,929
1983                  13,010             12,796        6,840           6,728
1984                  15,499             14,724        7,045           6,693
1985                  19,694             18,946        7,034           6,766
1986 Early Feb. (*)   30,000               n.a.        9,615 /b         nea.
(**)   34,800              n.a.       11,154 /b          n.a.
/a Nominal Terms deflated by CPI with 1980 as 100.
/b Estimates
(*} Without TAC
(**) With TAC
Source: FEDERACAFE.



- 64 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 7
(v)  with  the  possibility  of  the  ICA  quota  system  not  limiting
Colombia's exports in the future, Colombia plans to export more
coffee than in the recent past.  To do so, the Colombian authori-
ties felt a need to raise real producer prices substantially to
compensate for increased production costs arising from "roya"
disease treatment.
5.        The above factors have prompted the Federation/Government to raise
real producer prices and to aim at obtaining higher production levels in the
future than were previously planned.
Policy Instruments
6.        The Federation of Coffee Growers (FEDERACAFE) is a private organi-
zation representing the interest of growers, and it determines coffee policy
jointly with the Government.  The private traders have the important market
of the United States as the Federation cannot export to this market for legal
reasons.  On the other hand, the non-ICA member country markets are exclu-
sively for the Federation as the private exporters cannot sell their coffee
equally competitively in these markets.  In recent years, the Federation has
given private exporters ICA "export stamps equivalent to 45-48% of the total
ICA quota allocated to Colombia. Because Colombia's exports to non-ICA mem-
ber countries are small, once the ICA quota allocated to Colombia is deter-
mined, over 90% of Colombia's total exports, over 80% of the Federation's
exports and almost 100% of private exporters' exports are determined.   In
exchange for the coffee exported, the Federation and private exporters
receive the cash equivalent of the export unit value multiplied by each enti-
ties' export volume.
7.        In addition co transportation and preparation costs, the Federation
and private exporters have to pay an ad valorem tax to the government, as a
percentage of the export revenue.  By an agreement, 3.2% of the total coffee
export revenue is receivea by the National Coffee Fund which is administered
by the Federation and 0.8% by the Federation's Departmental Committees.  In
addition, exporters pay retention quota contributions and pasilla and ripio
taxes to the Federation in kind. The contributions and taxes vary in propor-
tion to the quantity exported by the private exporters. The retention quota,
pasilla and ripio taxes, and the quantity exported by private exporters
determine the quantity which private traders purchase in the domestic
market.   They can obtain coffee either from the Federation's stocks or
directly from the coffee growers.   In recent years, as the contribution of
quotas increased sharply, it became very difficult for the private exporters
to pay the contribution in kind.  Thus a new contribution "cuchilla' to be
paid in cash by the private exporters to the Federation Is currently in
effect.
8.            The Federation has a monopoly in selling ecrffee to domestic
roasters for domestic consumption purposes.  The quality of coffee provided
to the domestic market has been lower than that used for exports, but domes-
tic sales prices have also been much lower than export prices.  The Federa-
tion can, through its pricing policy, change the quantity sold to and the
revenue derived from this market. The difference between production and the
sum of export and domestic consumption is held as stocks by the Federation,
which incurs storage costs. Thus surplus coffee, ceteris paribus, increases
the Federation's expenditures.



- 65 -
ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 7
9.          The main policy instruments are:  (a) the exchange rate; (b) the
Federation's purchasing price;  (c) fertilizer subsidy;  (d) the ad-valorem
tax; (e) the retention quota; (f) domestic retail prices; (g) credits and
subsidies for stumping, new plantings, renovation, diversification and roya
treatment. These policies impact inter alia on production, farmer's revenue,
stock levels and the Federation's and private exporter's finances.   With
devaluation of the peso above the inflation rate in recent years, coffee
export unit values in real peso terms has been stable since 1980/81, in spite
of depressed nominal US dollar prices. The incentive to produce, however, is
determined by the Federation's purchase price and not the export unit-value.
Although the Federation as a private association would like to offer high
purchase prices, it recognizes that so doing would induce overproduction,
stock build-up and financial costs. The fertilizer subsidy which has bene-
fited coffee production is now being phased out. First, imposed in 1967, the
ad valorem tax has declined since then from 26% to 6.5% at present; the
coffee sector receives a fixed 4%, the Government receiving the rest.   The
retention quota (in kind) and 'cuchilla" (in cash) set the limit on how much
exporters can pay the farmers, given the export price and the ad valorem tax.
10.       Due to high international coffee prices, real producer prices were
raised substantially in January 1986. The Federation and the Government have
decided to pay a portion of the payment to growers in bonds; TAC (Titulos de
Ahorros Cafeteros ).
11.         Coffee policy changes agreed between the coffee growers and the
Government with reg&rd to producer prices are to:
(i)  raise producer prices to 30,000 pesos/carga from the late January
1986 level which is about 37% over that which prevailed in 1985 in
real terms (see Table 2);
(ii)  adjust producer prices every two months to maintain real producer
prices at the level of late January 1986; and
(iii)  issue bonds (TAC) with face value of 6,000 pesos/carga as a payment
to growers if 60-day moving average of Colombian coffee at New York
ex-dock exceeds $2.25/lb.
12.       The remainder of the windfall profit from the potential coffee boom
is to be shared by the Government and the National Coffee Fund.
13.        As shown in Table 3, even with the sharp price increase, producer
prices in February 1986 as a share of export prices are at the lowest level
for at least 15 years.   Even if TAC is included, producer prices are less
than half of export prices at present.
Policy Implications
14.       This coffee boom has emerged unexpectedly and the allocation of the
windfall profit was understandably influenced by political pressures.   It
would have been difficult to avoid the significant real producer price
increase, given the high intrrnational prices and increased smuggling.  The
authorities are fully cognizant of the economic effects of price policy.



Tahle 3:  SIIARE OF PRODIICFR PRICE IN EXPORT UNIT VAlVIIE IN CnLflMRA: 1q6q TO EARLY IqR6
-----------------------------------------------------_.-----___ ___  ---------_  ------------------------ _-____-____-_______________
Share of
___  _        F.x2ort Unit Vatue (BUY)                                                        Producer Price in EUY /b
Less    l.ess Gastoa and    Gastos        Gaston   Ad-Valorem     Less Gastos    Less Caston and
Gaston   Ad-Valorem Tax     Rxternos      Internos      Tax                         Ad-Valorem Tax
(USo/lb)     -------------------------------(Pesos/70kg)-----------------------------       --------------(2) -----------
1969         48.st      1,304.20    1,207.50          946.66         58.20         38.sn      260.84          63.32            80.76
1970         48.66      1,384.34    1,283.88        1,007.01         61.96         38.50      276.87           79.00          100.72
1971         47.23      1,452.07    1,326.91        1,036.50         78.72         46.44      290.41           73.04          9s.50
1972         59.72      2,015.01    1,R80.53        1,477.53         87.48         47.00      401.n0          62.04            7896
1973         67974      2,470.51    2,328.95        1,834.85         94.56         47.O0      494.10          64.72            82.15
1974         67.01      2,694.06    2,447.70        1,908.89         156.36        90.00      538.81           70.10           89.88
1975         90,57      4,322.01    4,046.43        3,225.25         185.58        90.00      821.1          52.47            65.s3
1976        184.32      9,864.49    9,531.98        7,756.37        219,59        112.92    1,775.61          45.15            55.48
1977        194.16     11,017.31   10,619.85        8,746.91        257.46        140.00    1 872.94          52.58            63.84
1978        160.57      9,685.99    9,108.64        7,558.88        330.40        246.96    1,549.76           62.33           75.11
1979        165.09     10,837.69   10,020.27        8,286.24        417.42        400.00    1,'34.03          56.43            68.24                    C
1980        134.77      9,830.24    9,7u6.37        7,203.36        555.54        508.33    i,563.01           76.86           93.54
19R1        129.88     10,913.22    9,609.85        R,223.24        708.37        600.00    1,386.61          76.51           89.41
1982        129.18     12,771.07   11,243.12        9,799.99        833.04        694.91    1,443.11           77.28           8M.66
1983        131.13     15,952.24   14,227.19       12,839.34       1,025.05       700.00    1,387.R4          71.12            7R.81
1984        132.50     20,609.73   18,513.10       17,173.47      1,355.02        741.60    1,339.61          65.*1            70.20
1985        135.0      29,650.89   26,015.89       24,088.58      2,135.00      1,soo0n0    1,927.11           58.90           63.6n
1986 (A)    237.0      64,017.00   58,077.00       54,096.00      2,940.00      3,000.00    3,981.00          40.20            43.10
(46.60) /e      (50.00) Ic
-----------  --    --------------------------------------------------      ---------      ---------------------------------------------------
/a Federation's purchase price.
/b Estimate.
/c Including TAC with present value of 4.800 Pesos/Carga or 3,733 Pesoa/70 kg Exelno,
(*) Early February, 1986.
Source: FEDERACAPe.
co
0



- 67 -
ANNEX 8
Page 7 of 7
15.       The present real producer prices, on the other hand, if maintained
for several years, could result in a substantial increase in production,
accumulating stocks and a weak financial position of the National Coffee Fund
by the mid-1990s. If the real producer prices are kept at the present level
until the early 1990s, Colombia's coffee production could reach 14-15 million
bags by the mid-1990s. In case an international coffee agreement, possibly a
successor to the present one which expires in September 1969, continues to
exist, demand for Colombian coffee in the mid-1990s, according to the Bank's
model is expected to be about 13 million bags (11 million bags for export and
2 million bags for domestic consumption). In the absence of an ICA, since a
production increase to 14-15 million bags exceeds the expected world demand
increase, Colombia would exert downward pressure on world prices. A risk of
accumulating one to two million bags of coffee per annum in the mid-1990s
would therefore be possible. Another possible impact of continued high real
coffee producer prices is on the diversification program. Although detailed
analysis on the impact of high coffet prices on the profitability of other
crops has not yet been made, they could retard diversification efforts.
16.       While recent policy changes have been reasonable and perhaps in-
evitable, the Bank has discussed with the Federation how future policies
might be managed with and without boom conditions. The current pricing
policies are effective until September 1986. Subsequently, the Colombian
authorities might consider keeping real producer prices at a level of only
20% (rather than the 37%) higher than the level which prevailed in 1985, and
pay any amount in excess of this as the variable "bonus payment", a policy
which we discussed in December 1985 and has been partly adopted already
through the TAC mechanism. Real producer prices of 20% higher than the 1985
level is estimated to enable Colombian production to reach 13 million bags by
the mid-J990s. Such a variable "bonus system" should lessen the price
signals to producers and should help avoid any overproduction in the 1990s.
It would be important to reduce real producer prices when world prices fall,
which is expected to occur in mid-1987. In addition, the Federation plans to
maintain the elimination of subsidies on fertilizer, including the subsidy of
transportation costs, to maintain the elimination of subsidized credit for
p'lantings and replantings, to continue providing financial assistance for
stumping and for containing the "roya- disease, and to encourage
diversification for increasing farmers' income from non-coffee sales.
Conclusion and Update
17.       Although coffee stocks have remained high in the first half of the
1980s, projections of key variables in the coffee sector under recent poli-
cies have implied that the sector would continue to be an efficient and
important part of the economy. Since the end of 1985 sharp ir.creases in
world coffee prices, resulting from the damages of unprecedented drought on
the Brazilian crop, have led to significant domestic price increases. The
new situation has provided Colombia the opportunity to lower stocks and gain
additional foreign exchange. Nevertheless, given that this recently emerging
price situation is unlikely to be a medium-term phenomenon, the authorities
recognize the need to avoid a sharp increase in production through coffee
pricing and complementary policies as set forth in this annex.



IBRD 1837C
Wr                                      74                                    i  CiJsA                        MAY 193
JAMAtICA HjAit !INKcAH SE
*At/A_'Nic
Cllflp   4                                      J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cpl
.NICAA <I U- A
-12'  COLOMBIA  I;-   -                                                                v        >J r
aiarnim                    t019ioKA  Imtult -Vr t'P
PANAMA   ;    411    t   t     R      S           etss                          torw4t^Le~~~~~~~~~~~PAAMP
ntu%8?,                                      ' ' b    K-' .4I, GUIANA
Iwtetiwn ,'  .  8 iC /                      tens I
-L                    Y  .Srw ffl
-~~ ~~~ * ,g    --                                                                      - 
cS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r nu.'ta ,, 
' E C    U  A        D O                                             R ~y < 's r  . .l  |  .
Urbon PoPubtion ofCeneer To_ns-  Elevnons.';-                           Pac /.i    -'     |  C
V { t   g .1   _ 5Me,itue1    ,oo, -    1.000  
/=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                               -.0.0    -, .- -' B R*AiZ I.
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~    E; N8h_r                                    E Z U E L A 
-  Internotionol 80undorses   -~~~~          t I/|
78-r7                                                        ~                  \,                                  4-_
LkonPbulmnofCoe(TFn       E le.,                                                      \..VENEZUELAy
Notonal Coo-ral7- 
7.8'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



