Pakistan: Better Public Services in Punjab Province Through Local Government

                                                                                                       93508
                                                                                                       May 9, 2012




 Stronger Management Systems Aid the Transition to Decentralized
 Government


Overview
A change in the structure of local government in the Punjab, Pakistan’s most populous
province, held out the promise of better public service delivery, and this is now being realized
thanks to an innovative World Bank project using an incentive-based approach. The results
have translated into more water connections and better waste handling for households and a
more responsive complaints resolution system.


Challenge                                                MULTIMEDIA
In 2001, the Punjab government introduced a
series of fundamental reforms creating a new
level of local governments, known as Tehsil
Municipal Administrations (TMAs), with the
mandate of municipal service delivery. However,
these TMAs were under-equipped to deliver on
their mandate. Shortcomings included requisite
capacity for operations and management of
existing services; technical skill sets for provision
of municipal infrastructure; planning for future
investments; municipal finance; urban
management; and responsiveness to their                MORE
citizens. Moreover, the capacity of the provincial
                                                         Uplifting Lives: Flood Emergency Cash
government to oversee and coordinate TMAs                Transfer
remained weak, as it struggled to adjust to its
                                                         Pakistan: The Untold Story
revised oversight role. These issues were
exacerbated by the rapid urbanization in Punjab
over a sustained period, and stagnating
infrastructure and service coverage, including for basic
services like water and sanitation. With TMAs unable to                 More Results
deliver on their mandates, there was a high risk of significant
gaps in the provision and management of municipal services


                                                                       47%
across the province affecting millions of people.

Approach
                                                                       of households are now
The Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project aims to              connected to the water supply
improve the viability and effectiveness of urban services
provided by participating TMAs, and to make such
improvements sustainable and replicable in other TMAs
through the creation of a performance-based management
framework. This framework includes a variety of customized        1,281
capacity building interventions to enhance the TMAs’ ability      TMA Staff Have been Trained
to deliver on their mandates. These interventions include:
computerization of financial management systems;
participatory planning for prioritization of investments
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION
including Geographic Information Systems (GIS)-based land-
use planning; creation of operations and maintenance               Project Documents
framework for infrastructure assets; citizen complaint tracking    Pakistan Punjab Municipal
and resolution systems; and a centralized province-wide            Development
performance tracking system. These interventions were first
                                                                   Pakistan Country Site
introduced in 37 TMAs, selected on the basis of their
performance against criteria such as own-source revenue            End Poverty in South Asia Blog
generation effort and development spending capacity. Having        Connect with us on Facebook
been successfully piloted, these activities have now been
                                                                   Talk to us on Twitter
scaled up to 68 additional TMAs across the province. High
performing TMAs have been given the incentive of
infrastructure development grants for sub-projects in
municipal sectors of their choice, prioritized through the
planning exercise.

Results
The Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project, which aims to increase the viability and
effectiveness of urban services delivered by TMAs across the Punjab province, has made
substantial gains in improving the capacity of TMAs to fulfill their mandate. The project’s
activities have contributed to the following results:
-An average of 47 percent of households were connected to water supply systems in mid-
2011in 10 TMAs, compared with 41 percent in mid-2006.
-An average 67 percent of solid waste was being disposed of at landfill sites in mid-2011 in 18
TMAs, as opposed to 50 percent in mid-2006.-
There were 37 TMAs with more than 90 percent citizen complaint resolution efficiency in mid-
2011, up from 20 TMAs in mid-2010. A new citizen complaint tracking system has now been
introduced in 68 additional TMAs in the Punjab since.
-Eighteen out of 37 partner TMAs were generating monthly Performance Management System
reports in mid-2011, utilizing a province-wide integrated and standardized system for tracking
indicators related to municipal services. This is up from 12 TMAs in mid-2010. The system has
since been introduced in 68 additional TMAs in the Punjab.-
The project trained 1,281 TMA staff since 2006 in areas such as information technology,
planning, and operation and maintenance of infrastructure assets.
-Updated GIS-based municipal service maps had been provided to 37 TMAs by mid-2011 for
future enhancement and planning, up from 30 by mid-2010 and none at project inception. This
has since been introduced in 68 additional TMAs in the Punjab.


Voices


     By adopting PMS, I am able to redress public complaints
   regarding sanitation in better way, as now we have better and
   reliable information .  
                                ——Mr. Ansar Abbas, Sanitary Inspector



Bank Contribution
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is providing US$50 million.  

Partners
The Punjab Government’s Municipal Development Fund Company, the implementing entity for
the project, has established a reputation for itself as a viable vehicle for the institutional
development of, and provision of performance grants to, local governments.  The government
of Punjab, as well as numerous donors, envisages routing funds for local governments for
performance-based service delivery through it.

Toward the Future
It is expected that the tools developed by the project, and gains coming from them, will be
institutionalized at the provincial level in the Punjab through support from key stakeholders.
This model is replicable in other provinces of Pakistan as well, with Sindh already using it with
some variations through a project funded by the Asian Development Bank.
