  IEG
                                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14661

                     ICR Review
                     Independent Evaluation Group




         1. Project Data:                                               Date Posted: 06/02/2015

                Country: Pakistan
              Project ID: P083929                                                               Appraisal                  Actual
          Project Name: Punjab Municipal                     Project Costs (US$M):                          59.00                   54.59
                          Services Improvement
                          Project (pmsip)
   L/C Number:            L7380                               Loan/Credit (US$M):                           50.00                   48.85
       Sector Board:      Water                               Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                  06/01/2006
                                                                Closing Date:
            Sector(s):       Water supply (40%); Solid waste management (20%); Roads and highways (20%);
                             Sub-national government administration (10%); Sewerage (10%)
           Theme(s):         Other urban development (33% - P); Urban services and housing for the poor (33% - P);
                             Municipal governance and institution building (17% - S); Municipal finance (17% - S)

Prepared by:                  Reviewed by:                ICR Review                      Group:
                                                          Coordinator:
Robert Mark Lacey             Christopher David           Christopher David              IEGPS1
                              Nelson                      Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 According to the Loan Agreement (Schedule 2), “the objective of the Project is to improve the delivery and
effectiveness of urban services in Punjab.”

According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, page 11), “the objective of the project is to improve the viability
and effectiveness of urban services provided by the participating TMAs*, and to make such improvements sustainable
and replicable in other TMAs through the creation of a performance-based management framework at both TMA and
provincial levels.”

This Review is based on the statement of objectives in the Loan Agreement.

The key associated outcome targets are:
Improved effectiveness and financial and technical viability of urban services provided by participating TMAs.
Rising levels of satisfaction among key stakeholder groups with respect to services targeted under the project and
improvement in selected service delivery indicators.
Government of Punjab’s improved capacity to monitor TMA performance.
Government of Punjab’s improved capacity to manage cultural heritage assets.

* Tehsil Municipal Authorities. A Tehsil is an administrative division of India, Pakistan and some historical states of South Asia. It is
an area of land with a city or town that serves as its administrative center, with possible additional towns, and usually a number of
villages.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
  The appraisal estimates of the cost of each component are derived from the PAD (page 14). The ICR does not
contain complete information about actual costs by component. There are component costs expressed in Pakistan
rupees (ICR, Annex 1, table (c)), but the total of these when converted into US dollars at the exchange rate provided
is considerably less than the total project cost in US dollars (Annex 1, Table (a)).
Component 1: Grants to TMAs: appraisal estimate US$48.7 million (of which US$3.2 million for capacity grants and
US$45.5 for development grants). Capacity Grants would finance needed improvements in TMAs’ systems and
business procedures in the areas of urban planning, financial management (including budget management),
investment planning for service delivery, and operation and maintenance. Development Grants would finance
infrastructure investments (“sub-projects”) in the TMAs. Initial selection of TMAs for the grants would be based on: a)
ratio of own source revenue to total recurrent revenue; and b) ratio of development funds expenditure to total
development funds available (as a gauge of implementation capacity). Subsequent selection would be subject to the
TMA’s achieving the performance targets specified in previous grant awards, and producing a list of prioritized
projects through a comprehensive planning process.
Component 2: Support For Other Institutions : appraisal estimate: US$10.2 million. This component was to assist the
Government of Punjab through (i) capacity building of the Local Government and Rural Development Department (the
parent Department of all local governments in the Province); (ii) enhancing the capacity of the newly established
Urban Unit in the Planning and Development Department (the Unit is mandated with providing technical assistance to
the Planning and Development Department on all matters relating to the urban sector); and (iii) supporting the
operations of the Punjab Municipal Development Company (PMDFC) through the provision of consultancy services
(PMDFC was established in 1998, under a previous Bank project, as an independent, government-sponsored,
non-profit company. There is no information on the company’s overall mission. The Government of Punjab delegated
the day-to-day implementation of the project to the Company).

A level 2 restructuring became effective in August, 2010. It (a) i) scaled up the Capacity Grants sub-component to 105
TMAs from 37; (b) ii) strengthening the management of infrastructure investments under the Performance Grants
sub-component; and (c) addition of Intermediate outcome indicators to the results framework.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  Project Cost. According to the PAD (page 14), the total cost estimated at appraisal was US$59.0 million, including a
front end fee of US$0.1 million. This is given as US$50 million in Annex 1, table (a), of the ICR, but this figure refers
only to the activities financed by the Bank loan. Total actual costs must be derived from the financing table (b), which
shows total financing required as US$54.59 million (of which US$48.85 million came from the IBRD Loan and
US$5.74 million from the Borrower.
Financing. According to the ICR (Annex 1, table (b)), US$48.85 million of the IBRD Loan of US$50 million was
disbursed. No information is provided in the ICR on the undisbursed balance of US$1.15 million; the project team
subsequently informed IEG that it was canceled. There were no other external sources of financing.
Borrower Contribution . This consisted of the TMAs’ 15% up-front contribution to the sub-projects financed by the
development grants. The ICR reports the actual total as US$5.74 million, 64.5% of the amount estimated at appraisal.
However, the ICR also states that nine TMAs provided land in lieu of this contribution, mainly for landfill sites.
Dates. As part of the August 2010 level 2 restructuring, the loan closing date was extended by twenty three months
from December 31, 2010 to November 30, 2012 to enable Institutional Development activities to be implemented
over a larger universe of TMAs (the number of participating TMAs was increased from 37 to 105). In November 2012,
the closing date was extended for a further 12 months to November 30 2013, "primarily to ensure that the institutional
reforms introduced in TMAs were embedded in their systems, particularly in the TMAs which became
partners since late 2010" (ICR, page 4).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
The project’s objectives are relevant to the World Bank Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Pakistan for
the Fiscal Years (FY) 2010-2014. Under Pillar 3 of the CPS, “Improving Infrastructure to Support Growth,” a new and
stronger emphasis on improving urban infrastructure services became apparent. The project under review is
specifically mentioned in the CPS as part of the Bank’s efforts to support institutional strengthening for improved
municipal service delivery. These efforts are relatively recent in origin, and the FY2006-2009 Country Assistance
Strategy is the first for some time to include urban infrastructure improvements in the Bank’s repertoire in Pakistan.
Interventions were geographically restricted to cities in Punjab Province and the focus was on “strengthening
management practices, not actual improvements in services” (IEG Completion Report for the FY2010-2014 CPS).

The project documents contain little reference to Pakistan Government strategy for the urban sector. However, the
PAD states that opportunities for Bank reengagement in the sector emerged as a result of the priority given to
devolution reforms and the delivery of services at the local level.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of objectives is clear. The activities incorporated in project design were relevant to achieving the
objectives. Enhancing the delivery and effectiveness of urban services was to be attained through improving the
management capacity in both TMAs and in the provincial government. The project was conceived as an incentive fund
for TMAs willing to improve their performance. To this end, the project would (i) finance consultancies technical
assistance and training to strengthen TMAs’ systems and business procedures in the areas of urban planning,
financial management (including budget management), investment planning for service delivery, and operation and
maintenance, as well as the capacity to identify, prioritize and implement infrastructure sub-projects through
on-the-job practice; (ii) finance appropriately selected infrastructure sub-projects, which would serve the double
purpose of providing incentives to TMAs to improve their planning and management performance, and lead to better
delivery of public services; and (iii) strengthen the capabilities of the provincial authorities to monitor and evaluate the
performance of the TMAs through the provision of consulting services and training. The support provided to TMAs
was designed to go further than conventional capacity building and to involve a comprehensive approach to
institutional development. This approach was based on a model of piloting, learning and scaling up, with a view to
enable constant feedback from TMA officials in order to customize and improve initiatives. Performance management
was also to benefit from an enhanced system for registering and addressing customer complaints.

Design also included activities to enhance provincial authorities’ capacity to manage cultural heritage assets such as
the Walled City of Lahore, by assisting in the planning and implementation of resettlement and the sharing of benefits
in a complex urban environment. This activity was an addendum and is not directly relevant to the development
objectives.

 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The extent to which the project’s objective -- to improve the delivery and effectiveness of urban services in Punjab
– was achieved is rated substantial.
Outputs
   A monitoring cell was established in the provincial Local Government and Community Development Department
     (LG&CDD), which is the parent institution for all local governments in the province. This monitoring cell is
     electonically linked to the Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company’s (PMDFC) M&E system, through
     which TMAs report on agreed municipal service indicators. The cell is thus assisting the LG&CDD oversee TMA
     performance on municipal service delivery irrespective of source of funding.
   105 TMAs benefited from project institutional development initiatives. The original target was 19, subsequently
     expanded to 37, and then again to 105 at a level 2 restructuring effective August, 2010.
   A complaints tracking system has been put in place. The system enables complaints to be tracked until they are
     resolved. It can also be used to identify systemic issues in service delivery.
   A computerized financial management system was put in place and operationalized in all TMAs across the
     province to assist in budgeting, accounting and financial management, as well as streamlining reporting to the
     provincial level.
   A participatory planning process has been introduced in all participating TMAs. Plans of existing structures and
     geographical information system (GIS) maps were developed as planning tools in the TMAs.
   Websites were developed for all TMAs with a view to enhancing public disclosure and access to information.
     TMAs were assisted in uploading their performance management system data on web-based software,
     facilitating concurrent reporting to the provincial authorities.
   Over 3,000 officials across 105 TMAs received training in the use of computerized systems and business
     processes introduced through the project. These ranged from basic computer literacy to data collection,
     compilation, and reporting, website launching and updating, conducting road rating surveys, contract and project
     management, procurement, and use of engineering equipment.
   Institutional frameworks and standard procedures for routine and periodic maintenance of infrastructure assets
     were developed and piloted in two TMAs for water supply, two others for solid waste management, and in
     another for roads. Training on operation and maintenance organization and procedures was provided to the staff
     of other TMAs (number not specified).
   Funding for sub-projects in the form of “performance grants” was provided to those TMAs that fulfilled the
     following selection criteria: (i) ratio of own source revenue to total recurrent revenue (value of the ratio is not
     specified); (ii) ratio of development funds expenditure to total development funds available (as a gauge of
     implementation capacity, value also unspecified); (iii) identification of priority infrastructure investments through a
     participatory planning process; and (iv) agreement to contribute up-front 15% of the sub-project cost, to fund
     subsequent O&M costs, and to submit a detailed application including a service improvement plan, and
     performance indicators and targets.
   A total of 39 completed sub-projects in 29 urban centers were financed by performance grants, involving a total
     expenditure of just under PKR3 billion (approximately US$28 million). 17 of these were in water supply, 13 in
     roads, and six in solid waste management. The remaining three were single sub-projects in sewerage, parks and
     fire-fighting equipment. In addition, two sub-projects were incomplete at closure, and a further three were
     terminated and subsequently completed with TMA and provincial funding (sectors unspecified).
   Outputs related to Cultural Heritage management included amendments to the existing legislative framework; (b)
     rationalization of institutional mandates for management of heritage assets; and (c) implementation of a pilot
     project in the Walled City of Lahore (the pilot project included the creation of a Heritage Trail, to showcase
     methods and benefits of conservation of cultural assets.
Outcomes
Two Institutional Development Assessments were undertaken by the Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company
(PMDFC, one of the two implementing agencies), with assistance from the Bank’s supervision team, the first just
before the mid-term review (MTR) held in January 2010, and the second in early 2013, about six months before
closure. The ICR provides only a brief summary of the Assessments’ conclusions, and there is a paucity of
quantitative information. Much of what follows, therefore, is taken from the Assessment reports themselves (provided
by the project team at IEG’s request) and from the more detailed summary included in the Aide-Memoire to the final
supervision mission.
Overall, the Assessments indicate that project interventions have improved capacity and systems in the TMAs for
service delivery, planning and revenue management:
   The adoption of the Complaints Tracking System (CTS) has facilitated the systematic organization of complaint
     information, standardization and reduction of resolution time, and redressing of individual complaints. In addition,
     TMAs are reportedly using the CTS for identification of problem areas and to identify rehabilitation and
     maintenance requirements. At project closure, 81 out of 105 beneficiary TMAs were resolving more than 90% of
     complaints against service delivery. Approximately 86% of respondents stated that CTS has made the resolution
     of complaints more efficient. 56% credited the system for improvements in service delivery. 85% of respondents
     stated that the time taken to resolve complaints has decreased due to CTS, and 50% believed that CTS is the
     major factor responsible for improving and standardizing complaint resolution time. 84% of respondents reported
     that CTS is a major factor in improving the confidence of citizens. The Assessments state that the CTS has
     enhanced public confidence in the complaint resolution systems. 79% of the respondents reported that the
     number of complaints in their TMAs have increased and out of those 46% attributed this increase directly to CTS.

    The introduction of the Performance Management System (PMS) has enabled TMA officials to quantify municipal
     service coverage, evaluate service quality, and monitor TMA staff performance. 92% of the respondents consider
     service delivery data maintained by project beneficiary TMAs better or significantly better than the corresponding
     information available at other TMAs in the province. 100% of the respondents cited the PMS as the most
     important or significant factor in improving service delivery data. 95% of the respondents reported that project
     TMAs have a better capacity to monitor staff performance than non-beneficiary TMAs. As in the case of the CTS,
     the 2013 Assessment indicates that TMAs are beginning to utilize the PMS for more sophisticated objectives
     such as identification of rehabilitation and maintenance requirements, and decision making on service delivery
     needs. However, Assessment results also indicate that PMS data are still not being utilized to their full potential
     as a decision making tool in the areas of budget allocation, identification of capital investments, and allocation of
     funds for operation and maintenance. TMAs tended to consider the project itself as the major client for the data
     generated by the system, and their focus was accordingly on collecting and updating information for project
     monitoring purposes.
    The Computerized Financial Management System (CFMS) has been introduced in 102 TMAs, against an original
     target of ten. 94% of the respondents to the Assessments reported that CFMS has reduced the time taken to
     generate financial reports and improved presentation of financial data. It has also reportedly improved
     reconciliation of accounts, and maintenance of a ledger of receipts and expenditures. 48% of respondents
     consider that CFMS has facilitated the recovery of arrears by TMAs (through, for example, the utilization of
     electronic record-keeping and bill generation for water supply consumers). The Assessments note the need for
     further intensive training for TMA staff in the use of the CFMS and also the need to negotiate full legal
     acceptance by the provincial authorities of CFMS reports as valid audit documents. A full transition to CFMS will
     only be achieved once such a validation becomes effective.
    For 68% of respondents, project beneficiary TMA staff have better computer skills (including development and
     use of websites) than those of their non-beneficiary colleagues. Interestingly, however, 72% believed that the
     computer training provided under the project increased their level of comfort with computers only marginally if at
     all. Training was seen to be supply rather than demand-driven. As the Assessments said, factors other than the
     training (including on-the-job skill transfers) obviously played a greater role in enhancing computer skills.
    The websites developed are, according to the Assessments, ineffective. Only 10% of the respondents considered
     that the TMA websites had a significant impact in disseminating useful information to the public, while 55%
     believed they had no significant impact. 35% of respondents saw no improvement in terms of disclosure of
     information to the public. According to 80% of the respondents, the websites were updatedonly in response to
     direct requests from the project, if at all.
    Project interventions have proved that they can be replicated, as indicated by the scaling up from 37 to 105 TMAs
      following the January 2010 mid-term review. This should help to ensure sustainability, and a widespread
      anchoring of the new approaches.
The sub-projects delivered by TMAs under the project are reported to be much larger in scope and size than the
initiatives previously managed by the TMAs. However, no quantitative evidence or concrete examples are provided in
the ICR.
An enhanced contract management regime (including clearly defined roles and responsibilities, standard operating
procedures and checklists) has improved contractual compliance and enabled more timely completion of projects. The
percentage delay in completion for the 39 sub-projects financed under the project fell steadily through the
implementation period from over 200% for sub-projects started in 2007 to 80% in 2009 and to 27% in 2012. The
overall average delay fell from 72% prior to the introduction of improved contract management to 27% subsequently.
Better timeliness has been accompanied by enhanced quality of sub-projects. Training, strong oversight by the
PMDFC, and practical exposure of TMA staff to national competitive bidding are reported to have contributed to this
result. However, no quantitative indications of improved quality are provided by the ICR.
The population benefiting from the 39 completed sub-projects is estimated at about 1.7 million. This estimate is based
on the coverage area of each sub-project using GIS maps of the urban center where the sub-projects were
implemented. At closure, 74% of solid waste was disposed of in landfill sites developed under the project compared
to a baseline of zero (there were no landfill sites) and a target of 70%. About 550,000 persons are estimated to have
benefited from this. The percentage of streetlights functioning in the TMAs was 73% at closure, compared to a
baseline of 70% and a target of 75% (although the project did not invest in improved street lighting, this is considered
to be an indicator of improved service monitoring procedures). Among the 11 TMAs with project-financed water supply
sub-projects, the percentage of households connected to the system was 53% at closure compared to a baseline of
40% and a target of 59%. The 30.3 kilometers of urban roads constructed or rehabilitated directly benefited just under
550,000 people (no baseline or target). Direct beneficiaries were taken to be those persons living within 500 meters of
the roadway, as estimated using the GIS maps.
A beneficiary survey was conducted by an independent contractor. It covered 14 completed sub-projects (eight water
supply, four road and street improvements, and two solid waste management). Each selected sub-project had been
fully operational for at least six months prior to the survey. Results are broadly positive. As a result of street and road
interventions, 66% reported improved access, 87% reduced travel time, 83% higher property values along the
roadside, and 75% enhanced business opportunities. 72% of respondents confirmed improvement in primary
collection of solid waste and cleanliness of their neighborhoods after sub-project completion. Responses in the water
supply sector are the least positive. Only 54% responded that the quantity of water supply had increased, and 56%
that water pressure had improved. 61% perceived an improvement in the quality of water. The relatively weak results
for quantity and pressure of water may be attributable to the energy crisis in the country, which negatively affected the
ability of TMAs to pump and supply water in the desired quantities. More encouraging was the percentage of
respondents using TMA-supplied water as their primary source rather than private bore holes or hand pumps. This
rose to 74% after the installation of the sub-projects compared to 36% beforehand.
With regard to cultural heritage management, the effectiveness of the project-supported institutional framework and
capacity building in conserving and productively exploiting cultural assets were to be tested through piloting
improvements to the Royal Route in Lahore (the route used by the Mogul Emperors when traveling to or from
destinations such as Delhi). The pilot could not be completed by project closure. Improvements to the facades of 773
buildings were 72% complete, together with 52% of the paving work on 57 streets in the pilot area. Related
infrastructure rehabilitation (water supply, sewerage, storm water drainage, electricity supply) had rates of completion
varying from 60% to 80%. The main reasons were: (a) inability to foresee the precise nature and extent of the works at
the appraisal stage; (b) weak contract management at the Walled City of Lahore Authority (WCLA, the implementing
agency for the cultural heritage activities); and (c) underestimation of the time and effort needed for preparatory work
before the main works could begin. According to the ICR (page 38), the remaining works will be funded by the
provincial government.

 5. Efficiency:
  Investments were demand-driven, and only a few sub-projects could be identified at appraisal. An ex ante economic
analysis was carried out for two sub-projects, one in water supply and the other in roads. The benefits were calculated
by estimating the additional surplus for water consumers due to increased water supply. This method was used
because of unavailability of data to estimate health benefits, or those from time savings due to increased piped water
supply. Three ERRs were estimated on the basis of three different assumptions concerning consumer demand: (a)
24% assuming a constant budget demand curve; (b) 20% assuming a straight line demand curve; and (c) 12%
assuming willingness to pay as a percentage of income. As the PAD (page 83) notes, “the results are highly sensitive
to assumed values of some of the parameters and would only deliver a fragile economic justification.” The ex ante
ERR for the roads sub-project was estimated at 17%. The Highway Development and Management (HDM) Model-4
was used for the analysis, and the assumed benefits were reduced vehicle operating costs and travel time, and
increased commercial property values.
At closure, the two sub-projects assessed at appraisal were subjected to an ex post analysis for comparison
purposes. Two additional sub-projects, one in the water sector, and the other in roads, were also analyzed. It is
unclear why ex post ERRs for more sub-projects were not calculated. It is known from the Beneficiary Survey that at
least 14 had been fully functional for at least six months before the Survey was conducted, an event which itself took
place some months before closure.
The methodology used for calculating the ex post benefits of the water supply sub-projects is different from that at
appraisal. Data on health benefits were reportedly available at closure, and this was considered a superior measure to
that of consumer surplus, especially given distortions resulting from low tariffs. Other benefits included were municipal
government revenue from water fees, but these were not substantial. Assumptions of tariff increases and collection
rates were scaled down from the appraisal levels, as was the assumption concerning the speed at which households
would be connected to the water system. The ex post ERR for the sub-project analyzed at appraisal is estimated at
13%, and that of the other water supply sub-project chosen (which was the largest for the sector) is 5%, well below the
chosen discount rate of 12%. The ex post ERRs for the two roads sub-projects were 14.9% for the one also estimated
at appraisal and 15% for the additional one. The same methodology was used as for the ex ante analysis.
There were a number of operational and administrative inefficiencies which, together with the expansion in the
number of participating TMAs, resulted in extensions to the closing date totaling nearly three years (64%). Among the
causes of delay were: (a) low responses to invitations to bid, resulting mainly from the major earthquake of 2005; (b)
weak TMA capacity for procurement of works and contract management in the initial period of implementation,
resulting in a low disbursement rate at the time of the mid-term review; and (c) frequent staff turnover in TMAs
resulting in the erosion of capacities built up.
Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                         No
    ICR estimate                      No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    Relevance of both objectives and design is rated substantial. On balance, efficacy is rated substantial. The
Institutional Development Assessments indicate positive achievements in the building of managerial capacity in the
TMAs, and the interventions were scaled up to include almost three times as many TMAs as originally proposed. The
sub-projects improved delivery of infrastructure services to the urban population in the participating TMAs, although
some outcomes were below target. Beneficiary satisfaction was broadly positive, though generally low in the water
sector. Efficiency is rated modest – ERRs were calculated ex post for only four sub-projects; the ERR for one of the
initiatives is well below the discount rate, while those for the others exceed it only narrowly. There were also
administrative and operational inefficiencies contributing to a three year delay in project completion. Overall outcome
is assessed as moderately satisfactory .
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   There is a significant political risk. In 2009, the provincial government did not hold local elections that were due that
year under the provisions of the Local Government Ordinance of 2001. Instead, it continued to control districts
through directly appointed officers as permitted under the 2001 law. The law was replaced through the enactment of
the Punjab Local Government Act in 2013. This new law also envisions elections, but these have been constantly
postponed, and their date remains uncertain at the time of writing (February, 2015). Once they occur, local
government in the Province would undergo major structural changes including the reorganization of the TMAs which
benefited from the project into Municipal Corporations or Municipal Committees. The provincial authorities will need to
take measures to ensure that these new structures sustain the project-supported interventions.
Many of the institutional changes introduced by the project still lacked legal validation at closure, thereby presenting a
significant risk to sustainability. For example, the LG&CDD was not successful in negotiating with the Auditor General
of Pakistan recognition of the outputs of the computerized financial management system as legally valid audits.
According to the project team, it is likely that legal validation of the audits and other institutional changes will have to
await the notification of Rules of Procedure under the 2013 local government legislation. However, this in turn would
likely not occur until after elections are held and a new administration installed.
There is also a significant technical risk. Although the project established procedures for routine and periodic
maintenance, these were piloted only for infrastructure funded by the project. The pilot would therefore need to be
scaled up, and the requisite resources mobilized, to cover all municipal infrastructure. If this is not done, then there is
a risk that works financed under the project would eventually not be adequately maintained either.
Persistent low tariffs have already undermined the rate of return on the project’s water supply investments, and may
adversely affect their future financial viability.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Bank project preparation team engaged in in-depth consultations with relevant stakeholders, especially
the TMAs, the provincial government's Local Government and Community Development Department, and the
Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company. The consultations were of a particular importance in a context of
relatively new legal and administrative structures resulting from the 2001 Local Government Ordinance. Seeking
out the views of the TMAs helped to ensure that project interventions fitted their priorities and were customized to
their needs. The requirements of the provincial authorities were also addressed, including what they would need to
monitor effectively the performance of the TMAs.
Preparation drew on lessons learned from previous Bank interventions in supporting local government and in the
urban sector, although these interventions were mostly elsewhere, since the project was the first of its nature in
Pakistan. The lessons (PAD, page 14) include: (a) the need for strong borrower ownership and a concomitant
willingness to commit the necessary resources for making sustainable institutional improvements allied with
technical assistance and training; (b) internal government procedures must be streamlined, and effective
monitoring systems established; (c) the focus with regard to sub-project identification, appraisal and
implementation should be at the level of the local agencies (in this case the TMAs); (d) to help ensure that
investments are demand-driven, municipalities should contribute to capital costs as well as assuming
responsibility for operations and maintenance; and (e) size and complexity of project-supported initiatives, while
expected to exceed past municipal efforts, must nonetheless be aligned with planning and implementation
capacity.
Relevant risks were, except for one important omission, correctly identified. Low implementing agency
procurement capacity and weak market response to bidding invitations were both rated high and both
materialized. Mitigation was to be through training and capacity building in the first case and inclusion of price
escalation clauses, increases in mobilization advances, and reduction in certain qualification criteria in the second.
The first set of mitigation measures inevitably took time, and there were serious procurement-related delays in the
early years of implementation. Capacity constraints arising from weaknesses in some of the consulting firms were
not foreseen. Risks of lags in operations and maintenance performance, and of continued dispute concerning the
application of national financial reporting standards to the Punjab were rated moderate. Risks of design and
engineering incapacity, and of inability on the part of the Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company to
perform its monitoring and supervisory roles, were rated low. The one risk not considered was the political one –
that elections and changes in the legislative framework governing local authorities might result in major structural
changes which, in turn, would threaten to undermine the project’s institutional strengthening efforts. This risk
would have been difficult to foresee at the time of appraisal, and indeed did not materialize during implementation.
It has, however, since become apparent and constitutes a significant risk to development outcome (see Section 7
above).
Provisions for managing safeguards and fiduciary compliance were adequate.
There were three moderate shortcomings in Quality at Entry. First, M&E design could have developed more
concrete outcome indicators (see Section 10a below). Second, there were notable differences between the
statement of objectives in the PAD and that in the Loan Agreement. Third, the link between the cultural heritage
activities and the project’s development objectives was not fully clear. Moreover, as noted in Section 4 above, the
preparations and institutional arrangements for carrying out these activities were less than fully adequate.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The supervision team possessed the requisite skill mix for the project and included specialists in urban
development, financial management, procurement and contract management, social development, environmental
safeguards, municipal engineering, and cultural heritage revitalization. 15 Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
were filed during the seven years of implementation, and regular missions were supplemented by shorter visits to
sub-project sites and TMAs. Resources for supervision were adequate. Continuity was good, with the co-Task
Team Leader (TTL) at the preparation stage remaining as TTL throughout implementation. Supervision reports
and Aide-Memoires were systematic and informative, and ratings largely appropriate – progress towards
achievement of Development Objectives was rated satisfactory throughout, as was Implementation Progress
except for six ISRs between the end of 2008 and the end of 2009, when it was rated moderately satisfactory. This
reflected the low disbursement rate during the period preceding and immediately following the mid-term review
(MTR, January, 2010). After corrective measures adopted at the MTR, disbursements accelerated notably. The
level 2 restructuring effective August, 2010, was appropriate and timely.
The Bank provided timely and pertinent assistance to the TMAs and implementing agencies, with which it
sustained a good working relationship. The Borrower’s ICR (ICR, Annex 7) indicates satisfaction with the technical
and advisory support provided by the Bank team in areas such as design and implementation of the performance
management system, and computerization of the financial management system.
M&E implementation was largely adequate and was carried out in the framework of the performance management
system, although no outcome indicators beyond the results of the surveys were developed (see Section 10b
below).
The ICR reports compliance with safeguards policies and (despite some early procurement-related problems) with
fiduciary policies also (see Section 11 below).


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    This Section assesses the performance of the Government of Punjab, and also the Central Government of
Pakistan to the extent that the latter’s actions or inactions affected the implementation and outcomes of the
project. The Government of Punjab, and more specifically the Local Government and Community Development
Department (LG&CDD), showed strong commitment to, and ownership of, the project during both preparation and
implementation. Although the Department's technical capacity was low at the outset, it was gradually built up, and
progress was made in developing a framework and mechanism for monitoring TMA performance. In its own
evaluation of the project, the main implementing agency, the Punjab Municipal Development Fund Company
(PMDFC), noted that LG&CDD provided support whenever a relevant policy input was required (ICR, Annex 7). It
also made substantial efforts to address project implementation issues in a timely manner, and to ensure
adequate coordination among the different stakeholders.

There were, nonetheless, three moderate shortcomings in the performance of the LG&CDD and Government
performance more generally:
 Many of the institutional changes introduced by the project still lacked legal validation at closure, thereby
presenting a significant risk to sustainability. For example, the LG&CDD was not successful in coordinating with
the Auditor General of Pakistan to recognize the outputs of the computerized financial management system as
legally recognized audits.
 During the middle part of the implementation period , continuing ambiguity on the future of the local government
system affected decision-making by TMA leadership, thereby reducing the pace of sub-project implementation,
and in turn disbursements.
 The water tariff was not increased as had been anticipated (although such increases were not a covenant or
other requirement of the project), thereby reducing to an important degree the rate of return on some project
investments. These tariffs are set by the provincial authorities and are outside the control of the TMAs.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    There were two implementing agencies: PMDFC for the components related to capacity and performance
grants to the TMAs, and the Walled City of Lahore Authority (WCLA) for the cultural heritage sub-component.
PMDFC’s performance is rated satisfactory. Although PMDFC is a government sponsored, non-profit entity,
limited by guarantee, its employment as an implementing agency brought the approach and frequently enhanced
efficiency of the corporate sector to bear on the management of a public sector project. The company was
successful in engaging the required competencies and skills to develop and implement the institutional
enhancements supported by the project. Its expertise in procurement and contract management was made
available to the TMAs, which initially had very low capacity in these areas, both directly and through hands-on
training of TMA staff. The Company monitored the application of Standard Operating Procedures for works
contracts, and also carried out periodic contract management audits. The Company managed project finances in a
satisfactory manner, and provided adequate assurance that project funds were being used for the intended
purposes. M&E, including the use of project interventions to capture data on TMA performance indicators, was
generally well managed. There was compliance with Government of Pakistan and World Bank safeguard policies,
both environmental and social (see section 11a below).
WCLA management of fiduciary and safeguards dimensions was also adequate. In addition, the successful
application of Bank safeguard policies on the removal of hundreds of encroachments in a complex urban setting is
noteworthy. However, capacity weaknesses in WCLA, including weak contract management, were an important
contributory factor to the non-completion of the cultural heritage pilot by project closure. WCLA’s performance is
rated moderately satisfactory .
Overall implementing agency performance is rated moderately satisfactory .


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    Institutional responsibility for the M&E framework was to be jointly shared by the TMAs, PMDFC and LG&CDD in
the context of the project’s performance management system. An agreed reporting format was developed including
progress reports against performance indicators developed in performance management workshops involving all
relevant stakeholders.
Rather than directly monitorable outcome indicators, there was to be reliance on “independent technical and social
audit teams,” which would provide evidence of improved effectiveness and technical and financial viability of services
provided by TMAs, as well as of satisfaction on the part of consumers. In addition, the PAD (pages 42-46) presents a
list of nine core service delivery indicators and 17 “core capacity effectiveness indicators; both lists were to be
monitored by the TMASs and by the PMDFC as part of the project-supported performance management system. They
were developed at the first performance management workshop held in Lahore. From these lists, the following
intermediate outcome indicators were chosen for M&E purposes: (a) percentage of households connected to the
water supply system; (b) percentage of street lights working; (c) percentage of solid waste disposed of daily at the
landfill site; (d) the number of TMA staff trained in information technology; (e) the number of TMAs with updated GIS
maps; (f) the number of TMAs using the computerized financial management information system to generate reports
for the annual audit of local funds; (g) the number of TMAs with updated investment plans; and (h) the number of
TMAs with at least “90% complaint resolution efficiency.” Target values were set in consultation with the TMAS. Data
generated by the performance management system allowed baseline values to be identified for most intermediate
outcome indicators.
The vague and qualitative nature of the outcome indicators was explained in the ICR by the fact that this was a
demand-driven project. However, the adequacy of this explanation is not evident. More concrete indicators could have
been developed for future application. As a minimum, the kind of information to be abstracted from the audit teams’
reports could have been specified.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Statistics related to municipal services such as water supply, refuse collection and street lighting were collected
regularly in the framework of the performance management system. These were supplemented by two Institutional
Development Assessments (IDAs) administered in 19 TMAs before the mid-term review, and in 37 TMAs (including
the original 19) in 2012. In addition, a Beneficiary Perception Survey on Infrastructure Investments was administered
in 2012-13 by an external consulting firm, to gauge beneficiary satisfaction levels with completed infrastructure
investments. The ICR (page 10) states that these exercises provided the information necessary to evaluate the
achievement of the outcome and intermediate outcome indicators.

c. M&E Utilization:
  There is little discussion in the ICR of the utilization of the M&E framework.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category “A” for Environmental Assessment purposes. In addition to Environmental
Assessment (OP 4.01), two safeguard policies were triggered: Cultural Property (OP 4.11) and Involuntary
Resettlement (OP 4.12).
Environment. The PAD (page 16) reports that PMDFC prepared an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) that would be applied to all sub-projects, and that “appropriate environmental review and
appraisal steps have been integrated into PMDFC’s overall project appraisal process” (page 24). The ICR (page 11)
reports that “environmental safeguards aspects of sub-projects were managed in compliance with relevant Bank
environment policies.” The ICR (page 10) states that “the ESMF was used to screen all development grants for their
anticipated environmental and social impacts, and included extensive public consultations with multiple categories of
stakeholders.” PMDFC’s environmental management system is described as “robust” (ICR, page 10). It “exercised
due diligence of Pakistan and Punjab environmental regulations, and implemented site specific mitigation measures
identified and designed in environmental management plans” (pages 10-11). Moreover, PMDFC exceeded normal
requirements through activities such as training of TMAs’ environmental management staff and organizing public
hearings for sub-projects. The project also assisted in developing the capacity of the provincial Environmental
Protection Department in a number of areas, including development of checklists and conduct of public consultations
(now routine) and development of Environment and Social Impact Assessments for Category A sub-projects (for
example, solid waste management and waste water disposal).
Cultural Property. According to the PAD (page 25), planned investments were to be localized and designed so as to
minimize the impact on cultural property. In addition, the cultural heritage component aimed to strengthen the capacity
of the authorities to manage existing assets. In this context, it was considered that a separate cultural heritage plan
would not be necessary. There is no discussion of this safeguard in the ICR.
Involuntary Resettlement. This was mainly related to the cultural heritage activities under Component 2. The ICR
(page 10) reports that “social safeguards were implemented in a satisfactory manner through ….. a Resettlement
Framework.” A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was implemented in the Walled City of Lahore pilot project area.
“Some 147 shops and 264 encroachments were removed, and 732 shops were provided temporary support. The
scale of consultations was significant, with more than a thousand meetings conducted during RAP implementation.
Through creating a replicable model of resettlement and citizen engagement in urban cultural heritage conservation,
the project has created a demonstration effect and built staff capacity to manage social issues in a complex setting.”

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management. The ICR (page 11) reports that financial management was rated satisfactory in supervision
reports throughout implementation. Relevant staff in the TMAs and PMDFC remained in place. As noted in Section 4
above, financial management systems in 102 TMAs were computerized, thereby contributing to more efficient
budgeting and accounting and upward reportingFinancial Management. The ICR (page 11) reports that financial
management was rated satisfactory in supervision reports throughout implementation. Relevant staff in the TMAs and
PMDFC remained in place. As noted in Section 4, financial management systems in 102 TMAs were computerized,
thereby contributing to more efficient budgeting and accounting as well as reporting upwards to the provincial level.
The ICR states that externally audited financial statements were mostly produced by the due date and that “auditors’
performance was satisfactory.” However, the ICR does not specify whether or not external auditors’ opinions were
qualified (the project team subsequently informed IEG that the opinions were unqualified).
Procurement: As anticipated during preparation, procurement experienced difficulties in the initial years of
implementation due to limited capacity in the TMAs and weak responses to bidding invitations in the wake of the major
earthquake of 2005. Two rounds of bidding were unsuccessful. Following workshops with potential bidders,
qualification requirements were eased, performance guarantees reduced, and price adjustment clauses introduced
into all contracts. These measures, together with technical assistance and capacity building programs, enabled
procurement to be accelerated in the period following the mid-term review (January, 2010). Standard operating
procedures improved contract management. Two non-performing firms were debarred, a rare occurrence in Punjab.
There were no recorded cases of mis-procurement.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory             Moderately             Relevance of both objectives and
                                                       Satisfactory           design is rated substantial. On balance,
                                                                              efficacy is rated substantial, reflecting
                                                                              evidence of advances made in
                                                                              institutional strengthening and service
                                                                              delivery, although some targets were
                                                                               not met. Efficiency is rated modest –
                                                                               ERRs were calculated ex post for only
                                                                               four sub-projects, and; the ERR for one
                                                                               of those is well below the discount rate.
                                                                               Administrative and operational
                                                                               inefficiencies contributed to a three year
                                                                               delay in project completion.
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately         The ICR Data Sheet rates Quality at
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory       Entry moderately satisfactory, as does
                                                                               the main text on page 7. However, on
                                                                               page 21, the ICR rates Quality at Entry
                                                                               as fully satisfactory. The project team
                                                                               subsequently informed IEG that the
                                                                               moderately satisfactory rating is the
                                                                               valid one. The ICR rates overall Bank
                                                                               performance as fully satisfactory in both
                                                                               the Data Sheet and on page 22 of the
                                                                               main text. Since Quality at Entry is
                                                                               moderately satisfactory, this is
                                                                               inconsistent with the Harmonization
                                                                               Criteria.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          Moderate shortcomings in the
                                                            Satisfactory        performance of the provincial
                                                                                government included lack of legal
                                                                                validation for important institutional
                                                                                changes introduced by the project,
                                                                                continuing ambiguity on the future of
                                                                                the local government system, and
                                                                                maintaining artificially low water tariff,
                                                                                thereby the rate of return on some
                                                                                project investments.
                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 IEG draws the following lessons from the experience of preparing and implementing this project:
  Project implementation and evaluation are assisted by consistent development objectives in the project
    documents. In this case, there are important discrepancies between the statement of objectives in the PAD
    and that in the Loan Agreement.
  Activities undertaken under the project are more easily justified if they are seen to be clearly related to the
    statement of objectives as written. In this case, the link between the objectives and the cultural heritage
    activities was less than fully clear.
  Implementation and evaluation of a project rely on a robust M&E framework incorporating concrete and
    specific outcome indicators. In this case, there was reliance on institutional development assessments and
    beneficiary surveys to evaluate outcomes, and the project documents do not make clear what kind of
    information it was expecting from these exercises. As a consequence, the evidential basis for the outcome
    evaluation in the ICR was less strong than it might have been.
  Although political changes are difficult to predict, an analysis of the political economy of local government in
    Punjab could have provided more insights into the risks to development outcome resulting from changes in
    political structures.
14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

Given the centrality of the results of the Institutional Development Assessments (IDAs) for evaluating the outcomes of
the project, considerably more information regarding the Assessments’ conclusions should have been provided in the
ICR (in an Annex if necessary). With a few exceptions (such as the discussion of the time taken to complete
infrastructure sub-projects), the ICR lacks concrete examples and quantitative evidence both from the Assessments
and more generally. It is unclear from the ICR whether the information is not available in the Assessments, or whether
the lack of evidence is the result of poor reporting (an examination of the IDAs themselves, supplied by the project
team, suggests the latter). Several important statements are unsupported by evidence -- for example, that the
computerized financial management system has facilitated the recovery of arrears. It is stated that tariffs were not
adjusted as anticipated and that this undermined the rate of return of project investments, but not what the expected
increase in tariffs was or why it was not authorized.
There are other shortcomings:
   More explanation on the lack of legal validation for project-supported institutional changes and auditing
     procedures would have been useful.
   The general (that is, non-project specific ) lessons learned tend towards banality or even tautology (for example,
     “institutional development requires persistence and diligence to unfold and achieve sustainable results,” or
     “continuity of financial management staff and requisite capacity building at operational as well as managerial
     tiers, helps in effective financial management”). Moreover, it is not stated how or whether these lessons are
     rooted in the empirical experience of the project.
   Why does the fact that the project’s precise activities were demand driven impeded the development of concrete
     indicators?
   Actual project costs by component are supplied in Pakistan rupees, but not in US dollars.
   There is no reporting on the utilization of the M&E framework.
   It is not stated whether or not external auditors’ opinions were unqualified.
   There is inconsistency between the moderately satisfactory rating of Quality at Entry in the Data Sheet and on
     page 7 of the main text and the fully satisfactory rating on page 21.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
