Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21921-UNI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 90.2 MILLION
(US$114.29 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
May 21, 2001
Private Sector Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2001)
Currency Unit = Naira
N 1 = US$0.007416
US$1 = N 134.85
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   to -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPE    Bureau of Public Enterprises                     MIS        Management Information System
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                      M-Tel      Nigerian Mobile Telecommunications Limited (Ltd.)
CDF    Comprehensive Development Framework              NBC        National Broadcast Commission
CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment      NaCC       National Control Center
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Report            NCB        National Competitive Bidding
DFID   Department for Intemational Development          NCC        Nigerian Communications Commission
of the United Kingdom
DPP    Detailed Procurement Plan                        NCP        National Council on Privatization
EMCAP Economic Management Capacity Credit               NEPA       National Electric Power Authority
EPIC   Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation      NEPP       National Electric Power Policy
Committee
EPP    Emergency Power Program                          NERC       National Electricity Regulatory Commission
FAAN  Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria              NFMC       National Frequency Management Council
FAD    Finance & Administration/Accounts Department     NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
FEC    Federal Executive Council                        NITEL      Nigerian Telecommunication Limited (Ltd.)
FGN    Federal Government of Nigeria                    NNPC       Nigerian National Petroleum Company
FMAP  Financial Management Action Plan                  OCSPR    Procurement Services Policy Group
FMF   Federal Ministry of Finance                       PAD        Project Appraisal Document
FMOC  Federal Ministry of Communications                PE         Public Enterprise
FMPS  Federal Ministry of Power and Steel               POMC       Project Oversight & Monitoring Committee
FMS   Financial Management System                       PPF        Project Preparation Facility
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                           PPI        Private Participation in Infrastructure
GPP    Global Procurement Plan                          PSP        Privatization Support Project
GPN    General Procurement Notice                       QCBS       Quality Cost Based Selection
GPSP   Global Procurement Strategic Plan                RFP        Request for Proposal
ICB    Intemational Competitive Bidding                 ROT        Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer
IDA    Intemational Development Association             SBD        Standard Bidding Document
IFC     Intemational Finance Corporation                SME        Small and Medium Enterprise
IMF    International Monetary Fund                      SPE        Special Purpose Entity
IPP     Independent Power Producers                     SRIC       Sector Reform Implementation Committee
ITU     International Telecommunications Union          SSA        Sub-Saharan Africa
LSG    Lagos State Government                           TSRIC      Telecommunications Sector Reform Implementation Committee
LSWC  Lagos State Water Corporation                     USAID      United States Agency for International Development
MIGA   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:           Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager/Director:         Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Paul Ballard



NIGERIA
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      13
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      15
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        23
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           23
2. Financial                                                                          23
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      24
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29
2. Critical risks                                                                     31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     33



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           33
2. Other                                                                             34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         36
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        36
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         37
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        51
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  52
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      63
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           77
Annex 11: Project Implementation Framework and Action Plan                              79
MAP(S)



NIGERIA
PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: May 21, 2001                                Team Leader: Paul Ballard
Country Manager/Director: Mark D. Tomlinson       Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba
Project ID: P070293                               Sector(s): DV - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Energy; Private Sector; Telecom & Informatics;
Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    I ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 114.29
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      68.43          14.97         83.40
IDA                                                           23.35          90.94        114.29
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                           0.00          16.43         16.43
BRMSH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                             0.00          10.84         10.84
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                                        91.78         133.18        224.96
Borrower: THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
Responsible agency: THE BUREAU OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE)
Address: Plot number 2876, Osun Crescent by Ibrahim Babangida Way - Maitama District, P.M.B. 442, Garki-Abuja
Contact Person: Mr. Nasir el-Rufai Director General
Tel: 234-9-413-4637                Fax: 234-9-413-4665               Email: bpegen@micro.com.ng,
Bpe@bpeng.org, http//www.bpe.bpeng.org
Other Agency(ies):
The Nigerian Communications Commission; the Federal Ministry of Commnunications; the Federal Ministry of Power and
Steel; the National Electric Power Authority; the Lagos State Water Corporation.
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY      j  2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007
Annual   12.91       28.05      28.41      25.85     15.82       3.25
Cumulative    12.91     40.96      69.37      95.22     111.04    114.29
Project implementation period: 5.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
COSPADF,, Rev Ma, 20)0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's development objectives are: (1) to support transparent and effective implementation of the
Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)'s privatization program, as a basis for fostering accelerated
economic growth, through expanded private investment and improved efficiency in the productive sectors,
and in infrastructure; and (2) to create an enabling environment for private sector participation and
competition in infrastructure services, notably in telecommunications and electric power.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators for these objectives are:
(i) Expanded private investment, productivity and employment:
Under the FGN's privatization program during 2001-05, about one hundred PEs in industry,
agriculture, services and infrastructure will be transferred to private ownership. This will
accelerate economic growth and reduce fiscal drain to PEs, through significant
improvements in output, investTnent, efficiency and employment in the privatized and
liberalized sectors, and contribute to capital market expansion.
(ii) Increased Private Participation and Efficiency in Infrastructure:
In telecommunications, the Nigerian Telecommunication Limited (NITEL) will be privatized
by end-2001, and competition will be introduced from 2001 by opening up all segments of
the market. In electric power, the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) will be
restructured from a fully integrated utility into separate business units for transmission,
generation and distribution by 2002. Some generation plants will be concessioned to private
operators during 2001 and 2002, distribution entities will be privatized in 2003 and 2004, and
some generations plants will be sold to private investors and operators from 2003 to 2006. In
the Lagos State water sector, an international tender for private sector participation through
concessioning will take place by end-2001.
(iii) Creation of Pro-Competitive and Transparent Markets and Regulatory Frameworks in
Infrastructure:
The FGN will create pro-competitive regulatory frameworks, with a cost-effective
institutional set-up, for the principal infrastructure sectors to be privatized. This will permit
entry of new private operators on a competitive, level-playing-field basis. In
telecommunications and electric power, FGN has adopted policy statements differentiating
clearly the roles and responsibilities of policy making, regulation and ownership. Based upon
these, new telecommunications and electricity laws will be presented to the National
Assembly for approval in 2001. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), as an
independent agency, will extend its mandate to regulate all telecommunication services and
infrastructure providers by 2001. A new independent agency will be established to regulate
the power sector.
(iv) Increased Basic Infrastructure and Utilities' Services in Rural and Urban Areas:
The project will support expanded and lower cost access to basic infrastructure services,
through expanded private participation in these sectors: (a) in telecommunications,
tele-density will be increased to over 1 line per 100 inhabitants by 2003; and the number of
- 2 -



villages with access to communication facilities will be doubled by 2005; (b) in electric
power, metered connections will be increased by 1 million households by 2006, from the
present level of about 2.5 million, and operational generation capacity and revenues earned
will be increased substantially; (c) in Lagos State, water production by Lagos State Water
Corporation (LSWC) will double by end-2005 through efficiency gains by private operators
in terms of market coverage, reduced technical losses and customer billings and collections,
which will increase by fifty percent.
(v) Reduced Public Deficit for PEs, notably in Infrastructure:
The fiscal drain from PEs' claims on FGN's budget will be reduced: (a) in
telecommunications, tax revenues from service providers will substantially increase; and (b) in
electric power, FGN funding of costs of rehabilitating NEPA's generation and distribution
facilities would cease from 2003. In the Lagos State water sector, government subsidies will
cease, but concessional finance would be sought and on-lent to private operators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20309             Date of latest CAS discussion: 5/11/00
TIhe World Bank Group's Interim Country Strategy Note was discussed at a Board meeting on May 11,
2000. This project will be presented to the Board together with a joint World Bank-IFC Interim Strategy
Update. A basic principle guiding the World Bank Group's strategy is to help the Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) build capacity to manage its resources effectively and implement policies that will attract
private investment to enhance economic efficiency and growth. The strategy's key elements include
technical assistance to provide advisory services for FGN's privatization program, including divestiture of
PEs in the major infrastructure sectors, notably telecommunications and power.
Tlhe Privatization Support Project (PSP) is consistent with the World Bank Group's assessment of priority
assistance needs. It will complement the Economic Management Capacity Credit (EMCAP) which is
assisting the FGN in strengthening key aspects of economic management. The PSP will support
implementation of the FGN's privatization program, and notably the sector reforms in telecommunications
and electric power. Limited support will be provided to emergency rehabilitation and private sector
participation in the water sector in Lagos State.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues: The main issues are: (a) poor performance of public enterprises, which dominate
major sectors of the economy and are a drag on economic growth, productivity, and investment; (b) misuse
of monopoly powers, notably in infrastructure, resulting in unreliable delivery and availability of services,
including for the poor; (c) excessive bureaucratic controls and government intervention; (d) inadequate
policy and regulatory frameworks which impede competition, discourage private entry and private
investrnent; (e) weak capacity to implement reform; (f) mismanagement, corruption and nepotism.
Public Enterprise Sector Structure and Performance: During the 1970s and 1980s, Nigeria developed a
large public enterprise sector covering a broad spectrum of economic activities. These covered large basic
industries, manufacturing, agriculture, services, public utilities and infrastructure. They included
telecommunications, power, steel, petrochemicals, fertilizer, vehicle assembly, banks, insurance and hotels.
There are currently about 600 public enterprises (PEs) at the federal level and about 900 smaller PEs at the
state and local levels. The estimated 1,500 enterprises account for about 30-40 percent of aggregate fixed
- 3 -



capital investment and about 50-60 percent of formal sector employment. It is estimated that successive
Nigerian governments invested over two decades about Naira 800 billion (approximately US$90 billion
equivalent) in the PE sector, which remains today one of the largest in Africa. (See Table 1) The returns on
these large investments have generally been poor, and in a number of cases negative. The presence of
non-performing PEs - some of which are currently mothballed, notably in the fertilizer, aluminum smelting,
pulp and paper, sugar and steel industries - has effectively impeded entry by potentially more efficient
private operators.
Table 1: Share of Public Enterprises in Development Indicators of Selected African Countries
Country           #of PEs       % of GDP       % of Investment      % of Employment
Nigeria           600           50%            57%                  66%
Cote d'Ivoire      150          n/a            18%                  n/a
Ghana              181          n'a            25%                  55%
Kenya              175          n/a            21%                  9%
Tanzania          420           13%            26%                  n/a
Burkina Faso      44            5%             20%                  n/a
Senegal           50            9%             33%                  n/a
Source: "Commercialization and Privatization Policy in Nigeria ", Obadan Mike, I. and Ayodele A.
Sesan, National Center for Economic Management and Administration, Ibadan, Nigeria, 1998
n/a = not available
Weak and Deteriorating Public Infrastructure Services : With services delivered by poorly performing
state enterprises, Nigeria's infrastructure has become dilapidated and unreliable. The growth and
competitive potential of the economy have been impeded by limited access to and poor delivery of services.
In electric power, telecommunications, ports, water supply, and other sectors, the major inefficiencies of
PEs add substantially to the costs of production of private firms, as well as to health problems. The
National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)'s unreliable power supply is estimated to impose an additional
cost of aTound US$1 billion annually on the economy. Only 12 percent of Nigerians have metered access to
electricity (many others have access through illegal connections). Telephone coverage is only 3 telephone
lines per 1,000 persons with most of these lines confined to the major urban centers - one of the lowest
tele-densities in the world. With escalating demand for reliable and affordable services, the general public
has stepped up its pressure for efficient public services that are more responsive to consumers. In Lagos
State, access to piped potable water is limited to less than 30% of the population. The water utility, LSWC,
is technically insolvent and close to physical collapse, due to a chronic lack of maintenance and financial
resources for emergency repairs.
-4 -



Government Strategy
Overall Government Strategy - Broad-based PE Reform: Faced with continuing poor performance of
PEs and limited managerial capacity, the FGN's strategy is to undertake a three-phase privatization
program aimed at improving efficiency, promoting transparency and realizing results in the medium-term.
The FGN has decided to transform its role from owner, financier and operator of PEs to one of
policy-maker and, where necessary, regulator for the provision of public services. A key objective is to
increase infrastructure access substantially given weak and unreliable supply.
Leral Framework for Privatization: Under the 1999 Privatization and Commercialization Act, the FGN
established the National Council on Privatization (NCP) chaired by the Vice President, to oversee the
privatization program. The Act made the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) the implementing agency and
secretariat to NCP.
The Act is based upon the FGN's realization that far-reaching reforms of PEs are needed. It embodies a
market-oriented approach, introducing private participation to reap the efficiency benefits of greater
competition, new technologies, and modem management techniques. It reflects the FGN's recognition that
earlier approaches for improving PE performance tried by previous administrations - notably
commercialization and corporatization - had not worked effectively. Since 1990, many PEs had been
corporatized, and some were partially privatized - often through issuance of shares on the Lagos Stock
Exchange. Their performance failed to improve significantly due to continued government interference
with appointments of Boards and senior staff members, policy decisions and distorted price regimes.
Federal Government of Nieeria 's Privatization Strate':. In July, 1999, the FGN adopted a
three-phased privatization program for the 1999-2004 period as follows:
Phase 1: Full divestiture of FGN's shares in banks, cement companies and oil marketing firms listed on
the Nigerian Stock Exchange;
Phase 2: Full divestiture of FGN ownership in hotels, vehicle assembly plants, and other industrial,
agricultural and service sector enterprises operating in competitive markets; and
Phase 3: Partial divestiture of FGN shares in major public enterprises operating in non-competitive,
but potentially competitive, sectors such as the telecommunication company (NITEL), the national
power company (NEPA), Nigerian Airways, and the oil refineries; as well as privatization of two
major fertilizer companies.
Of one hundred PEs in the FGN's privatization program, over fifty are in Phase 2. Phase 1 is now nearing
completion after delays due to problems in completing the sales of some companies jointly owned with
state governments - notably in the cement sector. The FGN has advanced the privatization of selected PEs
from Phase 3, notably those representing the most pressing constraints to the economy and requiring major
sector policy reforms such as telecommunications and electric power.
Priority Focus on Infrastructure: Telecommunication and Power: The FGN began preparation of the
reforms in telecommunications and electric power in early 2000. This work is now well advanced with
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) financing of consultants and advisors to help prepare modem,
market-oriented policies; design legal, regulatory and institutional frameworks; and prepare the corporate
restructuring of NEPA.
-5 -



Telecommunications Sector Reform Program : In telecommunications, a new National
Telecommunication Policy (NTP) was adopted in September 2000. This provides for full liberalization of
the market to private operators and divestiture of the two principal, state-owned telephone companies -
NITEL (the fixed line operator) and M-Tel (the mobile operator). The NTP limits the role of the
govemment to policy formulation and expands the mandate and strengthens the legal and institutional
framework of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). It aims to establish a competitive
industry structure through fixed-line and wireless licensing. As a first step in implementation of the NTP,
the FGN successfully completed a public auction of three digital mobile licenses in January 2001, and
appointed technical and financial audit consultants to carry out the necessary due diligence to prepare for
the divestiture of NITEL As a preparatory step for this, FGN announced the merger of NITEL and M-Tel
(which provides analog mobile services) under the name NITEL. FGN allocated a digital mobile license to
NITEL at a price of US$285 million (the auction price of the other digital mobile licenses).
The FGN's goals are to: (1) achieve a major expansion in access to connectivity in 2001-03 to a total of 2
million fixed and mobile lines; (2) strengthen the capacity of the Nigerian Communications Commission
(NCC) as an independent telecommunication regulator, to create a flexible regulatory environment in the
medium-term taking account of new technologies and international trends towards convergence; (3)
establish a National Frequency Management Council (NFMC), and upgrade equipment and facilities at
NCC for improved management of the radio spectrum. The NTP and strengthened regulatory framework
will reduce the market power of NITEL, through adoption of improved interconnection rules and pricing
arrangements. Initially regulatory discretion will be limited by building regulatory rules largely into
contracts and licenses.
NITEL is scheduled to be privatized by end-2001. Investment and legal advisors for this transaction are
already being recruited by BPE. The FGN recognizes the need to demonstrate that the benefits of
telecommunications' reform will accrue to both urban and rural areas. To avoid increased polarization in
service provision between urban and rural areas and to enhance rural connectivity, a demonstration rural
telecommunication program is under preparation. This will test altemative approaches to expanding access
through private investment, including rural telecoms licensing.
The project will support the design and implementation of the new legal and regulatory framework for
telecommunications; the strengthening of NCC's capacity; the privatization of NITEL; the purchase and
installation of upgraded radio frequency equipment; and the design and implementation of a demonstration
rural access program.
Power Sector Reform Program: The FGN is preparing a major reform of Nigeria's electric power sector
that includes early opening to private participation. The FGN has recently approved a new policy
statement, the National Electric Power Policy (NEPP), setting out institutional arrangements for
introducing competition and for an appropriate regulatory framework for the sector. Under the NEPP, the
govemment will focus on providing the overall direction for power sector development, ensuring the general
consistency of electric power policy with other national policies, and enacting the necessary laws,
regulations and other measures required to support its policies. The Federal Ministry of Power and Steel
(FMPS) will propose policy options to FGN conceming legislation, policy on investments, etc., monitor
and evaluate the implementation and performance of govemment policy, and establish and monitor policies
for increasing access to electricity, particularly in rural and semi-rural areas. State govenmments will have
responsibilities for the development of off-grid electrification.
The new policy lays the basis for creating an industry structure that will develop competition by
establishing a number of privately-owned or concessioned generation companies that will compete for the
- 6 -



business of distribution companies and large users of electricity. This structure would be achieved by the
following steps : (i) unbundling NEPA's vertically integrated structure into several generation and
distribution entities and a transmission entity that would also act initially as the national electricity dispatch
entity/system operator, (ii) divestiture of the state's ownership in the thermal generation and distribution
facilities, and either divestiture of the state's ownership or long-term concessioning of the hydropower
facilities, (iii) allowing private independent power producers (IPPs) and electricity suppliers to enter the
power market, and (iv) establishment of arm's-length trading mechanisms among these entities.
Competition in the wholesale power market would be developed in stages once the industry is restructured.
In the first stage, competition would be limited to competitive bidding to take over some of NEPA's thermal
power stations under medium term Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer back (ROT) concession agreements with
NEPA. This stage would also cover the competitive procurement of long-term power supply from up to
1500 MW of new generating plants developed by IPPs with the benefit of the FGN's credit support. The
second stage will start once the new entities formed from the restructuring of NEPA are formed and largely
privatized, and the new sector regulatory agency and regulations are in place. It will focus on developing
competition through rights to enter into bilateral contracts between generation and distribution companies.
Each distribution company would have a portfolio of power purchase contracts with various generators,
and each generator would have a portfolio of power sales contracts.  Short-term imbalances between
power demand and supply would be handled during this stage through a system of imbalance tariffs.
Under this, generators will be required to provide power in excess of or to curtail production below
contracted supply.
Competition in the market would be further developed over the medium-to-long term by: (i) allowing large
users of electricity to purchase directly from generators or electricity suppliers; (ii) removing retail sales
monopolies from the franchises of distribution companies; and (iii) separating the retail sales business of
distribution companies from the low voltage distribution business with limits on cross-ownership.
The new power policy provides for the establishment of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission
(NERC) as an agency independent from the government and all companies operating in the sector. The
NERC would regulate the sector with powers, duties and a constitution laid down in a new Electricity Act,
and would issue licenses to companies operating in the Nigerian power market. Through these licenses, the
NERC would be responsible for (i) decisions on regulatory approval for electricity tariffs; (ii) business and
capacity expansion plans for generation, transmission and distribution; (iii) enforcement of competition
over the transmission network including regulation of transmission connections, transmission access rights
and fair cost reflective use-of-system prices; (iv) enforcement of competition over electricity generation,
distribution and sales; (v) ensuring that major investments for expanding generation capacity are carried
out by competitive tender; (vi) setting and enforcing national quality standards; and (vii) enforcing the legal
rights of consumers. The NERC's activities would be funded from a source independent from FGN's
budget such as license fees and charges for its services to the industry. The detailed design of the new
power regulatory body will be based upon a review of institutional options, taking account of recent
international experiences.
Preparations for NEPA's restructuring and ultimate divestiture are being accompanied by a major effort to
ensure improved basic availability and reliability of power supplies in the short term. The FGN has to
address the following four short-term priorities to have a reasonable prospect of successfully moving power
generation, distribution and supply into private ownership and management: (i) fulfill its commitment to
greatly reduce power shortages by end-2001; (ii) manage the process of private entry into power generation
without jeopardizing sector viability or unduly increasing the costs of power supply; (iii) attract reputable
investors to the Nigerian power sector; and (iv) restructure NEPA's functions in preparation for
- 7 -



privatization and the development of a competitive trading environment for power. NEPA's action plan to
deal with the shortages proposes to : (a) rehabilitate its existing supply facilities, through contracting out
management of NEPA generation plants to private operators on a rehabilitate-operate-transfer (ROT)
basis; (b) competitively engage new private independent power producers (IPPs); and (c) implement an
emergency power program (EPP).
Also included under the short-term action plan are steps to : (d) implement a substantial interim tariff
increase to start the process of moving tariffs to cover costs fully, and put in place an automatic tariff
adjustment plan that accounts for changes in the exchange rate, inflation and fuel prices; (e) contract out to
private agencies the billing and collection of payments for some of NEPA's customers; (f) establish a
Special Purpose Entity (SPE) to take over NEPA's obligations to purchase power from private producers,
with adequate financial support for this purpose, and (g) undertake a program to eliminate vandalism to
major power supply facilities and substantially reduce vandalism to other power supply facilities.
The project will finance technical assistance and capacity-building required for the design and
implementation of the FGN's power sector reform program, including priority measures in the short-term
action plan. The main components cover: the creation of the new legal and regulatory framework, and of
the revised tariff system; the establishment of the new regulatory body; the creation of the new dispatch and
settlement system; the unbundling of NEPA, and privatization of the generation and distribution units of the
restructured NEPA; as well as the establishment of a regulatory and institutional framework for rural
power supply. The project will play a pivotal role in putting in place the framework within which the
massive future investments required in power supply would be undertaken. Consultancy support for the
ROT, EPP, IPP programs will be provided under the project.
FGN's Privatization Modalities and Procedures.: The FGN's privatization program is being
implemented through the appointment of competitively selected investment advisors to undertake the
preparation and execution of especially larger PE divestiture transactions, under the supervision of the
BPE. Sector-specific inter-ministerial divestiture committees under the auspices of the NCP, and chaired by
the concerned sector ministers are responsible for overseeing preparation of related sector reforms. They
include other top officials and stakeholder representatives - including from the private sector, labor unions,
professions and academia. For major PE divestitures, especially those that are currently monopolies,
notably in infrastructure, the NCP's procedures involve two stages: (a) review and reform of the sectoral
policy environment and regulatory framework to ensure transparency, efficiency and competition; followed
by (b) preparation and implementation of a divestiture strategy for the PEs in the sector.
The 1999 Privatization and Commercialization Act, categorized PEs slated for divestiture based upon : (1)
the percentage of FGN shareholding to be sold; (2) the percentages to be sold to strategic investors and to
Nigerian individuals; (3) the percentage to be retained by FGN; and (4) those PEs to be commercialized
rather than privatized. It thus distinguished the following categories : (a) 36 PEs - mainly the large strategic
ones in infrastructure, utilities, heavy industry and mining - slated for maximum 40 percent sale to
strategic investors, and at least 20 percent to Nigerian individuals, with a maximum of 40 percent to be
retained by FGN; (b) 25 PEs (cement, oil marketing, agro-allied, vehicle assembly, banks, and hotels)
slated for full divestiture; and (c) 33 PEs slated for partial or full commercialization - including river basin
authorities, media, game parks, and the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC).
Subsequently, the FGN recognized that the Act's limitations upon the percentage of share holding the FGN
could divest to strategic investors, coupled with the minimum to be held for sale later to Nigerian
individuals, could significantly limit government withdrawal from PE ownership. This risks limiting the
interest of private, and especially foreign, strategic investors in acquiring these enterprises, and reducing
- 8 -



the sales prices. In July, 2000, the FGN therefore adopted a revised policy that: (a) permits sale of up to
51 percent of a PE's share capital to strategic investors; (b) eliminates the long-term requirement of a
residual shareholding by FGN; and (c) provides for sale to Nigerian savers and investors of the balance of
shares not sold to strategic investors, subject only to the absorptive capacity of the capital market.
Privaization Process Guidelines . As other countries' privatization experiences indicate, the process and
procedures for PE divestiture transactions are key to ensuring transparency, efficiency and timeliness of
implementation. Recognizing this, in 1999 FGN adopted guidelines and a blueprint for implementation,
pursuant to the 1999 Privatization and Commercialization Act. These guidelines established a streamlined
process by which the NCP sets the broad parameters of policy and strategy for divestiture transactions, and
delegates detailed preparatory work and execution to sectoral divestiture committees, subject to NCP
clearance of key strategic decisions. Stakeholder consultation and participation are emphasized to ensure
the sustainability of the program. The BPE serves as executing agency, while BPE's director-general is a
full member of the NCP. Two modes of divestiture were adopted: (a) For very large PEs, a strategic
investor is selected first, followed by subsequent sale of shares to Nigerian investors on a broadly
distributed basis across the country and phased over time. (b) For other PEs, privatization proceeds
directly through offerings of government shares on the stock market to Nigerian investors.
Privatization Process Issues: While the guidelines aimed at ensuring greater transparency and efficiency,
they had a number of important potential short-comings : First, by mixing technical and price criteria in the
process of bidding and selection of strategic investors, they left open a significant element of subjectivity in
the final selection process. In effect, the final selection of the winning bidder could be subject to negotiation
and agreement by the NCP, rather than being based upon the outcome of competitive bidding based upon
price. Second, while in several cases they have been very effective - e.g. in power and telecoms - the
sectoral reform committees have not always worked effectively in ensuring coordination between the key
government agencies concerned - notably the privatization agency, the sector ministries and, where they
exist, the sector regulatory agencies. This resulted in difficulties coming to closure on sector policy in
some sectors, notably air transport. Thid the NCP has lacked oversight and control over key PE
management decisions (such as major new investments, incurring of new debts, disposal of assets, hiring of
new employees) in the period prior to divestiture. This leaves open the possibility of PE management
actions at odds with the reforms.
The FGN has decided to take actions to strengthen its privatization procedures, through: (1) strengthening
and improving transparency of bidding procedures; (2) formally establishing NCP authority over all key PE
decisions prior to divestiture; (3) formalizing arrangements for sale to Nigerian savers and investors of
remaining FGN shares in privatized PEs through regional allotments to ensure balanced geographic and
regional distribution, and (4) warehousing of shares through a privatization trust. (See below for details.)
Other Key Privatization Policy Issues: PE Severance Compensation and Competition Policy: Two
further issues confronting implementation of FGN's privatization program are : (a) design and adoption of a
consistent policy framework governing severance compensation of PE employees (severance pay, pensions,
etc.); and (b) establishing an effective competition and anti-trust policy framework, including an overall
institutional framework for infrastructure regulation. This is important for later divestitures in sectors other
than telecommunications and power.
PE Severance Compensation Policy: FGN recognizes that a critical element in implementation of PE
divestitures will be efficient and equitable handling of necessary pension funding, severance payments and
employee retrenchment. Many PEs to be divested have staffing levels substantially above intemational
norms for their sectors, and will need to retrench significant numbers of employees to enable private
-9-



operators to achieve the efficiency gains. It will be critical that FGN develops and adopts at an early stage
a consistent overall policy goveming severance compensation (including pensions), particularly where these
may exceed statutory severance provisions. Other countries' experiences have shown this to be vital to
ensuring an efficient, equitable, and sustainable privatization program, and to containing the fiscal costs of
retrenchment.
The project will finance technical assistance for a review of policy options in this area. The project will go
on to support consensus-building and implementation for a consistent PE retrenchment strategy and policy
framework. Work has already begun to prepare this framework, including consultations with key
stakeholders.
Competition Policy: The FGN recognizes that privatization of PEs in sectors where competitive pressures
from intemational markets may initially be limited and where monopolies exist, will call for effective
competition and regulatory policies. To provide a consistent economy-wide setting for these, and to cover
other sectors, FGN has decided to commission a review to draw up options for a competition and anti-trust
policy. No single solution has yet been determined to be the most appropriate at this time for Nigeria's
needs for competition policy and general infrastructure regulation. Whichever institutional approach is
adopted in the medium run, the regulatory rules will need to be established at the individual sectoral level,
although they should be based upon common principles linked closely to competition policy.
Emergency Repairs Support for Lagos State Water Supply Private Sector Participation: Selected
state governments with FGN support are launching efforts to divest their water supply utilities and to
increase private sector participation in the sector. An initial program involves the preparation and
implementation of a private sector participation scheme in the Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC).
The Intemational Finance Corporation (IFC) was granted a mandate in October 1999 to provide technical
support for this transaction as principal advisor. A sector reform and divestiture strategy has been
prepared (April 2000) and the Lagos State Govemment (LSG) adopted a private sector participation plan
for LSWC in December 2000. LSWC faces the risk of immediate collapse of water supply due to years of
weak maintenance, under-investment and poor management. Over US$200 million are estimated to be
required to rehabilitate and expand LSWC's facilities to meet social needs, and this will form part of the
concessioning plan for LSWC. Meantime, a moderate stop-gap investment in crucial spare parts and minor
equipment (mainly power generators), management upgrading, and strengthening of billing and collection
are required to contain the risks of system failure.
The project will finance stop-gap investments in spare parts, minor equipment replacement, in management
systems upgrading, and in strengthening of billing and collection to facilitate the program for private sector
participation in LSWC. It will also finance selected consultancy and advisory services to prepare LSWC's
private sector participation plan.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project address key constraints in the PE sector by supporting technical design, capacity building and
implementation for the FGN's PE privatization program, including reforms in two key infrastructure
sectors - telecommunications and electric power.
Privatization and Sector Reform: The project will support implementation of the govemment's
three-phase strategy of PE privatization, particularly Phases Two and Three. This will be through
capacity-building in key institutions ( NCP, BPE) and general transactions assistance to facilitate and
accelerate privatization of selected PEs in the productive sectors, services, and infrastructure.
- 10 -



Policy Framework for the FGN's Privatization Program: The project will support adoption of
strengthened guidelines and procedures for PE divestiture to ensure efficiency and transparency. The FGN
will undertake the following actions:
(a) Bidding Procedures for Large PE Divestiture Transactions, notably in infrastructure, will be
strengthened and made more objective by: (1) using pre-qualification (rather than business plans) to
ensure that bidders have strong technical and financial credentials, and that they respond on a uniform
basis to government policy requirements for the particular PE (as spelled out in the information
memorandum); (2) after pre-qualification, basing final selection of the winning bidder upon a single
pre-defined financial parameter (in most cases it will be the highest share purchase price, but it could
take the form of the highest concession fee or the lowest tariff; (3) public opening of ftnancial bids
publicized and broadcast in the media, followed by expeditious (within one week) government final
approval of the bid outcome; (4) front-loading the divestiture process, with bidders conducting due
diligence before submitting financial bids, together with pre-signed contracts and bid bonds. This will
facilitate timely closure, without need of ex post negotiations. These changes will contribute to a "level
playing-field" for private investors. In effect, the above steps would mean that non-price factors are
taken into account through: (i) pre-qualification of bidders meeting the stipulated criteria on a pass-fail
basis; (ii) use of weights - explicitly stated in the bidding documents - applied to price bids. On this
basis, as now, BPE would submit the three highest scoring bids to NCP, recommending a winner for
approval, based upon the bid outcome.
(b) Bidding Procedures for Large PEs will apply to private contracting out of infrastructure and
public services, including IPPs, ROTs and EPPs in the power sector.
(c) Bidding Procedures for Smalter PE transactions will be accelerated and made less costly by using
simplified techniques, such as asset sales, liquidations and auctions, where appropriate.
(d) Privatization Council (NCP) Authority over Key PE Decisions, will be officially established -
through publication in the Official Gazette.
(e) Arrangements for Sale of Remaining FGN Shares in Privatized PEs will be made public through
issuance of guidelines in the Official Gazette. These will cover the system of regional allotments, and
the proposed share warehousing system in a "privatization trust" - that is to be managed by a
competitively selected private fund manager.
(f) Liberalized Shareholding Limits for Strategic Investors (of up to 51 percent of a PE's share
capital) will be made public through the Official Gazette.
(g) Strengthening of Coordination between Sector Policy Reforms and Privatization, through issuance
of official instructions in the Official Gazette conferring authority on the Sector Reform
Implementation Committees (SRICs) for coordination and for submission of policy recommendations
to the NCP prior to consideration by the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
(h) Adoption by FGN and wide publication among stakeholders of a Privatization Process and
Procedures Manual based upon the above principles and practices.
The project will also support the design and adoption of a consistent policy governing PE employee
severance compensation.
- 11 -



The project gives priority to reform and privatization in the telecommunications and electric power sectors
because of: (i) their importance to increased economic efficiency and activity, growth and employment -
especially in the private sector; (ii) their scope for improving living standards by expanding access to
services in these sectors from their present low levels; (iii) their large investment needs, that cannot be
financed and managed by the state alone and require private sector participation; (iv) their requirements for
longer term capacity-building support, to achieve the transition from state-operated to privately run, more
competitive sectors.
Infrastructure Regulation and Liberalization: The project will support the establishment, prior to PE
divestiture, of legal and regulatory frameworks, and of sector-specific regulatory rules. These will be aimed
at balancing the interests of investors, consumers and government; providing clear, consistent and
independent regulation; and minimizing government interference and the scope for corruption.
Initially, regulation will be largely based upon standard rules (governing such issues as price adjustments,
interconnection, contract renegotiation, conflict resolution, etc.) built into licenses, contracts and concession
agreements, with limited scope for regulatory discretion. Discretionary approaches, where needed, will be
adopted gradually once regulatory capacity and experience are established.
Institutional Support, Capacity-Buildin2, and Communications: To ensure the sustainability of the
reforms, the project will strengthen the concerned government institutions, as well as the procedures for
undertaking the reforms and measures to build support among the public at large.
Institutional Support and Capacity Building:   The project will provide support for programs of capacity
building and training of BPE staff, as well as study tours and awareness raising for representatives of other
key stakeholder groups. Long term international advisors and highly qualified Nigerian professionals will
be hired. In addition, an international expert team with privatization experiences has been hired to provide
up-to-date knowledge and experience in privatization. Training will be provided in preparation and
execution of complex large divestiture transactions, design of related regulatory reforms, and financial,
legal, economic and corporate management aspects. BPE will arrange training in these areas - through
contracting out to a qualified and experienced training organization. BPE also plans to send selected staff
to privatization agencies overseas for short-term on-the-job training. To build stakeholder support, study
tours will be undertaken for key stakeholder group representatives (notably parliamentarians, government
officials, labor and other civil society representatives). To help strengthen the capacity of Nigeria's
judiciary to address commercial and business law issues related to PE divestiture, NCP has agreed with the
leadership of the judiciary to undertake a training program for judges and court officials in these aspects of
commercial and business law.
Communications and Public Awareness:        FGN recognizes the need for a comprehensive and
broad-based communications and public awareness program. The main elements of its program are: (a)
intemational marketing and promotion both for the overall privatization program, as well as for specific PE
divestiture transactions (aimed at eliciting interest of potential strategic investors); (b) nationwide and
regional publicity and awareness programs through the general media, focus groups, and locally organized
publicity and outreach campaigns; (c) nationwide and regional publicity and information campaigns to
elicit investor and saver interest in purchasing shares in PEs; and (d) speeches and presentations
internationally, nationally and locally by senior FGN officials involved in the implementation of the
privatization program.
- 12 -



Limited Equipment Support: The project focuses mainly upon capacity-building and providing technical
and institutional support. However, limited accompanying investments in equipment will be supported.
These are aimed at: (1) building FGN's technical capacity for effective radio spectrum management in the
teleconununications sector, which is vitally needed given the increasing importance of wireless
technologies; and (2) supporting emergency rehabilitation and repairs in the Lagos State Water Corporation
(LSWC), designed to facilitate divestiture by preventing prior system failure.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
_~~~~~~~ML   Tta                                               ' - financ>Tpt Uin
1. General Privatization Support   Privatization      43.20      19.2      39.89      34.9
2. BPE Institutional Support       Privatization      57.21      25.4      12.77      11.2
3. Privatization Consensus Building  Privatization    66.47      29.5       8.43       7.4
4. Telecommunications Sector Reform   Telecommunicati    18.49     8.2     16.96      14.8
ons &
Informatics
5. Electric Power Sector Reform    Electric Power &   25.23       11.2     24.62      21.5
Other Energy
Adjustment
6. Lagos State Water Corporation -  Urban Water       14.36       6.4      11.62      10.2
Restructuring and Private Sector   Supply
Participation
Total Project Costs                 224.96     100.0    114.29      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                  224.96      100.0    114.29      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports key elements of the FGN's privatization program and infrastructure reforms:
* strengthening of the po&lcY framework for PE divestiture, including streamlining of
procedures for divestiture, capacity building in BPE and NCP, and adoption of a
consistent policy for PE severance compensation. Key elements of the project are adoption
by FGN of : (1) transparent guidelines and bidding procedures for PE divestiture
transactions; and (2) institutional arrangements for strengthening coordination of
decision-making on privatization with related sector policy reforms;
* implementation of legal and regulatory reforms in the electric power sector, and
restructuring. unbundling and divestiture of NEPA, including a short-term action plan,
aimed at: (i) major improvements in supplies and service reliability; (ii) efficiency
- 13 -



improvements for private business; and (iii) expanded access generally and for rural areas
This will be acheived through competitive private sector entry, investment and operation;
*   implementation of telecommunications sector liberalization, regulatory reform. and
privatization of NITEL aimed at major expansion in connectivity through private
investment and entry of new private operators. This will improve service quality, expand
rural access and lead to more affordable tariffs, due to competition;
*   implementation of Phases Two and Three of FGN's privatization program, focused upon
roll-back of state involvement in kev productive sectors, services, and infrastructure,
through divestiture of about one hundred PEs. This will improve economic efficiency in the
non-oil sectors and expand private-sector led growth;
*   facilitation of private sector participation in the Lagos State Water Corporation, through
emergency repairs and interim management strengthening to prevent system failure prior to
divestiture, as well as provision of specialized consultancy services.
The FGN has adopted new national policy frameworks for telecommunications (in September 2000) and
for electric power (in March 2001). A new law for each sector will be presented to the National Assembly
for approval and enacted by end-2001.
All transactions for PE divestitures will be carried out in line with the privatization guidelines and bidding
procedures to be adopted in 2001 by FGN. The main elements and principles of these have been agreed
with the International Development Association (IDA) at credit negotiations. The FGN and the World
Bank Group will regularly monitor compliance with this framework during project implementation.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main project benefits will be: (a) increased economic growth resulting from increased investment and
efficiency by the private sector; (b) lower public sector deficits; (c) lower cost, improved infrastructure
services for business and residential consumers; and (d) reduced poverty levels, due to improved access to
and availability of infrastructure at more affordable prices.
The privatization of PEs in the power, telecommunication and urban water sector will initially improve
access and affordability for urban consumers. However, the rural access programs in electric power and
teleconmmunications - to be supported by the project - will put in place affordable private and community
supply in rural areas. The new regulatory frameworks to be adopted will encourage these initiatives and
ensure inter-connection with the main national networks. Rural and other poor consumers will thus also
benefit from the project. In the urban water sector, the Lagos Water private sector participation plan is
expected to be the first in a series of such initiatives in the Nigerian states. They will be complemented by
programs supporting private and community-based small-scale water supply in secondary towns and
villages - for which separate World Bank Group assistance is under preparation. Improved infrastructure
will in particular assist small and medium enterprises (SMEs) for whom current deficiencies pose a larger
constraint to expanding output and productivity and growth than for large private firms.
In the productive sectors - notably in energy-based industries such as fertilizers and aluminum smelting, as
well as sugar - the privatization of existing and currently mothballed PEs will open opportunities for new
private investment. Privatization will overcome uncertainties concerning government intentions which pose
a major impediment to new investors entering the market concemed.
- 14 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: The project will be implemented over a five-year period (2001-06).
Executing Agency:    The executing agency for the FGN's privatization program is the National Council
on Privatization (NCP).
The NCP is chaired by the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Its members include all
Cabinet ministers and top FGN officials with overall economic policy functions. These include the Minister
of Finance, the Chief Economic Adviser and Minister of Planning, and the Governor of the Central Bank.
The NCP also co-opts the concerned sector minister responsible for a given PE when decisions are made on
the privatization of that enterprise and on related sector policies.
The NCP has established five Committees -- Policy and Monitoring, Technical, Finance, Publicity and
Mobilization, and Transactions Marketing. The committees oversee and provide advisory support to key
aspects of the privatization program. They include senior FGN officials as well as private sector and other
stakeholder representatives, appointed for their professional expertise and integrity.
For each major sector undergoing policy reformn and privatization, the NCP has established a sector reform
implementation committee (SRJC). Their function is to guide and oversee the preparation and
implementation of sector reforms. There are eleven SRICs covering oil and gas, aviation, transport,
industry, agriculture, tourism, solid minerals, insurance, water resources, in addition to the Electric Power
Sector Reform Implementation Committee (EPIC) and the Telecommunications Sector Reform
Implementation Committee, (TSRIC). The SRICs are chaired by the respective line ministers, who report
to the Vice President. The committees are essentially consultative and advisory fora for key stakeholders.
Sector policy and regulatory issues, and design of sector policy reforms, are the responsibility of the line
ministries. Meanwhile, the NCP and BPE are responsible for overseeing and managing privatization
strategy and transactions. To ensure consistency in decision-making for privatization and for related sector
policy reforms, in September 2000 FGN decided that sector policy and regulatory reforms related to
privatization are to be reviewed by the respective SRIC, prior to submission to the NCP for approval.
Implementing Agencies: The implementing agencies for project will be as follows:
(a)    The Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) is responsible for the management of the FGN's
privatization program - including the corporate restructuring and privatization programs for
telecommunications (NITEL) and power (NEPA). The BPE is also responsible for recruitment and
supervision of the technical consultants assisting the telecommunications and electric power
SRICs. The BPE will implement the communications and public awareness programs for the
FGN's privatization program. The BPE serves as secretariat for the NCP and its five standing
committees, as well as for the SRICs. The BPE is headed by a Director-General reporting to the
Vice President of Nigeria. The incumbent was appointed in November, 1999 and has strong prior
private sector experience and professional credentials. The BPE has a staff of about 100
professionals. While a number of these have financial, legal, economic and corporate skills, their
experience is limited on large, complex infrastructure PE divestitures linked to sector and
regulatory reform programs. The BPE is strengthening its capacity by recruiting a small
inter-disciplinary professional advisory group ( or "core team") within its current structure. This
- 15-



team of ten highly qualified Nigerian professionals - hired from the private sector on a contract
basis - is being funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). So
far, four have been recruited and an additional six are being recruited in 2001.
(b)    The Telecommunications Sector Reform Implementation Committee (TSRIC) will
work with the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on development of a universal access
strategy and in defining the optimal institutional arrangements to implement the strategy and carry
out demonstration projects.
(c)    The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) will be responsible for
implementation of the regulatory strengthening sub-component, and the radio frequency
management sub-component of the project. It will also work with the TSRIC on execution of the
rural access sub-component.
(d)    The Federal Ministry of Power and Steel (FMPS) will be responsible for
implementation of the national power policy, as well as for the sub-component supporting
expansion of non-grid power access in rural and urban areas. However, procurement and payment
of consultants for these studies will be handled by BPE.
(e)   The EPP Task Force of NCP, headed by the Chairman of the Board of NEPA will be
responsible for implementation of the sub-component fnancing the ROT and EPP advisory
services. BPE, as secretariat for the task force, will handle procurement and payment of the
consultants.
(f)    The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to be established under the
project would, once established, be responsible for implementing the power sector regulatory
sub-component.
(g)    The Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) will be responsible for implementation of
the Lagos State Water Corporation project component, through onlending arrangements with LSG
and from FGN to LSG.
Project Management and Coordination: Under the project, the principal implementing agencies (BPE,
NCC, LSWC, and NERC ) will each build strengthened capacity to handle procurement and financial
management. The BPE will be responsible for overall coordination of project implementation and
monitoring among the implementing agencies.
The BPE is strengthening its own capacity to handle procurement, financial management, and reporting
functions through recruitment of an experienced project accountant and a procurement specialist (initially
for one year). These strengthened capabilities will backstop and give technical support to the BPE sector
teams handling the PE divestiture transactions. The project will also provide capacity building to
strengthen BPE's sectoral teams - notably initially for power and telecoms.
Project Oversight and Monitoring Committee: To ensure effective cross-agency coordination and
oversight of the PSP, a Project Oversight and Monitoring Committee (POMC) will be established under the
chairmanship of the Minister of Finance in his capacities as deputy chairman of the NCP. The POMC will
comprise the chief executives of each of the implementing agencies and will meet at least biannually. Its
functions will be to : (a) oversee and monitor physical implementation and use of project and counterpart
- 16 -



funds; (b) to serve as a "clearing house" for coordination of activities among the PSP implementing
agencies - including preparation and monitoring of annual work plans and budgets, and allocation of
resources, including counterpart funds; and (c) bring to the attention of FGN, as needed, actions required to
improve project implementation and management. External financial consultants will be retained for the
project as a whole by the largest implementing agency - BPE. They will report to the POMC and will
prepare consolidated project accounts and progress reports.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: The BPE will monitor and evaluate implementation of the reform
programs supported by the project, and will publish quarterly and annual progress reports. BPE will
conduct, with the assistance of specialist independent consultants, periodic evaluations (every 24 months)
of the economic impact of the FGN's privatization program in terms of its benefits to the national economy
and to the sectors involved. The BPE will make available to all participating financiers copies of the reports
produced by consultants under the PSP as well as those produced by supervision missions.
Financial Management and Auditing:
At the time of credit effectiveness, the BPE, the NCC and the LSWC will be the principal implementing
agencies for the project. In due course, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) will be
established as the fourth principal implementing agency. Each of these agencies is expected to operate a
separate Special Account for its respective project component. Prior to funds being released for the NERC
component, a World Bank Group financial management specialist will assess NERC to ensure that
appropriate financial management (capacity, internal controls and external audit) and procurement
arrangements are in place. Each agency's finance and administration (or accounts) department (FAD) will
be responsible for ensuring compliance with financial management, procurement and reporting procedures
acceptable to the government, the World Bank Group and other collaborating partners, for their respective
project components.
Each implementing agency's financial management system (FMS) must be capable of producing timely,
relevant and reliable financial information enabling its management to plan, implement, and monitor the
agency's progress towards the achievement of its project objectives. For this, their FMSs will be developed
in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plans presented in Annex 5. Salient features of the
Action Plans include: appointment of a Financial Management Committee for BPE and strengthening of the
existing Management Committees at NCC and LSWC; staff recruitment and capacity building; preparation
of a Financial Procedures Manual; establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts Register;
monthly bank reconciliations; quarterly reporting of financial information. The project financial
consultants to be retained by BPE (see above) will prepare quarterly consolidated financial statements and
progress reports; cash flow management, including variance analysis; independent monitoring by internal
and external auditors.
By credit effectiveness, the implementing agencies will not have in place FMSs that can provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely inforrnation as required by the World Bank Group for
PMR-based disbursements, i.e. the project Management Report (PMR). However, the appointment of key
accounting and procurement staff in each agency, coupled with development of their respective
computerized financial management systems, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness. A financial management review of the project will
be undertaken by a World Bank Group financial management specialist within 12 months of credit
effectiveness to assess progress. Meanwhile, in the short-term, existing disbursement procedures will be
followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment.
- 17 -



Retro-active Financing: Several project components are already under implementation. At credit
negotiations, retro-active financing of 10 percent of the credit amount ($11.42 million) was requested by
the FGN and agreed by IDA. This will meet eligible financing requirements for: (a) BPE ($8.0 million) for
ongoing telecoms and power sector reform design, and general privatization support; (b) LSWC ($3.0
million) for payments to contractors for emergency repairs and consultants to prepare private participation
in LSWC; and (c) NCC ($0.42 million) for telecommunications reform.
Co-financing: Co-financing for the project is envisaged from other donor agencies - on a parallel financing
basis. The United States Agency for Intemational Development (USAID) is providing support to BPE for
capacity-building, training and technical assistance for divestiture implementation. USAID has committed
US$2 million and plans further financial support over 2001-06 to both BPE and NEPA. This support will
include financing: (i) the "core team" of contract Nigerian professionals to support BPE's Director-General
in managing the privatization program; (ii) support for consensus-building with key stakeholder groups,
including trade unions and the private sector; for reviews of business environment factors affecting PE
divestitures in specific sectors; and for capacity building for BPE; and (iii) engineering and management
consultants to strengthen NEPA's organizational capability to unbundle its functions and to set up internal
cost and profit centers. Total USAID cofinancing support for the PSP over 2001-06 is expected to be
US$16.43 million. Cofinancing of US$10.84 million equivalent by the United Kingdom Department for
International Development (UK-DFID) is indicatively planned. This will be mainly for recruitment of
international sector specialists, training and capacity building in BPE, consensus building and
communications.
Procurement: Each implementing agency ( BPE, LSWC, NCC, and later NERC) will have responsibility
for procurement activities for its respective project component. To address presently inadequately
experienced procurement personnel, procurement consultants will be retained by each agency. This will
ensure compliance with World Bank Group procurement procedures and expedite implementation of
project activities. To ensure that in-house capacity is built up and remains at project completion, the
procurement consultants will provide training to agency staff and will assist in preparing a global
procurement strategic plan. The BPE has already recruited a part-time procurement specialist and will
recruit a full-time procurement specialist for the project. In addition, the BPE has commenced staff training
in procurement through attendance at a World Bank Group procurement training course.
The project will involve : (a) predominantly procurement of consulting and advisory services; but also (b)
procurement for supply and installation of equipment, notably for the telecommunications radio frequency
management system in NCC, and for the emergency replacement equipment and parts needs of Lagos State
Water Corporation. All procurement of consulting and advisory services will be undertaken based upon the
"Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Group borrowers", dated
January 1997, as updated in September 1997 and January 1999. All procurement of goods and equipment
will be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA
Credits", (revised January, 1997 and January, 1999).
As conditions of disbursement for their respective components the implementing agencies, with assistance
from the procurement consultants, shall each prepare a Procurement Procedures Manual, to be applied
during project implementation. Detailed procurement arrangements are presented in Annex 6. A complete
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the implementing agencies and a Procurement Action Plan to address
weaknesses identified in the Assessment are in the project file.
- 18-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
IDA considered the options of supporting the FGN's privatization and infrastructure reform programs
through: (a) policy-based lending alone, as an alternative to technical assistance; and (b) stand alone
sector-specific operations. The first of these - (a) above - did not respond to the FGN's request to the
World Bank Group to help provide internationally experienced technical support in the design and
implementation of its privatization program. The FGN's objectives are to ensure efficient and transparent
implementation, and to help build international confidence in the administration's resolve to address
problems facing the economy. The second alternative - (b) above - was rejected because of the
cross-sectoral institutional structure adopted by the FGN for reform and privatization of PEs, the synergies
that derive from such approaches, and the World Bank Group's positive experience with them in other
countries.
The option of combining technical assistance with financing for major rehabilitation investments to support
sector reforms was also rejected. This was because of : (i) the aims of maximizing private participation
and obtaining private finance, and of committing fresh public investment funding only as a last resort; and
(ii) uncertainty in the pace of reform programs could conflict with time-bound contractual commitments of
investment operations.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Power Sector Operations: The World Bank Group is considering a range of support for FGN's power
reform program: (a) The PSP will support the policy, regulatory and institutional reforms required to
transform Nigeria's power sector, with substantial private participation and independent private supply. (b)
The proposed IDA Transmission Development Project would finance investment, technical assistance,
capacity-building to modernize Nigeria's power transmission system. This would include creation of an
independent transmission company, which is essential for implementing decentralized power trading
arrangements in the private sector. (c) The FGN has also requested the World Bank Group to help attract
private participation in power generation through ROT concessions and emergency power supply. (d)
World Bank Group support for rural electrification, based on the strategy to be developed under the PSP,
would be considered at a later stage.
- 19 -



T;,f;fU 1   ... f;; 0;--;:;:;;:;:;;; Latest Supervision
Seto ISssue                         Projec 0j ;0f000t0k0   j:   (PR $00Raifngsf    
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Public Sector Management          Economic Management               S             S
Capacity Building Project
Strengthen power transmission to  Transmission Development
facilitate privatization of generation    Project (proposed)
and distnbution
Ports modemization investment and    Ports Modemization Project
sector reform implementation      (proposed)
Divestiture of Nigeria Airways to  IFC/PSAS Mandate with FGN
strengthen international air transport  for Divestiture of Nigeria
Airways
Improved water supply in Lagos State  IFC/PSAS Mandate with Lagos
through concessioning as part of  State Govemment for
state-by-state reforms            Concessioning of Lagos State
Water Corporation
Other development agencies
Macro-economic framework for PE   DFID: Support to New Debt
privatization - debt               Management Office
Macro-economic framework for       IMF: US$1 billion Stand-by
stabilization and economic growth and  Operation
structural reforms
Capacity building, training and design  USAID: T.A. project in
of business environment reforms to    support of BPE
support privatization
Capacity building and training in energy USALD : Ongoing and planned
and transport sectors             T.A. projects for energy and
transport.
Capacity building, technical assistance  UK-DFID: T.A. project in
and communications support for FGN's support of BPE (under
privatization program             preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 20 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project design takes account of lessons learned in similar privatization programs supported by the
World Bank Group, notably: (i) country-specific issues that have affected performance; (ii) experiences
with implementation of cross-sectoral privatization programs; and (iii) sector specific issues experienced in
reform programs:
* Country-Specific lessons: It has been difficult to achieve lasting, measurable
improvements to Nigeria's public services from prior assistance efforts. The key lessons
learned from previous World Bank Group projects in Nigeria - notably in
telecommunications, power and water supply - are that institutional sustainability,
borrower commitment and adhering to standard international procurement procedures are
essential pre-requisites. The project addresses these concerns by ensuring that key actions
are completed up front (i.e. prior to Board presentation). This includes most notably the
establishment of a clear and sound overall framework for policy-making and for
implementation of PE divestitures and sector reforms. It is important that the implementing
agency has adopted, and is committed to following, transparent and efficient procurement
procedures in the selection and awarding of advisory, consulting, and equipment contracts.
This is reflected in the procurement action plans agreed with the BPE, NCC, and LSWC.
e   Experiences with Privatization Programs: The project design reflects lessons learned
from implementation of similar cross-sectoral privatization programs in Sub-Saharan
Africa and in other regions: (a) Adoption of efficient and transparent procedures for PE
divestiture transactions is key to stakeholder confidence and sustainability These need to
include competitive bidding to determine winning bidders, with pre-qualification used as
needed to ensure bidders' technical and managerial credentials. (b) Adoption of consistent
privatization policies is key to ensure economically efficient and socially responsible
outcomes. This is especially important for PE employee severance and retrenchment to
ensure equitable treatment, while minimizing fiscal costs, and in addressing business
environment and policy constraints. (c) Effective coordination of high-level government
policy-making for PE divestitures with decisions on related sector reforms - especially in
infrastructure - is critical to effective implementation. (d) Communications and
awareness-raising with concerned stakeholder groups concerning privatization generally
and for specific transactions is vital to maintaining support for the program. This is
especially the case in large and ethnically diverse societies. The project addresses these
issues through: (i) upfront adoption by BPE of strengthened privatization procedures; (ii)
early adoption of a general policy framework for PE employee severance compensation;
(iii) explicit review of business environment and regulatory factors affecting sectors of PEs
prior to divestiture preparation; and (iv) conduct by BPE of a major, nationwide
communications and public awareness program on privatization.
*   Sector Specific lessons: The project design reflects lessons learned from similar reforms
elsewhere in the utilities and infrastructure sectors. The 1999 Privatization and
Commercialization Act provides a clear basis for PE reform and private partnerships,
although further primary legislation is needed to allow unbundling and majority
privatization of utilities and to provide a credible basis for regulation of infrastructure
services. The key lessons in utility reforms are the need to: (i) develop sectoral policies
that promote competition whilst protecting consumer, environmental and social interests;
(ii) create legal and regulatory frameworks that attract strategic investors and develop
- 21 -



efficient markets; (iii) provide access to capital to improve and expand services to existing
and new customers; and (iv) increase access and availability of services, especially in rural
areas. The project addresses all four aspects in the following manner: (a) as part of project
preparation, new policies have been prepared for the telecommunication and power
sectors; (b) legislative and regulatory frameworks that reflect the sector policies under the
project will be developed and strengthened; (c) the conditions for privatizing the supply of
telecommunication and power services will provide incentives for private investment to
improve and expand services; and (d) strategies for expanding access to telecommunication
and power services in rural areas will be developed under the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Soon after assuming power in June 1999, the Obasanjo administration signaled its strong commitment to
privatization of state-owned enterprises as a critical element of its strategy for economic recovery and
accelerated growth. A number of actions underscored this commitment: (a) the creation in July 1999 of
the National Council on Privatization (NCP) chaired by the Vice President of Nigeria, reporting directly to
the President; (b) the early adoption of a list of major PEs to be privatized - including notably in electric
power and telecommunications; and (c) the restructuring of BPE under strengthened leadership in 1999.
President Obasanjo approached the President of the World Bank Group very soon after coming to office
requesting support for early implementation of key PE divestitures - notably in power and telecoms. In
2000-01, significant progress has been made with implementation of Phase One of the privatization
program, with the sale of FGN share holdings in eight PEs, including two cement companies and two
banks. The FGN has made important progress in preparation of the telecommunications and electric power
reform programs. This includes adoption of a new National Telecommunications Policy (NIP) opening the
sector fully to competition in 2001, and of a National Electric Power Policy (NEPP). These, as well as
adoption of strengthened privatization procedures, are actions completed prior to Board presentation of the
proposed IDA credit.
Other actions taken by the FGN that confirm its commitment include : (a) enactment of the 1999
Privatization and Commercialization Act, followed by the 2000 decision to increase the shareholding to be
sold to strategic investors to 51 %; (b) establishment of sector reform conmnittees including top FGN
officials and stakeholder representatives that are playing a key role in design of the reforms; (c)
appointment of a new board of directors and chief executive for the NCC, including private sector
representatives; and (d) conduct of workshops for stakeholders to share knowledge and encourage debate in
key reform areas, such as concessioning in transport and infrastructure, an international forum on African
privatization experiences, and two power sector reform leaders' workshops (held in 2001 with World Bank
Group assistance) to define and build consensus on FGN's short-term power action plan for 2001-02. In the
case of the Lagos Water divestiture, the Lagos State Government has appointed a Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) from the private sector for LSWC, to carry through the private sector participation program with
support of IFC, and has created a Privatization Committee comprising three Commissioners and LSWC's
CEO.
While the Obasanjo administration is strongly committed to an accelerated privatization program,
significant stakeholder groups are resisting the reforms. These include PE managers and employees, senior
government officials and civil servants, notably in sectoral ministries, who perceive that their current power
and perquisites will be reduced as the privatization program is implemented. In the National Assembly, a
range of politicians view privatization as a threat to national sovereignty, and an unwarranted reduction in
the role of the state. In part such opposition is due to adherence to often outmoded economic thinking,
-22 -



which will take time to change in a large country that has been relatively isolated from international
influences over the past decade. This situation is further complicated by the deep-seated ethnic and regional
differences in Nigerian society, which can complicate the sale of public enterprises generally, and in
particular of PEs located in different regions, unless it is fully supported by the local elites and local
population. Adequate safeguards are needed to mitigate such risks, including public awareness-raising and
consensus-building on the aims and progress of the PE privatization program as it proceeds.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Under the project, the World Bank Group will provide vitally needed technical support to FGN to help
manage key elements of the country's economic recovery program. The World Bank Group can provide
both advice and technical assistance funding on a multi-lateral and objective basis to support complex
sector reforms and privatization notably in the major infrastructure sectors. Through past collaboration
with a wide array of advisory firms, the international investment community and donor agencies, the World
Bank Group is well positioned to provide such assistance and to help build confidence among potential
investors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$5.4 million; ERR = 27 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Apart from the Lagos Water component, as a TA operation the project is not suitable for quantitative
economic analysis, since important economic benefits are indirect and cannot be computed with accuracy.
The economic benefits anticipated are described in Section C.3 above.
The Lagos Water component comprises an emergency investment in replacement equipment and spare parts
to ensure continued service without major disruption pending private sector participation in LSWC, and to
improve billings and collections. For this, the base case economic rate of return was estimated at 27 percent
and the net present value of benefits at US$5.4 million equivalent.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 4.8 million; FRR = 19 % (see Annex 4)
Not required for a technical assistance operation.
The Lagos Water component is expected to generate strong incremental cashflows for LSWC. The
incremental financial return to LSWC is estimated at 19 percent, using a discount rate of 10 percent. The
net present value of financial flows is estimated at US$4.8 million equivalent.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is expected to have significant fiscal impact on a gross basis, though this will be offset by the
costs to government of the debt workouts and retrenchment programs involved in the privatization program,
as well as remaining public investment requirements: (a) government losses and subsidies will be
reduced; (b) fiscal revenues will increase from proceeds of license auctions, divestiture of the PEs, and
eventually from the expanded tax base following market growth in the privatized sectors. However, PEs'
accumulated debts, severance and pension liabilities are expected to be considerable. Privatization and
sector reform will improve the medium to long term fiscal outlook, and contain fiscal hemorrhaging.
However, substantial net fiscal gains are not anticipated in the short run.
- 23 -



3. Technical:
Telecommunications . Radio Spectrum Management.: With rapidly expanding use of less expensive, more
cost-effective wireless technologies for mobile and cellular communications, efficient allocation of radio
frequencies has become a high priority. Currently, Nigeria's Federal Ministry of Communications -
through the Frequency Management Oversight Committee (FMOC) - and the telecommunications regulator
(NCC) - lack up-to-date equipment to manage and oversee frequency allocation and use. In addition, there
is inadequate coordination between NCC and FMOC and with the National Broadcast Commission (NBC),
responsible for licensing radio stations.
Based upon the findings of a Radio Spectrum Management Study, to be funded partly by a grant from the
United States Trade Development Agency, the project will assist in the definition of requirements,
preparation of bidding documents and procurement of new radio spectrum monitoring systems. More
effective systems for coordination of radio spectrum management will be agreed between FMOC, NCC and
NBC.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The FGN has decided to take actions to improve the management of the privatization program and the
major infrastructure sector reforms. Under the project, the FGN will strengthen its guidelines for
preparation and execution of PE divestiture transactions - including bidding procedures. These will improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of the privatization program, through more systematic use of
pre-qualification procedures, especially for larger transactions, and use of a single financial variable as the
basis for final selection of the winning bidder.
An additional issue that will be tackled is that the current legal framework does not give sufficient statutory
authority to the privatization agency (BPE) to oversee PEs' operations during the period leading up to their
divestiture. This is needed to prevent actions by PE management and boards that work against privatization
and undermine company value. FGN has decided to make important improvements in its guidelines and
procedures governing the privatization program, which will be supported by the PSP.
There has been a lack of clarity in lines of authority for strategy and policy in the major sector reform
programs, notably in power and telecommunications. FGN has therefore decided that the role and authority
of the SRICs and their responsibility to present proposed reforms to the NCP for approval will be
reinforced - see Section B.3.
4.2 Project management:
As noted above - Section C.4 - FGN has decided to strengthen the capacity of the main implemenffng
agencies notably the BPE in order to accelerate and improve the quality of its PE divestiture
program.
Organization of the PE Divestiture Effort: To maximize the results and economic impact attained by
end-2002, BPE will focus on a smaller number of (about 15-20) priority PEs and organize its staff
accordingly. It will assign sector divestiture teams on a full-time basis to manage these divestitures and
related sector policy and regulatory reforms in the priority sectors, including telecommunications and
power. Each sector team will: (a) first arrange for conduct of a quick assessment on the selected PE (as
- 24 -



needed), (b) then organize a review of the business and sectoral policy environment and regulatory
framework to enable the concerned SRIC to recommend necessary reforms to these; (c) thirdly manage
selection and supervision of investment advisers in preparation of a divestiture strategy; and finally, (d)
manage implementation of the divestiture of the PEs in the sector. This organizing framework is the basis
for BPE's project implementation plan - which is summarized in Annex 11.
BPE Institutional Support
BPE Capacity Building Action Plan: The BPE has a staff of about 100 professionals, of whom
seventy-three are newly recruited.The agreed actions are : (a) The BPE will hire three long term
international advisors with privatization experiences in power, transport, and oil and gas sectors from 2001
to 2003, to provide up-to-date, private market knowledge and experience of these key sectors. (b) The
BPE will recruit a "core team" of ten highly qualified Nigerian professionals - to be hired from the private
sector on a contract basis, for the life of the PSP. (Of these, four joined BPE in August, 2000; one will
come on board soon; and five more will be recruited in 2001.) (c) The BPE has also recruited specialists
in divestiture transactions, labor and retrenchment issues, communications and public awareness and
Management Information System (MIS) (with funding support from USAID). (d) Training will be
expanded in 2001-02, covering preparation and execution of complex large divestiture transactions, and
design of related regulatory reforms. BPE will also arrange in-house training in financial and legal matters.
In addition, BPE plans to send selected staff to successful privatization agencies overseas for short-term
(max. 2-3 months) on-the-job training. Meanwhile, BPE's directors will also attend management training
courses overseas.
Fundingfor BPE Institutional Support and Capacity Building:     While BPE regular staff salaries
are fully financed out of the FGN's budget, under the PSP, IDA and other donors would fund international
advisor and "core team" support, as well as staff training and capacity building.
BPE Organizational Structure : BPE has recently re-organized on a "matrix" basis. Under this, staff in
all of its five departments (Council Affairs, Finance and Administration, Planning and Monitoring,
Operations, and Legal Services) are assigned to work on sector transaction teams as well as to fulfill their
departmental assignments. This is aimed at giving most if not all BPE professional staff exposure to PE
divestiture transactions work. However, as divestiture transactions work is expected to increase greatly
during 2001-02, it will be important to ensure that: (a) priority is given to continuity in staffing of sector
teams responsible for managing major divestitures, and (b) certain key specialized services - notably legal
services, financial services, handling of severance and retrenchment issues, communications - are staffed on
a full-time basis.
4.3 Procurement issues:
These issues are covered in Section C.4 above.
4.4 Financial management issues:
These issues are covered in Section C.4 above.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The main environmental issues with respect to the project relate to the need to mitigate environmental
hazard and risk factors adequately in the plants and operations of the PEs concerned, prior to their
- 25 -



divestiture by BPE. The PE divestiture program includes major PEs in sectors where significant
environmental issues can be expected to arise. These will at least need review and analysis, and where
warranted, mitigation and clean up. It is important to note, therefore, that the BPE will adopt standards and
guidelines for preparation of environmental assessments and implementation of actions required. This is
particularly the case for the power sector but also for telecommunications, as well as the productive sectors
- e.g. pulp and paper, steel, petrochemicals, fertilizers, etc. Since the project will finance divestiture work
on PEs in the power, telecommunication, and Lagos Water sectors, environmental pre-audits have been
undertaken on the PEs concemed. For other PEs to be selected for divestiture under the project, the FGN
through BPE has prepared, with the assistance of consultants, environmental guidelines governing its
overall privatization program. These are to be approved and adopted by the NCP by December 31, 2001.
However, since the project focuses principally upon providing technical support for implementation of the
FGN's overall privatization program, and not investment in PEs, the environmental assessment and
mitigation work is best done during project implementation as part of the process leading up to divestiture.
The principal actions in preparation for the IDA credit have been to: (1) undertake a pre-audit survey of
the main PEs in the telecoms, power, air transport and Lagos Water sectors to be privatized to identify the
extent and principal types of environmental clean-up and mitigation activity that will need to be carried out
before PE divestiture; and (2) prepare, for adoption by FGN and BPE, standards and guidelines for
preparation of environmental assessments and implementation of mitigation work prior to divestiture,
which would cover remaining PEs.
Technical consultants were hired by BPE to assist in preparing the pre-audit surveys. This work was
carried out during October, 2000-December 2000 and steps were completed for adoption of an
environmental action plan by BPE prior to Board presentation of the IDA credit for the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The environmental management plan (EMP) for the project has been reviewed by a World Bank Group
senior environmental specialist and is satisfactory. In implementing the PE privatization program, the BPE
will apply the environmental assessment (EA) guidelines to be adopted by FGN to assess environmental
risks, mitigation and clean-up requirements, as part of the preparation of each PE divestiture. The priority
sectors and PEs for in-depth environmental assessment and mitigation work have been identified as part of
the pre-audit work. Based upon the EA, mitigation and clean-up work would be undertaken as part of PE
divestiture implementation.
Each enterprise will have on its premises a Senior Official responsible for environmental management
activities.This person will liaise with the environmental advisor of the BPE and the Federal Ministry of
Environment on environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the activities of the enterprise. This
person will also participate in training and be part of the capacity building for environmental management.
The environmental advisor of the BPE will coordinate and support the development of environmental
management plans that link city/local government EMPs with those of the PEs to be privatized. The
enterprises will develop and incorporate EMPs into their management structures. The project 's EMP has
been prepared by specialist consultants and includes:
execution of environmental monitoring programs for the enterprises;
knowledge and compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations;
conduct of occasional drills to alert staff and workers on how to react and operate in
cases of emergencies;
development of capacity to execute coherent sampling and monitoring programs as part of
- 26 -



remediation plans; and
medical monitoring, including HIVIAIDS awareness programs.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 7, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the conduct of the environmental pre-audit survey, local governmental, private sector and civil
society groups m the localities of the PEs concerned were contacted and their views on environmental
issues and impacts relating to the PEs concerned were canvassed and assessed. Seminars and workshops
were held with stakeholder groups for this purpose, and to discuss preliminary findings of the pre-audit as
well as key elements for the environmental assessment guidelines to be adopted.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
T he mechanism to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project will be developed as part of the full and
partial environmental audit for each individual PE. Each EMP will identify activities with potential
environmental impacts, describe methods to mitigate and monitor those impacts, identify persons
responsible for implementing the elements of the plan and appropriate training for those individuals, and
prescribe a schedule and cost estimate for implementation. Surveys of privatized PEs to be undertaken to
monitor and evaluate the project's economic impact would also include an assessment of environmental
mitigation measures.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The principal social issue related to the project concerns the severance compensation and retrenchment of
PE employees. Attached to this is the need for FGN to adopt and implement a policy for PE severance and
compensation, that is equitable, fiscally affordable, and economically efficient.
FGN already has significant experience with severance compensation and retrenchment of PE employees in
prior efforts to reduce over-employment in the PE sector. In Nigeria Airways, for instance, some 1,000
employees have already been retrenched during the past several years. In addition, NEPA recently
announced retrenchment of 3,000 employees.
Intemational experiences indicate that it is important for a consistent across-the-board policy to be adopted
setting out the terms and conditions of PE employee severance compensation and retrenchment to ensure
equity, and to minimize the fiscal costs. Severance payments beyond statutory requirements - if any -
should be based upon considerations of realistic estimates of future wage losses resulting from
re-employment difficulties and dislocation problems.
To ensure a consistent policy framework for the PE severance compensation and retrenchment program, a
policy design review is being undertaken by BPE. This will prepare proposals for an overall PE severance
and retrenchment policy. This review is already being carried out with assistance from consultants funded
by the Bank and USAID. The study will enable guidelines to be adopted by FGN in 2001.
-27 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The principal stakeholder groups are : potential private investors, PE managers and employees, tax payers
and the public at large, general customers and the urban and rural poor (through increase in access to
services), the service providers (through cessation of govemment interference), and the government
(through reduction of subsidies). The FGN has taken an active approach to enlisting the support of these
constituencies through its public information efforts. The NCP has organized workshops and seminars
conducted by BPE to explain and discuss the privatization program with major stakeholder groups and to
elicit feedback and comments. In addition, the BPE has organized public information events - including
media announcements and broadcasts in national television and radio - to discuss the privatization program
with key stakeholder groups and the general public. At the same time, private sector and labor union
representatives have been appointed to serve on the NCP committees.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See 6.2 above.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project includes funding for hiring cornmunications' advisers and consultants to undertake a major
public awareness and education program related to the PE privatization program.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Surveys will be undertaken periodically (e.g. every 24 months) among concerned stakeholder groups to
obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the PE divestiture program.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            S Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes S No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section E.5 above with respect to environmental issues.
-28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project involves substantial risks with respect to the political and business environment in which the
implementation of the program of PE divestitures and major sector reforms is to take place. However, as
part of an integrated economic reform program, President Obasanjo and his administration have shown
themselves firmly committed to canying it through. The FGN has considerably strengthened the NCP and
BPE, providing high-level leadership committed to reform and transparency as well as enhanced
professional capacity. These are key factors to the sustainability of the program. Recognizing it will take
time for the benefits of the program to be realized, the FGN has stressed its need for the support of the
World Bank Group and other donor agencies to ensure sustainability and the mitigation of the attendant
risks.
Nigeria's history has been marred by isolation from intemational trends and experiences with respect to
economic policy and public sector reforms. However, the FGN's efforts aimed at stemming corruption are
making significant progress through establishment of new institutional mechanisms for ensuring
transparency and accountability. President Obasanjo, who prior to his inauguration was chairman of the
international board of Transparency International, has established the Independent Corrupt Practices and
Other Offenses Commission. The commission is soon to expedite action on several dozen cases, a number
of which will be high profile. FGN's coordinated fight against entrenched corruption is reflected in the
creation of: (a) a Budget Monitoring and Price Intelligence Unit to ensure due process, efficiency and
prudence in public expenditure; and (b) an Economic Policy Coordination Committee to ensure an
integrated economic development strategy consistent with national priorities. In addition, in January 2001,
FGN approved the country procurement assessment report (CPAR) - setting more effective policies for all
FGN procurement - and the country financial accountability assessment (CFAA) - setting higher standards
of accountability.
Changes in thinking on public policy will take time to become accepted. Powerful vested interests may
resist or attempt to influence the outcome of FGN's ambitious divestiture program. The concepts of
private participation in infrastructure, and of modern pro-competitive economic regulation in these sectors,
are relatively new to Nigeria. However, decades of neglect and lack of investment in key sectors of the
economy appear to have made Nigerians supportive of the need for change to rebuild the economy and
public institutions as a basis for longer run prosperity.
The sustainability of the PE divestiture program and the infrastructure sector reforms - especially in power
and telecommunications - will depend upon a number of factors: (a) the willingness of private investors
and operators to take on the commercial risks in investing in the enterprises in question once they are
privatized; (b) the ability of the governments (federal and state) to fully adopt new policies and institutional
structures in support of expanded private participation on a transparent, competitive market basis; (c) the
willingness and ability of governments (federal and state) and public institutions to improve their behavior
as consumers, by becoming current in paying their bills; and (d) the mobilization of sufficient capital and
investment resources from the private sector.
The project has been designed to address the above risks in a number of ways:
(I) The policy and political risks are being addressed through upfront adoption and publication by FGN of
key policies and procedures for the overall privatization program, as well as of reform programs for the
major infrastructure sectors - notably power and telecommunications. These will provide the basic
framework for implementation of the project, and compliance will be monitored regularly by FGN and the
World Bank Group.
- 29 -



(2) The regulatorv risk is being addressed through early design and adoption of pro-competitive regulatory
frameworks and creation of independent regulatory bodies, prior to PE divestitures. In addition, a major
effort at public education and awareness-raising will be mounted to help build constituencies in support of
the reforms. The FGN appreciates the importance of addressing these risks through promotion of
liberalized markets and pro-competitive regulatory frameworks. Actions already taken include : (a)
adoption of the National Telecommunications Policy and strengthening of the NCC through appointment
of an independent Board of Directors and Chief Executive, coupled with the recent successful auction by
NCC of four digital mobile licenses; (b) the replacement of the management of the National Electric Power
Authority (NEPA) with a pro-reform, private sector oriented Technical Board, reporting directly to the
President, as well as adoption by FGN of a new Electric Power Policy.
(3) The governance and business environment risks will be addressed through adoption by NCP of clear,
publicized procedures for transactions, as well as efforts to streamline business regulations. The NCP's
decision to further liberalize the extent of shareholding by strategic investors from 40 percent to 51 percent
will provide a greater degree of comfort to investors. Adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act and
establishment of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Offenses Commission are also important
steps by the FGN to address this risk. Private investor perceptions of Nigeria in the power and telecoms
sectors so far have varied. In telecoms, numerous investors (local and foreign) have shown interest.
Resolution of the legal and regulatory framework will be key in this sector. In power, the response on
power generation has been good, as indicated by numerous expressions of interest to bid on emergency
power generation capacity. On the other hand, following the experiences of recent reforms in Indian states,
for distribution the risk remains that foreign investor interest may be limited and may focus only on a few
larger markets leaving smaller systems essentially to local investors. This issue is being addressed in the
program through early recruitment of the privatization advisors, to work alongside the NEPA unit
restructuring advisors and legal/regulatory advisors so that market risk perceptions can be addressed.
(4) The implementation risk is being addressed through an early and sustained effort at capacity building
and training, notably on procurement. In particular, USAID has already conducted a series of training
programs for BPE staff, and several senior BPE professionals have attended a World Bank Group
procurement training program. Other actions include : (a) appointment of two procurement specialists by
BPE in 2001; (b) BPE's recruitment of a core team of Nigerian professionals, with international project
and corporate finance experience; as well as (c) enhancement of BPE employees' salaries to levels
substantially above civil service scales, thus contributing to a strongly motivated workforce.
(5) The social risk is being addressed through the following means: (a) stakeholder participation (in the
NCP and in public awareness workshops), (b) upfront design of adequate mitigation measures, including
opening markets to competition on a level-playing-field basis, as well as (c) adoption of consistent,
equitable and efficient policies in areas such as PE retrenchment and environment. The President of the
National Labor Congress is an active member of the NCP. BPE has implemented an effective program of
consultations with unions, involving focus groups with PE workers for discussion of workers' concerns
over inter alia severance pay, redundancy issues, employee share-ownership, service benefits.
In the power sector a Rural Electrification Agency will be established to accelerate the access of rural
population to electricity. The new power policy also explicitly recognizes the importance of life-line
subsidies being extended to the poor.
- 30 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Policy and Political Risk - insufficient   S        Upfront adoption of overall PE divestiture
and/or inconsistent Government                      process guidelines, and of sector policy reform
commitment to sound PE divestiture                  frameworks esp. in major infrastructure sectors
process and sector reform programs,                  - power, telecommunications. The guidelines
including key policy changes (e.g., tariffs)        would be adopted and published by FGN prior
- esp. in power and telecoms                        to first disbursement of the general privatization
components. All PE divestiture and private
infrastructure supply transactions would be
implemented consistent with these guidelines.
Compliance would be regularly monitored by
FGN and the World Bank Group. Early and
continuing public awareness-raising and
communications programs to inform and involve
key stakeholders.
Regulatory Risks - Government political    S        Upfront agreement on key policies and on means
interference in regulatory frameworks for           for regulatory independence, major capacity
esp. infrastructure sectors weakens                 building effort in new regulatory bodies, and
regulatory credibility and level                    through public education, and use of largely
playing-field. Private investment supply            rule-based regulation initially with limited
response delayed.                                    discretion - esp. in major infrastructure sectors.
Adoption and publication of sound,
pro-competitive sector policy frameworks on
power and electricity are conditions of Board for
the PSP. Compliance would be regularly
monitored by the FGN and the World Bank
Group. Early and careful assessment of residual
public investment financing needs (e.g., power
transmission).
Govemance Risk - continuance of            S         Strengthened privatization procedures, and
non-transparent and corrupt practices               pro-competitive policy and regulatory
affect private investor and public response          frameworks in major infrastructure sectors -
power, and telecommunications.
Beyond scope of the project alone:
Implementation of FGN's Anti-Corruption Law
and program, and new FGN Procurement
systems and procedures and financial
accountability guidelines. Complementarity with
other Bank programs of assistance.
- 31 -



Entrenched Vested Interest Risk -           S         Participatory approach to design and decision
Government unable to overcome                         making on PE privatization program and key
resistance of powerful entrenched vested              sector reforms, under auspices of NCP. Major
interests                                             public awareness-raising and communications
programs with stakeholders started early and
continue through project implementation.
Social Risk - counter-reactions from key    S         Continuance of the effective program launched
stakeholders caused by inequities in                  by NCP/BPE of consultations with labor unions
related social policies - e.g., PE                    and PE workers, and with community groups in
retrenchment, etc.                                    different regions, in preparation for major PE
divestiture transactions in 2001/02. Early design
and adoption of a consistent overall policy
framework for PE retrenchment as well as other
relevant social policies - e.g., pensions.
Interim Service Decline and Collapse Risk   H         Upfront preparation of emergency repair and
- Breakdowns in major infrastructure                  capacity restoration programs (in power and
services (esp. power, water) create crises            water) to ensure minimal adequate service
that distract Government from structural              provision pending implementation of
sector reform and PE divestiture efforts              medium-term sector reforms.
Beyond scope of project: World Bank Group
financing under preparation for complementary
investments in rehabilitation and improved
capacity (e.g., power transmission, state-level
water supply, etc.)
Business Environment Risk - bureaucratic    S         Greater coordination and more effective
controls and constraints on business                 implementation of investment promotion
activities weaken private investor                    activities and simplification of business
response                                              regulations and red tape.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation Risk - Inadequate            S         Sustained effort from project preparation
technical capacity in implementing                    through implementation to build capacities in
agencies slows down, weakens execution                principal implementing agencies, with
of reform efforts                                     consolidation of capacities (e.g., procurement) in
privatization agency and clear prioritization of
PE divestiture and sector reform programs in
early years
- 32 -



Ownership and Coordination Risks - lack     H         Upfront definition and agreement on PE
of clarity and consensus on                           divestiture process and procedures, with clear
decision-making, coordination and                     designation of responsibilities among FGN
implementation responsibilities - esp. for            agencies, under leadership of NCP/BPE
sector reform and PE divestitures in
infrastructure (power,
telecommunications, air transport)
weakens and confuses program execution
effort
Complexity Risk - design of sectoral         S        Extensive effort during project preparation to
reforms (esp. in power) calls for multiple            involve all stakeholders in design of policy
coordinated changes in sector structure               reforms, combined with intensive training and
and organization to be accomplished in                capacity building efforts
quite short time, that exceeds institutional
capacity for change
Overall Risk Rating                          s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Policy and Political Risks, Entrenched Vested Interests Risks (see above) :As noted above, vociferous and
influential stakeholder groups and political groups - notably among consumers, PE employees, and in
political parties including in Parliament, may mount strong efforts to discredit and weaken the FGN's
privatization and sector reform efforts.
Interim Service Decline and Collapse Risk (see above): As noted above, the risk has already proven high
that major inadequacies in the current organization and management of key public services in infrastructure
- most notably power at the national level, but also water at the state level - can result in sudden service
declines and temporary system collapse. This poses major political and logistical challenges to the reform
effort, and has necessitated the Obasanjo administration to take concerted action for the short-term to
design and implement emergency supply programs - such as NEPA's Action Plan in the power sector,
emergency repair program in LSWC in water. The ultimate success of the overall reform - especially in the
power sector - will be contingent upon the effective and timely implementation of these emergency
programs.
The risk mitigation measures being taken to address the above two govemment risk factors are outlined
above in Section F. I and F.2.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) shall cause BPE, NCC and LSWC to adopt financial
procedures manuals, establish financial management systems, and appoint external auditors for the
project, acceptable to IDA.
- 33 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
As conditions of disbursement, the Federal Government of Nigeria shall:
*   For the components/sub-components to be implemented by BPE, adopt and publish a privatization
process and procedures manual for preparation and execution of PE divestiture and PPI
transactions, satisfactory to IDA;
*   For the components/subcomponents to be implemented by each implementing agency, cause BPE,
NCC, and LSWC respectively to furnish a project implementation manual, and an annual work
plan for June 30, 2001-December 31, 2002, open its respective project Account and deposit in it
the initial deposit (in the amounts of US$3,900,000 for BPE, US$600,000 for NCC, and
US$500,000 for LSWC);
*   For the sub-components to be implemented by NERC, cause the NERC to be established with a
satisfactory organization and staffing structure, and to adopt a financial procedures manual and
financial management system, satisfactory to IDA;
*   For the Lagos Water component, cause Lagos State and LSWC to execute two subsidiary credit
agreements, respectively transferring the proceeds for the Lagos Water component of the IDA
credit from the Borrower to Lagos State, and from Lagos State to LSWC.
As dated or continuing covenants, the FGN has agreed as follows:
(a) For the sectoral reform and general privatization support program, the FGN will:
*   adopt general environmental guidelines and social safeguards, satisfactory to IDA, for the
preparation and execution of PE divestiture and PPI transactions (No later than December 31,
2001);
3   maintain NCP/BPE as administrator of its privatization proceeds account, and have this account
audited within six months of the end of each fiscal year; and
*   carry out the project in accordance with the project Implementation Manual, and divest PEs in
accordance with the Privatization Process and Procedures Manual, the guidelines for compensation
and severance of public enterprise employees, and the guidelines for the preparation of
environmental management plans.
- 34 -



(b) For the telecommunications sector, the FGN will:
*  present to the National Assembly for approval, after adoption by the Executive Council, the draft
of a new telecommunications law (No later than September 30, 2001);
*  take the Nigerian Telecommunications Co. Ltd. (NITEL) and the Nigerian Mobile
Telecommunications Co. Ltd. (M-Tel), to point of sale; (No later than December 31, 2001);
*   launch work on the implementation of the rural demonstration project, under a contract financed
under the project (No later than May 31, 2002); and
*   launch installation work for the new radio spectrum management system, under a contract financed
under the project (No later than June 30, 2002);
(c) For the electric power sector, the FGN will:
o  present to the National Assembly for approval, a draft electricity law, taking the Association's
comments into account.
* within three months after enactment of the electricity law, establish a Special Purpose Entity inter
alia to assume NEPA's power purchase obligations to private producers, and provide adequate
financing therefor.
*  cause NEPA to refrain from entering into new escrow arrangements for the purchase of power
from private operators.
v  refrain from providing new guarantees for the payment obligations of state-owned entities under
agreements to purchase power from privately owned or operated power generators or suppliers,
unless such payment obligations are adequately funded.
The key milestones under the FGN's electric power sector reform program and the timelines for their
completion have been nagreed with IDA. These are given in the Project Implementation Framework and
Action Plan (Annex 11). This Plan includes key actions to be taken by the FGN to implement the
privatization program, as well as the electric power sector and telecommunications sector reforms
supported by the project. These were agreed with the FGN at credit negotiations and will form the basis for
the BPE's project implementation manual.
A Mid-term Review of the project will be undertaken by the Borrower and the World Bank Group by
end-July, 2003 at the latest. Based upon its findings, actions will be taken as needed to strengthen project
implementation.
- 35 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Z 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Project Implementation Framework and Action Plan (Annex 11) - incorporating the key milestones and
actions to be undertaken under the project - has been reviewed and agreed with the FGN. The implementing
agencies will prepare project implementation manuals including detailed procurement plans for June 30,
2001 through December 31, 2002, as conditions of disbursement for their respective components.
Procurement documents for major advisory contracts to be undertaken during 2001 notably in power and
telecommunications have been completed, and a number of these activities are already underway to be
financed out of the PPF or retro-active financing under the proposed IDA credit.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
arDcmbBa                       Msfark D. Tomlinson
Team Leader                    Sector mHln Iermiecot          Country Mnager/lDirectOr
- 36 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Kt H _ chy of 9b*                  k sMonitpring A Evalton    Critical Assume s
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To foster economic growth by Economic growth rate of  Government statistics - FOS   Political stability
encouraging private sector    average 4.6 % per year  data
development and to improve  2001-05 with contribution of                        Government continues on the
efficiency, productivity and   privatized and liberalized    IMF/Bank economnic reports  path of a positive
service-delivery by PEs   enterprises.                                          macroeconomic reform and
including key infrastructure                         Surveys of privatized      private sector growth led
based sectors.                                       enterprises and sectors    program
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Reduction of the role of the   By end of the program:
State in conmmercial activities
- through privatization of    Reduction in public enterprise Government/BPE reports and Adequate management of
PEs and creating an enabling  share of non-oil GDP of 60%  statistics           political, social and other
environment that promotes                                                       risks usually associated with
private sector participation in  Privatized enterprise average  NCP/BPE progress reports   privatizations
the economy, and in       performance increases:
particular private provision of Productivity   +12.5%                           Sufficient investor appetite
service in                Investment    +62.5%                                  Transactions are not
telecommunications, power   Output      +12.5%                                  hampered by legal action,
and urban water sectors.  Leverage      -5%                                     administration delay.
Average net increase in   National accounts, reports of
employment per sector of 30% privatized utilities and
in privatized and liberalized  infrastructure enterprises
sectors
200% increase in number of  Lagos Stock Exchange report
new shareholders
50% increase in total stock
market capitalization
* Telecommunications   Improvement in telecoms     Empirical validation       Buy-in of all stakeholders and
Sector: Increased access services to increase teledensity                  significant private sector
to teleconmunications  to over 1% (one phone line    Surveys of privatized  participation
services and private    per hundred people) (*)  enterprises.
sector participation
100% increase in number of
villages with access to   NCP/BPE progress and
telecommunications facilities  monitoring reports
(*)                       ITU statistics for the
telecommnunication sector.
- 37 -



*  Power sector: Increased Over 4000MW of online   Empirical validation       Adequate management of
power service delivery  generation capacity and unit  Power sector statistics  political, social and other
revenues of over Naira                               risks
4/Kwh (*)
75% of disputes resolved  NERC report
effectively (*)           Survey of privatized
enterprises
*  Urban Water PSP:     PSP arrangement for delivery  Project supervision and  Adequate management of
of Lagos water effective.  consulting reports.       political, social and other
risks.
Water production capacity
increased from 320MI/day to  LSWC progress report
620MI/day (*)
Customer records improved -
increase in customers billed
from 110,000 to 220,000
Collections increased from
30M to 60M per month. (*)
- 38 -



Key p'erforwmnce
Mew;Ir           v Of 00*t"  -     ikyors    _Monkring t ev*Wn  CriticAsoumgp!!a
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
General Privatization
Support, Institutional
Strengthening and
Consensus Building:
Privatization program     Sector reform work          NCP/BPE Progress reports.  Government continues to
implemented in accordance   successfully conducted where                        enjoy support for sector
with program implementation appropriate                                         reform from key stakeholders
timetable
80% Phase II and III      Surveys of privatized PEs and Saleability of key messages
transactions successfully  sectors.
concluded with majority
ownership in each enterprise
transferred to private sector
(by 2005) (*)
Greater public awareness of   Effective implementation of  Periodic analyses and opinion Effective consultations with
the program and efficient  communications masterplan  reviews                   key stakeholders, especially
conduct of consensus building                                                  labor unions
activities                Greater understanding of the
benefits of privatization
Capacity and institution  More efficient implementation
building of BPE           structure and arrangements   Progress reports
Highly motivated and
well-trained BPE staff with
improved skill sets,
80% of BPE staff to have
attended approved training
courses (*)
Development of public
Design and adoption of    enterprise severance and   Project supervision and
consistent policy framework  compensation and        consulting reports.
governing compensation of   retrenchment policy
retrenched public enterprise
employees
Telecommunication Sector:
Deregulation of the sector,    Adoption of national telecoms Telecoms policy    Government continues to
opening access for        policy                     Telecoms Act               enjoy support for sector
competition               Passage of telecoms bill                             reform and privatization. from
Improved market-friendly                             key stakeholders (especially
rules and regulations                                legislature)
- 39 -



Privatization of Nitel/M-Tel  Nitel/M-tel privatized  Progress report
Strengthening of capacity of  Institutionally strengthened   NCC Report
regulator                 NCC with well trained staff                           Cooperation of key
More efficient systems and                           stakeholders
procedures for dispute
resolution, licensing and tariff
regulation
Improved radio spectrum   Development of frequency    Radio spectrum monitoring   Cooperation of key
management                management capacity        modernization plan         stakeholders (including NCC,
Purchase and installation of   Operationalization of  NBC, Ministries and licensed
upgraded radio frequency  frequency allocation and   private operators)
equipment                 monitoring system          Effective procurement system
Increased access of hitherto   Design and implementation of Rural access strategy
unserved consumers        rural access program       Results of demonstration
projects
Power Sector:
Preparation and           Development of national    Adoption of National Power  Government remains
implementation of enabling   power policy            Policy                     committed to reform of the
architecture                                         Passage of Electricity Act    power sector
Development of legal and  Regulator's report
regulatory framework
Establishment of NERC
More competitive market   NEPA unbundled and         Report on restructuring plan.
structure.                unbundled units privatized
SPE established           Creation of Joint Stock
Tariff adjustment plan    Companies.
adopted
Design of a wholesale market Information Memoranda for
for power                 distribution and generation
companies.
Reports from distribution
companies and regulatory
agency.
Increased generation capacity Implementation of EPPs,  Supervision and progress    Sufficient investor appetite
ROTs and (where viable,)    reports
IPPs
Increased rural access    Design and implementation of Progress reports
rural access program
-40 -



Urban Water Reform:
LSWC Privatization -
Preparing of Private Sector   Preparatory studies completed LSWC and engineering  Private sector willing to
Participation in water sector  Financial bids invited  company progress reports    participate
Continued political support
Emergency rehabilitation of
Implementation of emergency critical system components   Progress and supervision  LSWC capable of operating
action plan to ensure LSWC   completed -             reports                    rehabilitated facilities in the
remains operational and                                                         interim period.
becomes more attractive to
potential bidders during the
PSP transaction preparation
period
- 41 -



'iSo:w =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cut~~
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
BPE General Privatization   T.A. and Training        Project supervision and    Project implementation
Transaction Support       (US$43.20 million)         progress reports.          arrangements remain in place
Disbursements reports     and are effective.
BPE Institutional
Strengthening             T.A. and Training
(US$57.21 million)
Consensus Building        T.A. and Training
(US$66.47 million)
Telecommunication Sector  T.A. Training and                                     High quality advisors offer to
Reform                    Equipment(US$18.49 million)                           provide assistance to the
reform programs.
Power Sector Reform:      T.A. Training and                                     No undue delays in hiring
Equipment(US$25.23 million)                          advisors.
Urban Water Reform:
Lagos Water Private Sector T.A. Training and                                    Counterpart funds are
Participation             Equipment(US$14.36 million)                           available in a timely fashion.
(*): Key performance
indicators
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
The Privatization Support Project will assist the implementation of the Federal Government of Nigeria
(FGN)'s PE privatization program. It includes five components: (i) General Privatization Support; (ii) BPE
Institutional Strengthening; (iii) Privatization Consensus Building; (iv) Telecommunication Sector Reform;
(v) Power Sector Reform; and (vi) Urban Water Sector Reform : Lagos State Water Emergency Repairs.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$43.20 million
General Privatization Support
This component will be implemented by the BPE. Under the three-phase privatization program, announced
by President Obasanjo in July 1999, the FGN has set the goal of divesting about 100 PEs through
privatization or commercialization. These include major PEs in the productive sectors, in services and in
infrastructure. They cover the following sectors: (a) in manufacturing : cement, vehicle assembly, machine
tools, pulp and paper, sugar mills, aluminum smelting, steel, petrochemicals, and oil refineries; (b) in
services : hotels, oil marketing, and financial institutions and banking; and (c) in infrastructure:
telecommunications, power, ports, railways, air transport, airport passenger handling, and freight
forwarding.
The project will, as a priority, support the FGN's programs for sector reform and privatization in two
major infrastructure sectors - telecommunications and power. It will also finance preparation and execution
of PE divestiture transactions in the other sectors. The project will finance competitively selected
investment advisers, and legal and technical advisers, employed by the BPE, to undertake transactions work
under its oversight and supervision. It will finance consultant studies to prepare evaluations and do design
work on general privatization, business environment, regulatory and sector policy issues, to ensure effective
implementation of the privatization program. This will include design work to establish a consistent overall
policies for PE employee retrenchment, treatment of PE debts, and competition policy, and a review of
capital market absorptive capacity.
A more detailed presentation of FGN's strategy and implementation plan for the privatization program is
given in Annex 11.
Project Component 2 - US$57.21 million
BPE Institutional Support
This component will be implemented by the BPE. The project will finance and strengthen the govemment
institutions responsible for undertaking the privatization program and sector reforms.
It will provide BPE with technical advisory support including : (a) long-term intemational advisors for
four sectors - telecommunications, electric power, transport and oil and gas; (b) a "core team" of Nigerian
professionals; (c) an intemational expert team on privatization techniques; (d) in the electric power sector,
it will fund the full-time technical team to be recruited to support EPIC (see Annex 11).
The project will finance training BPE staff and to other stakeholders including: (a) in-house and local
training in privatization, regulatory issues, and sector policy reforms; (b) a staff exchange program with
-43 -



successful privatization and regulatory institutions overseas; (c) management training overseas for key
staff; (d) training of judges in commercial and business law; and (e) study tours for stakeholders on
specific program elements.
The project will finance operating costs of the BPE, as special purpose institution outside the civil
service.The FGN - as part of its financing for the project - will finance all BPE regular staff salaries and
the major share of BPE's operating costs through BPE's budget. Aid donors (USAID and UK-DFID) and
IDA will fund BPE technical advisory support, training, and some incremental operating costs.
A more detailed presentation of the BPE capacity building and institutional support program is given in
Annex 1 1.
Project Component 3 - US$ 66.47 million
Privatization Consensus Building
This component will be implemented by BPE. In addition to strengthening BPE's structure, there is also a
need to build consensus among the new members of the legislature and the public at large due to the
sometimes conflicting views and understanding of the effects of the privatization program on the economy.
The FGN will therefore mount a major communications and public relations campaign at home and abroad
to explain and publicize the reforms with the help of specialist advisors. This will be complemented by
workshops and seminars in Nigeria on the main issues confronting reform, organized under the auspices of
NCP and the respective line ministries for these sectors, and hy study tours for Nigerian policymakers and
stakeholders to countries that have implemented similar reforms.
The main elements of NCP's communications program - to be carried out by BPE with the assistance of
expert international and local consultants and communications firms - are:  (a) international
marketing and promotion both for the overall privatization program, as well as for specific major PE
divestiture transactions (aimed at eliciting interest of potential strategic investors); (b) nationwide and
regional publicity and public awareness raising programs through the general media (broadcasting - TV
and radio; and print), as well as focus groups (e.g. as already held for PE employees and union members),
and locally organized publicity and outreach campaigns; (c) nationwide and especially regional publicity
and information campaigns in each of the thirty-six states of the Nigerian federation to elicit investor and
saver interest in purchasing shares in PEs once divestiture to a strategic investor has been completed; (d)
speeches and presentations internationally, nationally and locally by senior FGN officials - including from
the NCP - involved in the implementation of the privatization program. These activities are being
undertaken by international and national communications and public relations firms, under the overall
management of BPE's communications and public affairs department.
Elements (a) and (c) above involve procurement of consulting services, media time, as well as printing of
prospectuses for the 100 PE divestiture transactions in Phases Two and Three of the FGN's privatization
program. This will be part of a major two-pronged outreach effort by FGN aimed at: (i) attracting
international strategic investors, especially in the major infrastructure and energy sectors; and (ii)
encouraging and facilitating broad-based Nigerian saver and investor interest in purchase of remaining
FGN shares in privatized PEs. The latter is being done through a regional allotment program that, in a first
stage, allocates blocks of the remaining FGN shares evenly across 36 states and 362 federal constituency
districts, giving thein inhabitants first refusal to purchase them. Much of this outreach effort is expected to
be funded by FGN out of privatization proceeds. The FGN will be the principal financier of the
privatization consensus building component of the project.
-44 -



Project Component 4 - US$18.49 million
Telecommunication Sector Reform
Sub-Component 4.1: Development of National Policy on Telecommunication (0.21 million)
The implementation agency for this subcomponent is BPE, on behalf of the Telecommunications Steering
Reform Implementation Committee (TSRIC). BPE has also funded this sub-component. The objective of
this sub-component was to prepare a new National Telecommunications Policy (NTP) that would replace
the policy published in October 1999. The government established TSRIC (chaired by the Minister of
Communications) to oversee this effort. This sub-component has been successfully completed. After being
reviewed, discussed and approved by the TSRIC, NCP and the Executive Council in September 2000, the
Federal Ministry of Communications (FMOC) published its new National Telecommunication Policy
document. The new policy calls for opening the sector for competition in all segments of the market,
establishing NCC as an independent regulator for the telecommunication industry, privatizing the
state-owned telecommunication operator (NITEL), encouraging private sector participation in all segments
of the sector, promoting regulatory and market initiative to address universal access, and ensuring that
Internet develops rapidly in both urban and rural areas.
Sub-Component 4.2: Legal and Regulatory Reform and New Entry (US$0.66 million).
The implementation agency for this subcomponent is BPE, on behalf of the Telecommunications Steering
Reform Inplementation Committee (TSRIC) and the Federal Ministry of Communications (FMOC). The
FGN plans to create a new legal and regulatory environment that establishes a level playing field,
encourages private investment and meets social goals. This requires the review, development and
implementation of new and comprehensive telecommunications legislation in Nigeria, and would be coupled
with the review and development of a detailed regulatory framework and preparation of key regulatory
instruments. Elements of this sub-component are: (a) review of existing legislation and preparation of new
telecommunication and related secondary legislation; (b) preparation of new licenses for NITEL and other
service providers; and (c) preparation of new and amendment of existing regulatory instruments, such as
frequency management, numbering plan, and tariff and interconnection regulations.
Sub-Component 4.3: Institutional Strengthening of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC
(US$3.20 million).
This sub-component will be implemented by NCC, the regulator of the telecommunications industry,
empowered to issue licenses, assign frequencies and regulate all telecommunications licensees and service
providers. It must also perform all regulatory functions consistent with its mandate to promote
telecommunication development in Nigeria. NCC needs to develop greater institutional capacity to
perform these functions in an effective manner. This requires NCC to be well structured, appropriately
staffed with trained persons, and to have in place the systems and procedures to fulfill its mandate.
Therefore, this sub-component is aimed at institutional strengthening of the NCC, and includes the
following elements: (a) developing an institutional strengthening plan (including organization, financial
systems, business planning and budgeting, procurement; systems and procedures for conduct of NCC's
main activities including dispute resolution, interconnection and tariff regulation and licensing); and
follow-up support to NCC through retained advisers in selected areas; (b) preparing and implementing a
human resources development and training plan for NCC, including identification of training needs,
training institutions, study tours, and twinning arrangements; and (c) financing the procurement of a
financial management system. The preparation of bidding documents for the procurement of this system
will be included under activity (a) of this sub-component.
-45 -



Sub-Component 4.4: Privatization of NITEL (US$3.99 million).
The implementation agency of this sub-component is BPE. The two state-owned enterprises in the
telecommunications sector, NITEL and M-Tel, have been merged recently into one company (NITEL).
The merged company will be privatized by selling at least 40 percent of its assets to a strategic partner. A
digital mobile license reserved for NITEL by NCC in advance of the recent mobile auction, will be bundled
with NITEL as a part of the transaction. The activities of this sub-component are: (a) appointing technical
and financial audit consultants to carry out the necessary due-diligence and financial audit of NITEL; (b)
privatization advisers (financial and legal) to assist in the sale process; and (c) marketing and promotion
program.
Sub-Component 4.5: Rural and Universal Access (US$3.54 million).
This sub-component will be implemented by NCC. Most rural areas are virtually deprived of access to
even basic communication services. The government recognizes that it needs to demonstrate quickly that
the benefits of sector reform and restructuring, including liberalization and privatization in the sector, will
accrue to both urban and rural areas. Therefore, the credit will support: (a) consultants that will be
appointed to assist TSRIC's universal access subcommittee in developing a universal access strategy and in
defining the optimal institutional arrangements to implement the strategy (most likely an independent
specialized agency or fund); (b) as institutional arrangements are established to administer the universal
access program, the credit will support the services of consultants hired to assist in identifying viable
strategic options and operational schemes for the provision of the necessary infrastructure and services
(these consultants will also develop few detailed demonstration projects, to be supported by the credit, and
prepare the necessary bidding documents for the implementation of these projects); and (c) the credit will
also provide seed investment for the demonstration projects.
Sub-Component 4.6: Radio-spectrum Management (US$6.87 million)
The implementation agency for this sub-component is NCC. The new NTP calls for establishing a
National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) in the FMOC under the chairmanship of the Minister of
Communications. NFMC will comprise representatives from NCC, NBC, Federal Ministry of Aviation,
Federal Ministry of Transport, Security Agencies, and representatives of licensed private operators.
According to the policy, NFMC will allocate bulk radio spectrum to NCC, NBC. NCC in turn will be
responsible for assigning the frequencies allocated to telecommunications services. The government has
requested IDA's support to modernize NCC's capacity to carry out its responsibilities in this regard. This
sub-component would consist of three elements: (a) radio-spectrum monitoring modernization plan to
develop institutional capacity, (b) definition of future requirements, and support for the procurement of the
needed equipment and systems; and (c) procurement and operationalization of NCC's part of the
radio-spectrum allocation and monitoring system.
Project Component 5 - US$25.23 million
Power Sector Reform
Sub-Component 5.1: Development of National Power Policy (US$0.05 million). The FGN has
recently approved a policy statement that sets out the new institutional arrangements for introducing
competition and an appropriate regulatory framework to the power sector. Preparation of this statement
was supported by consultancy services under the PPF for the PSP.
-46 -



Sub-Component 5.2: Legal and Regulatory Framework for the Power Market (US$8.76 million)..
NEPA is a state-owned vertically integrated power service provider with a monopoly on all functions
(generation, transmission, distribution, supply) associated with the public supply of electricity through the
national power grid. Its legal monopoly was removed, however, by the 1999 Privatization and
Commercialization Act. Nevertheless, the legal basis for the introduction of competition to the power
market through private ownership and provision of power supply services needs to be established under
new primary legislation. The regulatory functions for the power sector are currently the responsibility of
the Federal Ministry of Power and Steel. Under the proposed project, BPE has retained consultants to
assist in the development of a legal and regulatory framework for the reformed power sector and the
establishment of an autonomous regulatory agency (US$2.55 million). In addition, the proposed project
would finance consultants to carry out a cost-of-service study (US$0.52 million), a quality of service study
(US$0.52 million) and a tariff strategy study (US$0.52 million), and to provide assistance to the new
regulatory agency for developing key regulations covering tariffs, etc. (US$1.07 million). and the project
would also provide financial support for helping the regulatory agency to cover its start-up expenses
(US$3.58 million for initial and limited recurrent costs). These expenses cover recruitment, training, office
equipment, computer hardware and software, etc. incurred during its formative period before it is able to
raise sufficient funding for its operations from fees for providing services, such as issuing or renewing
licenses and reviewing tariff proposals, to entities operating in the new power market.
Sub-Component 5.3: Corporate Restructuring of NEPA for setting up corporate entities, and design
andformation of the new power market (US$3.08 million). Under the proposed Project, government
would retain the services of advisors to assist with restructuring the present vertically integrated structure
of power supply by breaking up NEPA's corporate functions into a number of generation entities, a
transmission entity, a number of distribution entities, and a system control entity (which may be merged
with the transmission entity), formation of these entities into separate corporations as joint stock
companies, and the design and formation of the new wholesale market for power. The design of the new
wholesale market operation covers (i) the method of dispatching power generation units, pricing wholesale
power, handling and settlement of contracts and market transactions; and (ii) the preparation of detailed
regulations for market operation, system dispatch and contract settlement.
Sub-Component 5.4: Privatization of Entities formedfrom NEPA (US$7.42 million). Under the
proposed Project, government would retain the services of: (i) financial/lead privatization advisors to
develop, prepare and execute a strategy for the privatization of the generation and distribution entities
formed from the unbundling of NEPA (US$3. 18 million), (ii) legal advisors for the privatization process
(US$3.18 million), and (iii) technical/environmental consultants (US$1.06 million).
The main tasks for each set of advisors would be as follows:
The financial/lead privatization advisors would assess the financial viability and valuation of the
entities to be privatized and advise on any modifications to the structure of the reformed entities, advise
on transaction structures (percent of ownership to be privatized initially, method of privatization, etc.),
assess investor interest and concerns, design and implement the pre-qualification process, prepare
information memoranda, co-ordinate "road-shows", and assist in the conduct of the bidding process and
the transfer of ownership. The remuneration of these advisors is likely to consist of the sum of a
retainer fee that would be financed under the proposed PSP, and a success fee that would be paid from
the privatization proceeds.
The legal advisors would work with the financial/lead privatization advisor to conduct legal due
-47 -



diligence on the entities to be privatized, draft articles of incorporation for these entities, prepare
contractual and bidding documents required for privatization, assist in assessing comments from
potential investors, and deal with post-award legal issues.
The technicalJenvironmental consultants would provide independent descriptions of the assets to be
privatized for inspection by potential investors, propose service quality standards for transmission and
distribution companies, estimate capital expenditures by private owners required to meet these
standards, estimate the feasible rate of improvement in technical efficiency under private ownership,
review current compliance with environmental regulations and associated liabilities, estimate costs of
remedial works to meet regulated standards, advise on allocation of these costs between Government
and privatized companies, and assist in drafting the technical and environmental sections of concession
contracts and share purchase agreements.
Sub-Component: 5.5: Supportfor power generation concessions (US$4.36 mUlion): The President of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria requested the World Bank Group to help FGN retain the services of
intemational engineering and legal advisors for developing a competitive bidding process to procure about
450 MW of power capacity under Build-Own-Operate arrangements as part of Government's Emergency
Power Program (EPP) for overcoming the country's power shortages quickly (US$0.71 million). These
advisors were financed under the PPF to prepare a Request-for-Proposals with draft project agreements
(power sales agreement, fuel supply agreement, site lease agreement, project implementation agreement).
The President also requested the World Bank Group to help concession some of NEPA's power generation
plants to private operators under Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer arrangements. The project thus includes
funding for consulting services for the concessioning of some of NEPA's hydropower stations (US$1.59
million), as well as for expert support for procuring and negotiating contracts with IPPs (US$2.06
million).
Sub-Component: 5.6: Increasing Access to Power Supplyfrom non-grid sources in both rural and
urban areas (US$1.57 million). Many towns and most rural communities in Nigeria are not covered by
the national power grid, and hence some state and local governments have installed local substitute power
supply systems. In addition, many peri-urban areas of towns covered by the national power grid are also
not served by the associated local distribution grids. At least two-thirds of Nigeria's population does not
have access to electricity supply, and increasing the level of access to electricity is a key objective of
government policy. The Directorate of Electrical Inspectorate Services in the Federal Ministry of Power
and Steel oversees govemment's current rural electrification program, and is in the early stages of
developing a rural electrification policy. An extensive range of issues needs to be examined for this policy.
The project would finance the services of consultants and specialists in rural and non-grid electricity supply
and marketing to help examine these issues and develop a strategy for increasing access to electricity.
Project Component 6 - US$14.36 million
Lagos State Water Corporation - Restructuring and Private Sector Participation
This component will support (i) the financing of emergency action plans identified as essential to support
LSWC prior to the introduction of a private sector participation solution through a privatization transaction
to be led by IFC as the principal privatization transaction advisor, and (ii) the financing of a part of the
specialist consultant costs for the privatization transaction.
IFC's mandate as the principal transaction advisor is structured in two phases: Phase I for due diligence
and strategy development and Phase II for the implementation of the selected private sector participation
strategy. At the time of this Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the IFC transaction team is nearing the
- 48 -



completion of Phase I, with studies costing about $2.0 million funded through a variety of sources. The
phase I report will outline among others several private sector participation options for LSG's
consideration.
Subcomponent 6.1: Fundingfor implementation of Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) private
sector participation transaction and commercial improvements to improve transaction success
(US$2.47 million). Once LSG has approved the preferred private sector participation option, Phase II of
the activity will be implemented. Consultants for Phase II will be mobilized and the following activities
undertaken toward participation in LSWC:
*      Develop and finalize private sector participation agreement (concession, lease,
or others).
Prepare and implement regulatory framework
*      Prepare and implement financial restructuring
*      Prepare and implement labor program
*      Perform asset valuation of LSWC
*      Arrange financing for post-privatized services (possibly IBRD/other funding)
*      Investor marketing
*      Bidder due diligence and pre-qualification
*      Contract pre-negotiation
-      Call for bids
*      Bid evaluation and award
*      Transaction closing
All Phase II consultants have been deternined except for the asset valuation consultant. All funding for
Phase II has also been sourced, except for a Technical Advisor, Asset Valuation Consultant, Commercial
Improvement Consultants and Legal Consultants. The costs for the Legal Consultants (about
US$900,000) is expected to be funded by the French Govemment. The proposed Project will fund the
costs of the Technical Advisor, Asset Valuation Consultant and a number of Commercial Improvement
Consultants, estimated at US$310,000, US$310,000 and US$1,860,000 respectively. LSWC is in an
insolvent financial position. Commercial Improvement Consultants will assist LWSC in implementing
customer database, billing and collection improvements. These improvements are expected to improve the
financial standing of LWSC prior to the privatization transaction to enable a successful transaction. The
competitive bidding process will be enhanced by the availability of better business data, as a result of
improved commercial management. Further details of this component are given in the Project File. It is
expected that Phase II will be implemented within 12 to 18 months.
Subcomponent 6.2: Fundingfor the Implementation of an Emergency Action Plan to support LSWC
during privatization transaction (US$11.9 million). The findings of the Phase I studies also indicated that
LSWC is in a dire financial and operational situation. Some essential equipment are in a state of disrepair
without backup capacity, risking a complete breakdown of the supply system.
The Phase I study recommended essential repairs and rehabilitation works of LSWC in order to keep the
system operational at the most basic level and avoid physical and commercial collapse of LSWC until the
private sector participation transaction has been carried through. The emergency action plan has been
designed to avoid system collapse, but avoids other rehabilitation requirements which would be carried out
as part of the business plan only when the private operator is in place.
-49 -



If the corporation were to stop producing water or delivering water suitable for human consumption, a
major crisis could occur and might force the government to resort to emergency measures that could disrupt
the private sector participation plan. The emergency action plan therefore prevents the water corporation
from facing major disruption prior to privatization and thus contributes to an orderly privatization.
The emergency action plan consists of repairs for essential equipment and services, including replacement
of items (parts or whole equipment). Further details of this component are given in the Project File.
- 50 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Local        Foreip         Total
Projc Cost BY Comeonent                    US $million    US $mifflon    US $million
1. General Privatization Support                            11.05         26.73         37.78
2. BPE Institutional Support                                22.13         28.18         50.31
3. Privatization Consensus Building                         33.95         23.99         57.94
4. Telecommunications Sector Reform                          1.56         15.31         16.87
5. Electric Power Sector Reform                              4.03         19.57         23.60
6. Urban Water Sector Reform - Lagos Water                   1.69         11.90         13.59
Total Baseline Cost                                         74.41        125.68        200.09
Physical Contingencies                                      0.06          0.86          0.92
Price Contingencies                                        17.31          6.64         23.95
Total Project Costs               91.78        133.18        224.96
Total Financing Required                91.78        133.18        224.96
Local        Forein.        TOW
Project        Sy Caev    -              US $million    US $m0lon    US $mmion
Civil Works                                                    0.42           0.00          0.42
Goods                                                          1.00           3.19          4.19
Supply and Installation                                        0.20          13.47         13.67
Consultants                                                   62.37         105.68        168.05
Training and Study Tours                                       0.19          10.84         11.03
Incremental Operating costs                                   27.60           0.00         27.60
Total Project Costs     91.78          133.18       224.96
Total Financing Required      91.78         133.18        224.96
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 224.96 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 50.8% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 51 -



Annex 4
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1. Background
The economic analysis considers the revenue improvements to be achieved with the technical assistance in
sub-component 5.1 of the project and the technical improvements to be carried out per sub-component 5.2
of the project. It employs a cost benefit analysis, using A "with" and "without" project methodology, and a
five year analysis period at a 10 percent discount rate. All taxes were removed in the conversion from
financial to economic costs. No macroeconomic conversion factors have been used to convert financial to
economic flows. The assumptions for "with" and "without" project scenario are the same as in the financial
analysis.
In the "with" project scenario, the extra financial revenue accruing to LSWC does not represent any
additional use of water by consumers, since this increase in revenue is mainly due to bringing previously
unbilled customers onto the LSWC's customer database. No economic benefit is attributed to this financial
flow.
The only benefit that is measured in the economic analysis is the opportunity cost of the potential reduction
of available piped water due to the deterioration of the supply network in the "without" project scenario.
Currently, consumers not supplied by LSWC are being supplied by other vendors at higher prices. It is
assumed that only 20 percent of the reduction in piped water supply is replaced by tanker supplied water, at
a cost of N1 50 per cubic meter. The rest of the reduction in volume is not assumed to have any economic
value to the consumer (a significant amount of water currently supplied to consumers is wasted).
The base case economic IRR was estimated at 27 percent and net present value of benefits at $5.4 million.
2. Sensitivity Analysis
Sensitivity and Switching Values Analysis were performed on the critical variables - project cost and
volume reduction in supply in the "without" project case.
Scenario           Description                                Financial      Economic
NPV / IRR      NPV / IRR
Base Case           See assumptions for base case             $4.8m / 19%     $5.4m / 27%
Project Cost       Up by 20%                                  $2.3m / 14%     $3.0m / 19%
Water Reduction     Only 20% reduction in volume supplied in  $2.6m / 15%     $2.0m /17%
w/o project scenario.
- 52 -



Scenario           Description                                  Result
I                  By how much does project cost need to increase   47%
for economic NPV = 0
2                  What is the minimum reduction in supplied    18%
volume in w/o project scenario for economic
NPV to be positive?
Financial Analysis
1.    Background
The financial analysis considers the revenue improvements to be achieved with the technical assistance in
sub-component 5.1 of the project and the technical improvements to be carried out per sub-component 5.2
of the project. Other components and sub-components of the proposed credit are purely technical
assistance operations, where economic and financial analyses are not required. These analyses have been
done using information reported in the findings of IFC and IFC's consultants during Phase I of IFC's
assignment as principal financial advisor to LSG on the privatization transaction of LSWC.
2.    Main Assumptions
The assumptions are based on information from the IFC Project Profile Report on Lagos Water
Privatization dated August 30, 2000, the Ortech/Consult4/Management System Consultants Corp. final
report on "Assistance to increase the billing amounts and improve efficiency of revenue collection" dated
July 23, 2000, and Arthur Andersen's Phase I Inception Report on LSWC dated May 5, 2000.
A summary of sub-components 5.1 and 5.2, and their implications and thus assumptions used in the
following analysis is as follows (A detailed description of the planned investment can be found in the
Project File):
*   Technical Component: During the technical evaluation done by IFC's consultants, it was
determined that LSWC's system is deteriorating very badly with much equipment becoming
unserviceable. Some essential systems e.g. transmission mains were in imminent risk of
failure. A plan was put forward to arrest the situation, prevent system collapse and secure the
maximum amount of water from the existing system. This is estimated to consist of $11.9
million in capital works - technical repair and component replacement works. In the absence
of further detailed information, the financial summary of LSWC does not assume that this
component will generate additional revenues for LSWC, but that it will merely maintain the
status quo of revenue and costs. Without this component however, the financial situation of
LSWC will most likely deteriorate quickly (the FIRR analysis assumes a "without" project
scenario involving the loss of a quarter of LSWC revenues by the end of the first year, and
remaining constant thereafter). This investment is assumed to be implemented within the first
year.
* Commercial Component: Several commercial measures were identified to be implemented to
provide for a fast track improvement program in the commercial operations of LSWC. LSWC
- 53 -



will undertake these measures with the assistance of consultants to be provided through the
commercial technical assistance under sub-component 5.1. These measures are estimated to
cost $1.9 million, and will generate additional revenue due mainly to increased billings. This
program is assumed to be implemented within the first year.
Other Assumptions
*   The cost of the project is assumed to be received by LSWC as a grant.
*   A project life of five years has been assumed, with a residual of eight times final cashflow.
*   The additional billings generated by the conmmercial imnprovements are assumed to result in
additional administrative expenses of N6.4 million. This figure was estimated as a direct ratio
of expected new revenue to current revenue, multiplied by current expenses for computers,
postage and cables, stationery and printing, telephone & telex and collection expense.
*   Base year financial data have been estimated/obtained from LSWC's financial statements for
year ended December 31, 1998. The balance sheet data is considered to be less reliable - for
example, LSWC does not have a comprehensive asset register. In fact, Phase II of IFC's
privatization transaction will include an asset valuation exercise. As an approximation and in
the absence of further data, the existing revenue and expenses are assumed to be retained for
the forecast years.
   In line with LSWC practice, water sales revenue is accounted for in the profit and loss
accounts on a cash basis (and not on an accrual basis).
* Local inflation has been assumed at 11 percent per year.
-   As an approximation, depreciation for existing assets is maintained. Depreciation of new
assets have been assumed to be straight line over 20 years.
e   LSWC is technically illiquid and operates at a deficit. It has been assumed that cash flow
deficits is made up through LSG contributions to LSWC's equity each year.
The cost and additional revenues of the sub-components are summarized in the following table.
COMPONENT                         COSTS                   ADD. REVENUE (Naira)   Remarks
Technical Component               $11,890,000                                    No additional revenues
assumed. Status quo
maintained.
Commercial Component
Commercial Consultancy            $1,860,000
Customer Database Survey                                   N50,000,000           Per year
Tariff Review                                              N25,000,000           Per year
Billing and Collection                                     N20,000,000           First year only
Customer Management                                        N9,000,000            First year only
Add. Admin Expense                N6,489,117
The projected financial summary of LSWC is presented in the table at the end of this annex.
- 54 -



The emergency action plan helps by (i) averting a larger crisis from the risk of failure of LSWC's system,
and (ii) provide some immediate improvement to LSWC's financial ratios by decreasing the annual
operational deficits. This is shown in the financial summary.
It is clear however, that LSWC is operating at annual operational deficits. The current proposed
investments under the project is not on its own aimed at achieving sustainability, rather it is to achieve what
is considered a minimum basic level which will facilitate the privatization transaction for LSWC. It is
expected that the private sector participation transaction will be the vehicle to turn LSWC around towards
a sustainable operation without the need for state subvention.
3.     Results
The base Case financial IRR was estimated at 19 percent. The cashflow were discounted using a discount
rate of 10 percent, which is the Bank/IDA's typical hurdle rate for water and sanitation projects. The Net
present value of financial flows were estimated at $4.8 million.
- 55 -



Fhnco1 Stnmary fr RvPue Emm Poiect Enbtis
Laam Sh* aCoCrpowi&m
Yearsaiding2OO0bi2005
(In t'm&nd of                      - )ntUS 
Yew                                             I1 12031                    1 1 mm     X_S
J   Fomat For            ]   Ftcas   I   Fcm                Fa             Fciat
Reeui                                                                 6,C081         7,721          7,721          7,721          7,721          7,721
Ot D Fp                                                              IZ63t5         14,086         14,086         14,086         14,08t5        14,086
CostofPnndir             11,16          1Z387          1              12,37          1              1Z
ATmtave  " Otff" O0td                    1,476          1,699          1,699          1,699          1,699          1,699
Q ht Ong                                                            (6,555)        (665)          (               (365)          (t653          (
Nu hrre                                                            (20,111)       (20,653)       (19,970        (19,354)        (18,799)       (1829S9
F rksS lbrrr:
S"wfFwx
h1ma1Souas           (137211)       (Wt90)         (12,390)       (1;390)        (12,390)       (12,390)
IBRDlar 
IDA Cjo&s (Grant          13,7               0
Eqwtyhivmel              9,56          12,393         1Z390          1,39           12390           1Z
TOWI Sacus                                                           10,10              0                                                           0
t                 ~~~~~~~~11 
CRo ECa  J                  w0                             0                               
WaigC CWai h-as                   Idhg  c           (1,784)
Tda A      Ricrs                                                     10,1 l
Amft
OjTat A&%s                                                            5,759          5,189          4,674          4211           3,7            3,41
less Cut Liafb                                                      (7,790D        (7,018|        (632)           (5,696)       (5,132)         (4,623)
NetCunt Ases orWakrlgC  t                                           g3 1)          (1,8309        (1,648)        (1 ,485)       (1,338'         (10)
Nd Ficed and O1t Lrg Tam Ass                                        131,126        111,915         95,224         84743          68,196         57,343
Total Nd Ass                                                        129,095        110 5           93,576         7928           66,85          56,138
Lag Tamrn Dd1                                                        79,532         71,650         64,550         58,153         52,3           47,19
Eqity                                                                49,563         38,435         29,026         21,104         14,             8,93
ToaILTDebt"aai  F129.095                                                           I IQ08          935R           79!            66             56,138
CpT&g1 mras%ofRecei                                                  -108/          -82,          -82/           -82 /          8/
NdVhan as% dRc.e                                                     -3310'         -26P,/         -259/         -251o/         -243/          -237D/
Rdm on Aaa hls  Capiia                                                               -12/          .I50/          -19/           -26/           -39
DSvixCo~
% of Toal (ZCp  F    ae Fiw d w byhtmtuims*                            O(/             O(X            O(X/           o)/            0X/
Cut tRatio                                                              0.             0.             0.              .             0.             0.
Debt as % of Total Cap2t,m                                                            650/ //                       73I            78/           840
- 56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Financial Management Action Plan (for BPE, NCC and LSWC)
The Financial Management Action Plan is condensed in this Annex. Individual Action Plans for BPE, NCC and LSWC
are available in the project file.
A GENERAL
Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE)
Reporting to the project Oversight and Monitoring Committee (POMC), financial consultants for the
project as a whole will be retained by BPE, as the lead implementing agency, to prepare quarterly
consolidated financial statements and progress reports.
BPE will be responsible for ensuring that financial management, procurement and reporting procedures
for its component of the credit will be acceptable to the government, the World Bank Group and other
collaborating partners. The financial management system (FMS) for the BPE component must support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency
and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. Specifically, the
FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information
that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall progress
towards the achievement of its objectives.
Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC)
The NCC was established by the Federal Government of Nigeria under Decree 75 of 1992 as the main
regulatory body in the telecommunication sector. It will be one of the project's implementing agencies
and will be responsible for ensuring that financial management, procurement and reporting procedures
for its component of the credit will be acceptable to the government, the World Bank Group and other
collaborating partners.
The financial management arrangements for the NCC's component must be capable of producing
timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan,
implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives.
Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC)
The LSWC was established by the Lagos State Government under the Lagos State Edict No 25 of
1986 as a body corporate with the responsibilities for controlling and managing all waterworks and
groundwater in the State. The Corporation is governed by a Board of Directors whose members are
appointed by the State Governor. The LSWC will be one of the project's implementing agencies and
will be responsible for ensuring that financial management, procurement and reporting procedures for
its component of the credit will be acceptable to the government, the World Bank Group and other
collaborating partners.
- 57 -



The financial management arrangements for the LSWC's component must be capable of producing
timely, understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan,
implement, monitor and appraise the project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives.
B FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
Financial Management Committee (FMC)
BPE will appoint a representative Financial Management Committee (FMC to review the Project
Management Report (PMR) every quarter. NCC has a Management Committee comprising the Chief
Executive Officer and Departmental Heads. Under the credit, the Committee will review the Project
Management Reports (PMRs) every quarter. LSWC has a Management Committee comprising the
Chief Executive Officer, the General Manager, the Project Co-ordinator, and the departmental AGMs.
Under the credit, the Committee will review the Project Management Reports (PMRs) every quarter.
Each of the PMRs will comprise:
Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the respective FMC/MCs will review and
approve Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
Project Progress, i.e., Output Monitoring Report (OMR). The format and details of the OMR will
need to be developed. An important aspect of the OMR will be the accompanying narrative
interpreting the project's progress with agreed financial performance indicators and how costs to date
relate to those planned at appraisal, and the likely effect on the project by completion.
Procurement Management (including Goods, Works and Services).
Staffing
BPE: A Project Accountant has been appointed to direct and guide the financial operations. A
Procurement Specialist as well as support staff will be in place. Varying levels of staff training will be
required in financial, management and government accounting; information systems and computer
applications; and, in particular, procedures relating to utilization of funds (e.g., Special Accounts,
SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be provided.
NCC: The Finance & Accounts Department (FAD) will have the primary responsibility for the
financial management system. The FAD has three professionally qualified accountants, one of whom
will be appointed as Project Accountant to direct and guide the financial operations of the project. A
Procurement Specialist as well as support staff will be in place. Varying levels of staff training will,
however, be required in financial, management and government accounting; information systems and
computer applications; and, in particular, procedures relating to utilization of funds (e.g., Special
Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be
provided.
LSWC: A professionally qualified Project Accountant will head the Finance and Accounts Unit and
will work closely with the Chief Executive Officer, the AGM (Finance and Administration) and the
AGM (Planning and Budget) in directing and guiding the financial management operations of the
- 58 -



project. The Privatization Accountant, a Procurement Specialist and support staff will be in place.
Staff training will be required in some of the following areas: financial, management and government
accounting; information systems and computer applications; procedures relating to utilization of funds
(e.g., Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement); etc. On-the-job coaching will
also be provided.
Financial Procedures Manual/Internal Audit
BPE: The Project Accountant, in consultation with the Director Finance and Administration, the
Deputy Director Finance and Accounts, the Director of Operations and the Procurement Specialist will
document the intemal control systems in a Financial Procedures Manual. Project activities will be
periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of the BPE.
NCC: The Project Accountant, in consultation with the Head of Finance and the Procurement
Specialist, will document the intemal control systems in a Financial Procedures Manual. Project
activities will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of the NCC. However, for that Unit
to effectively discharge its responsibilities, it will require strengthening as the Unit's Head is currently
on study leave.
LSWC: The Project Accountant, in consultation with the AGMs Finance and Accounts; Commercial;
Operations; and Planning and Budget, the Project Co-ordinator, and the Procurement Specialist, will
document the internal control systems in a Financial Procedures Manual. Work on developing the
Manual is already underway. In due course, the Manual, as a living document, will be regularly
updated to meet new needs. Project activities will be periodically reviewed by the Internal Audit Unit of
the LSWC. Plans are underway to strengthen and refocus the Unit under the leadership of a qualified
chartered accountant as it is presently under-resourced.
Accounting System and Information Technology
BPE: Pending the computerization of BPE's financial management systems, the Project Accountant
will introduce a spreadsheet system (Excel) as a transitional arrangement to facilitate timely
accounting for the project Funds. In due course, the proposed interim arrangements will be subsumed
within the BPE's new financial management systems. Provision has been made in the Budget for
hardware and software requirements.
NCC: Although the financial management reporting system at the NCC is computerized, the software
will require some modifications to ensure that the financial management information needs of the
project are adequately accommodated. Pending the assessment of the software capabilities, the Project
Accountant will introduce a spreadsheet system (Excel) as a transitional arrangement to facilitate
timely accounting for the project Funds. In due course, the proposed interim arrangements will be
subsumed within the NCC's financial management systems.
LSWC: The LSWC operates a manual accounting system at present. However, it is planning to
computerize its financial management system during 2001. A Consultant has been engaged to develop
an IT Strategy for the Corporation. Pending the computerization of LSWC's financial management
systems, the Project Accountant will introduce a spreadsheet system (Excel) as a transitional
arrangement to facilitate timely accounting for the project Funds. In due course, the proposed interim
arrangements will be subsumed within the LSWC's new financial management systems. Funds have
been identified for hardware and software requirements.
- 59 -



Planning and Budgeting
BPE: Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the government's budgetary process. The
Project Accountant, in consultation with the Director Finance and Administration, the Deputy Director
Finance and Accounts, the Director of Operations, the Procurement Specialist and the FMC will be
responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow Forecast.
NCC: Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the government's budgetary process. The
Project Accountant, in consultation with the Head of Finance, the Procurement Specialist and the
Management Committee, will be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual Cash Flow
Forecast.
LSWC: Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with the govemment's budgetary process. The
Project Accountant, in consultation with the AGMs Finance and Accounts, Commercial, Operations,
and Planning and Budget (who is a qualified chartered accountant), the Project Co-ordinator, the
Procurement Specialist and the MC, will be responsible for preparing the Project's Quarterly/Annual
Cash Flow Forecast.
Government Accounting-Cash Versus Accruals
The BPE, NCC and LSWC will individually meet the government's requirement for monthly cash
accounting to the Office of the Accountant General (Federation and State). This requirement is not
expected to change in the short to medium term. Thus, for the foreseeable future, project funds will be
accounted for on a cash basis. In due course, for management reporting purposes, the FMC of BPE,
the Management Committee and the Board of NCC, and the MC of LSWC will decide whether to
convert to an accruals basis of accounting.
Procurement of Goods and Services (for BPE, NCC and LSWC)
World Bank Group and govemment procurement regulations will be observed. Financial management
staff will be conversant with those procedures, as internal control issues and the incurring of liabilities
on behalf of the project will be matters of concern to the financial management function.
Procurement procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manuals of BPE, NCC and
LSWC. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments,
will be prepared quarterly by each implementing agency.
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
The BPE, NCC and LSWC will each maintain 3 bank accounts as follows:
(a) Current Account in Naira with Bank X (Part 1 Account) to which draw-downs from the Special
Account will be credited once per month (towards the end of the month) in respect of incurred eligible
expenses. Following the immediate payment of those liabilities, the balance on this account should be
zero at the end of each month.
(b) Current Account in Naira with Bank X (Part 2 Account) to which Counterpart Funding will be
deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and, thereafter, it will be replenished
monthly.
(c) Special Account with Bank X in US Dollars/Naira.
- 60 -



Additionally, an IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington), showing movements on the credit, will be
maintained by BPE, as the lead implementing agency. All bank accounts will be reconciled monthly;
identified differences will be expeditiously investigated. Control procedures for the operation of all
bank accounts will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements (for BPE, NCC and LSWC)
By effectiveness, the implementing agencies will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements (World
Bank Group's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in
the short term, existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank Group's Disbursement
Handbook will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitment. However,
the appointment of financial management staff, coupled with the development of the financial
management systems of BPE, NCC and LSWC, should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based
disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness.
PMR integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement and audit with
physical progress through the Project Management Report (PMR), as summarized above. In due
course, the adoption of PMR should enable the implementing agencies to move away from
time-consuming voucher-by-voucher disbursement methods to quarterly disbursements to the Special
Account based on the PMR.
Fixed Assets/Consultants/Civil Works (for BPE, NCC and LSWC)
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. A Contracts Register will be
maintained for all contracts with consultants. A Procurement Management Report, showing
procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared quarterly.
Financial Reporting (Monthly and Quarterly/Annually)
Monthly Cash Reporting
In compliance with the government's reporting requirements, each implementing agency will be
responsible for preparing a Monthly Return to the Office of the Accountant General of the
Federation/State for incorporation into the National/State Accounts.
Quarterly/Annually
The Financial Statements of BPE, NCC and LSWC are likely to include:
A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Loan Category/by Activity;
Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management when
preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
Special Account Statement/Reconciliation showing deposits and replenishments received, payments
substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at the
- 61 -



end of the fiscal year;
SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to disbursements by
the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
A Cash Forecast for the next two quarters.
Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank Group
publications - Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The
Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project
Financial Management Manual (February 1999).
External Audit (for BPE, NCC and LSWC)
Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms of
reference. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
financial year end. Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance
with International Auditing Standards (IFAC pronouncements), the auditor will be required to include a
separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn under SOE
procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements.
Regarding the Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as to the degree of
compliance with World Bank Group procedures and the balance at the year-end. Additionally, the
auditor will be required to prepare a separate Management Letter giving observations and comments,
and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records, systems, controls and
compliance with financial covenants.
- 62 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement
General: All goods and supply and installation to be financed under the IDA credit would be
procured in accordance with the appropriate IDA Guidelines ("Guidelines - Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", January 1995 and as revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999. All consultant services to be financed under the IDA Credit
shall be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines ("Guidelines - Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January
1999). Project elements and their estimated costs and proposed method of procurement are
summarized in Tables A, Al, and B. Procurement of Works, Goods and services would be the
responsibility of the specialist staff recruited into the finance and administration departments and
suitably trained staff within each of the Implementing Agencies (BPE, LSWC and NCC).
Procurement Organization and Capacity Assessment: The procurement responsibility will be
carried out with assistance from Procurement Consultants (until procurement capacity is built up
in each implementing agency). To ensure that in-house capacity is built up and remains at project
completion, consultants with international procurement expertise will be engaged on a retainer
basis to provide assistance on "as needed" basis. The Procurement Consultants shall also have the
responsibility to train the designated procurement staff of the Implementing Agencies. The Banks
Standard Request for Proposals (RFPs) for Selection of Consultants (July 1997, and revised in
April 1998 and July 1999) shall be used for consulting services, while the Bank Standard Bidding
Document (SBD) for Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment (February 1999), for
Procurement of Goods (January 1995, revised March 2000), and the Standard Bid Evaluation
Form for Procurement of Goods and Works (April 1996) shall be used for procurement of supply
and installation of plant and equipment, goods and works in consultation with the IDA. A formal
assessment of the capacity of BPE, LSWC and NCC for this task has been carried out according to
Procurement Services Policy Group (OCSPR) guidelines dated August 11, 1998 (see document in
project file).
Advertising: A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and would be published before
Board presentation in the UN Development Business and in a national newspaper as provided
under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all
outstanding Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all International
Consulting Services. In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice is required for all ICB and all
consulting services with a value in excess of US$100,000 prior to the preparation of the short list.
Procurement under the project
Consulting Services and Training/Study Tours: The total value for consulting services will be $
166.91 million (US$86.20 million would be financed by IDA), and for Training services will be
$11.27 million (US$5.20 million would be financed by IDA ). These services among others,
includes studies and reports, consultancy services for legal and regulatory framework for the power
market, legal and regulatory reforrn for telecommunications, financial and legal restructuring of
companies and sale implementation, training, workshops, study tours and focus group discussions
for the various components of the project. Selection and appointment of consultants for studies and
- 63 -



support of project execution will be carried out in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The
Bank's Standard Request for Proposals will be used for the solicitation and appointment of
consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments i.e. those not exceeding
six months, carried out by individuals. As a rule, consultant services will be procured though
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. In addition, where appropriate to the
assignment, quality-based selection will be used.
All consultancy assignments estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be procured through
QCBS and would be advertised in Development Business and in at least one national newspaper.
In addition, the scope of the service will be advertised in an intemational newspaper or magazine
seeking "expressions of interest." In the case of assignments estimated to cost less than
US$150,000, the assignment may be advertised nationally and the shortlist may be made up
entirely of national consultants, provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in
the country and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications of consulting firms which have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. All consulting services for individual consultants will be procured under
individual contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines.
Some consltancy services may with the agreement of IDA be procured on a single-source basis.
Supply and Installation and Goods: The total value for Supply and Installation under the project
is US$13.67 million (US$12.83 million would be financed by IDA), while the total value of goods
is US$4.93 million (US$3.71 rnillion would be financed by IDA). The project would finance
procurement of new radio-spectrum monitoring and communication equipment, office equipment,
computers hardware and software etc. under ICB procedures for the NCC component. Supply and
Installation, as well as Goods Procurement for the Lagos State Water Corporation component, will
include: electric power generation and other equipment for emergency repair works, pumps,
filtration systems, bulk meters, chemicals for water treatment, vehicles and computer equipment.
To the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be procured by the Implementation
Agencies would be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk purchase.
Most of the above procurement would consist of replacement items (parts and whole equipment)
which are meant for emergency rehabilitation works on existing facilities. In these cases, the
imported equipment will be from original manufacturers, and it is envisaged that procurement will
be done directly with the specific equipment manufacturers, through Direct Contracting procedures
in accordance with Bank Guidelines, and prior review of all procedures and documentation. In light
of the emergency nature of this component retroactive financing has been approved for a portion of
the above packages. However, LSWC has been advised that advance procurement action is taken
at its own risk and does not commit IDA to making the Credit available for the project. To the
extent possible and practicable, all goods and equipment to be procured by the Implementation
Agencies would be grouped into bid packages to take advantage of bulk purchase.
Procurement Methods: Each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000
or more would be procured under ICB procedures using IDA Standard Bidding Documents. Each
contract for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 up to an aggregate of US$ 1,000,000
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) using procedures acceptable to
IDA. Procurement for readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specification commodities for individual contracts of less than US$30,000, up to an aggregate of
US$300,000.00, would be procured under National shopping (NS) or International shopping
- 64 -



procedures as detailed in paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits". The aggregate limit of $6,500,000 for direct contracting procedures.
Each quarterly progress report of the project would include a table setting out the number and
value (in US$ equivalent) of contracts issued through Local, International Shopping and National
Competitive Bidding during the quarter as well as the cumulative total value (in US$ equivalent) of
contracts under each of these two procedures from the date of the project start-up.
Civil Works: Procurement of Pipe Anchorage estimated for an amount of US$0.42 million, under
the Lagos Water (LSWC) component, will not be financed by IDA.
IDA Prior Review: Table B provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for goods
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 of
appendix I of the Guidelines. Other contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with
paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Guidelines. All consulting contracts costing US$100,000
equivalent or more for firms, and US$50,000 or more for individuals, will be subject to IDA prior
review. All single-source selection of consultants, terms of reference for consulting services and
overseas training will be subject to IDA prior review. Any exceptional extensions to non-prior
review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the prior review thresholds will
be subject to IDA clearance. All training programs will be reviewed and agreed bi-annually, as part
of the procurement plan.
Procurement Plans: BPE, NCC, and LSWC will prepare a Global Procurement Strategic Plan
(GPSP), and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year of the project, showing
processing time and steps for each procurement contract and will forward these documents to IDA.
The GPP and the DPP, which will be updated yearly, shall be sent to IDA for clearance not later
than three months before the end of each fiscal year. The implementing agencies have agreed to
provide for the Bank's review, DPPs for each procurement process until March 2003, and
preliminary ones for subsequent years. These plans which are under active preparation would form
part of the Project Implementation Manuals of the Implementing Agencies under the proposed
Credit.
-65 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Prourmer   MOthod
1. Works                                                                            0.42         0.42
C) 0                            ()         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                              0.53             2.26           1.97          0.17         4.93
(0.48)           (1.74)         (1.49)        (0.00)      (3.71)
3. Services                                                          129.19         37.72       166.91
o)              ()           (86.20)        (0.00)      (86.20)
4. Supply and Installation            7.18             0.00           6.49          0.00         13.67
(7.18)           (0.00)         (5.65)        (0.00)      (12.83)
5. Training and Workshop              0.00             0.00           11.03         0.24         11.27
(0.00)           (0.00)         (5.20)        (0.00)      (5.20)
Recurrent                             0.00             0.00           9.75          18.01       27.76
(0.00)           (0.00)         (6.35)        (0.00)      (6.35)
Total                              7.71             2.26          158.43         56.56       224.96
(7.66)           (1.74)        (104.89)       (0.00)     (114.29)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 66 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selwuon mUo~thc
Consutant Servic.
Expnditure Cat"oy   O0m0      Q8s    SFB    LOS        CK    ;;Other   N.B.F. Toatc.*t
A. Firms             113.29   4.00    3.00    2.00      0.00    4.00    36.81    163.10
(75.13)  (3.00)  (2.00)  (1.00)   (0.00)  (3.00)  (0.00)   (84.13)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.91    0.00    0.91      3.82
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.07)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.07)
Total 113.29   4.00    3.00    2.00     2.91    4.00    37.72    166.92
(75.13)  (3.00)  (2.00)  (1.00)   (2.07)  (3.00)  (0.00)   (86.20)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 67 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
EX::n tur caeoy    b US$illin)metho                                  rS milos
1. Works                                               N.B.F.                   NA
2. Goods               Equal or greater than 0.10     ICB\DC                     All
Less than 0.10             NCB                       No
Equal or less than 0.03       NS/IS                      No
3. Services and Training   Equal or great than 0.1  QCBS, QBS, Other             All
(Firm)
4. Services and Training  Equal or great than 0.05    CQ, Other                  All
(Individuals)
5. Services                      all                Single Source                All
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$75 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 68 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
`Exp,ndft0 C.gory            Amount In US$mJf1on          Pi  -      "
1. Supply and Installation                 11.54          100% foreign; 100% local (ex-factory);
40% local
2. Goods                                   3.02                         90%
3. Consultants' Services                   77.00                        100%
4. Training and Study Tours                4.85                         100%
5. Incremental Operating Cost              5.06            For BPE 80% in 2001, 70% in 2002,
60% in 2003, 50% in 2004, and 40% in
2005 and thereafter
For NERC 90% in 2001-3, 70% in 2004
and thereafter
6. Refunding of PPF                        2.00
7. Unallocated                             10.82
Total Project Costs                       114.29
Total                                     114.29
Disbursement Arranaements
The implementing agencies would be expected to adopt quarterly PMR-based reporting system .... within
18 months (i.e., on or about December 31, 2002 . In cases where country/project circumstances warrant,
direct payment and /or special commitment procedures may be allowed as agreed by IDA.
The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultants services, training and study tours; against 100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent
of local expenditures at ex-factory cost, and 40 percent of other local expenditures for supply and
installation; against 90 percent for goods; and against a declining annual percentage for incremental
operating costs (for BPE: 80 percent in 2001, 70 percent in 2002, 60 percent in 2003, 50 percent in 2004,
40 percent in 2005; and for NERC : 90 percent in 2001-3, and 70 percent in 2004-5). As projected by the
World Bank Group's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed by four months
after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures
of contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000 each or less for goods, ii) US$100,000 for consulting
firms, (iii) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants, iv) training, and v) incremental operating costs,
which may be claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation
supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by BPE and the other Implementation
Agencies and will be available for review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project
auditors. All disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the
procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
- 69 -



Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for supply and installation, goods and services, the
Borrower shall open and maintain in US Dollars four separate special deposit accounts: the BPE Special
Account, the NCC Special Account, the NERC Special Account, and the LSWC Special Account in a
commercial bank to on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The authorized allocation of each special account would
be an estimated 4 months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. The details are provided in the
Development Credit Agreement. To the extent possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid
through the special account.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a monthly
basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as my be required until December
31, 2002 after which further deposits to the Special Accounts will be on a quarterly basis as determined
through the Project Management Reporting System. Disbursements will be channeled through the Special
Account, but in lieu of using the Special Account, the Borrower may choose to pre-finance project
expenditures and seek reimbursement from IDA.
- 70 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Eroject Schedule                                   Planned          |tuall
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           16
First Bank mission (identification)              10/18/99                     10/18/99
Appraisal mission departure                      10/18/2000                   02/26/2001
Negotiations                                     12/05/2000                   04/05/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    09/17/2001
Prepared by:
The Bureau of Public Enterprises
Preparation assistance:
Project Preparation Facility of US$2 million.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Paul Ballard                      Team Leader, AFTPS
Trevor Byer                       Co-Team Leader, AFMNG
Anil Kapur                        Privatization Specialist, LCSFP
Shenhua Wang                      Privatization Specialist, AFTPS
Mohammad Mustafa                  Telecommunication Specialist Coordinator, CITPO
Juan Navas-Sabater                Telecommunication Policy/Rural Specialist, CITPO
Peter Smith                       Telecommunication Regulation Specialist, CITPO
David Satola                      Telecommunication Lawyer, LEGOP
John Besant-Jones                 Power Specialist Coordinator, INFEG
Tonci Bakovic                     Power Reform Specialist, CPW
Mangesh Hoskote                   Power Specialist, AFTEG
Scott Sinclair                    Power Guarantee Specialist, PFG
Ian Alexander                     Power Policy Specialist, PSAPT
Malcolm Davies-Cosgrove           Power Rural Specialist, AFTEG
Denise Leonard                    Manager, Private Sector Advisory - Policy and Transactions, PSAPT
Solomon Quaynor                   Senior Investment Officer, PSAPT
Bernard Portier                   Principal Engineer, PSAPT
David Henley                      Sr. Sanitary Engineer, AFTU I
Eugene Okongwu                    Sr. Sanitary Engineer, AFTUl
Fook Chuan Eng                    Financial Analyst, AFTU1
Jumoke Jagun                      Investment Officer, PSAPT
Maggie Zhou                       Investment Officer, PSAPT
Mike Omaliko                      Investment Officer,CAFA3
Frank Ajilore                     Investmnent Officer,CAFA3
Ola Idris Animashaun              Investment Officer,CAFA3
Enrique Domenge                   Investment Officer, CAFTG
Andrew Bartley                    Senior Investment Officer, CPW
- 71 -



Bola Bamidele                      Young Professional, YPP
Karen Hudes                        Senior Counsel
Anthony Martin Hegarty             Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
Mikael Mengesha                    Senior Energy Specialist, AFTQK
Bayo Awosemusi                     Procurement Specialist, AFMNG
Jane Tola-Sijuade                  Disbursement Trainer, AFMNG
Georgette Johnson                  Team Assistant, AFTPS
Maureen Blassou                    Program Assistant, CITPO
Lizmara Kirchner                   Program Assistant, CITPO
Kashmira Daruwalla                 Procurement Analyst, CITPO
- 72 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Country Procurement Assessment Report, CPAR, November, 2000
Financial Management Assessments Action Plans for BPE, NCC and LSWC, October and December
2000*
Procurement Assessments and Action Plans for BPE, NCC and LSWC, August and December 2000*
Aid-Memoire of Bank Pre-Appraisal Mission, November/December, 2000*
C. Other
Public Enterprise (Privatization and Commercialization) Act 1999.
National Council for Privatization - Blueprintfor the Privatization Program (December 1999 - March
2003).
BPE's brochure with a description of its mandate and organization, 2000.
BPE audited accounts, 1998, 1999.
BPE Nigeria: Privatization Procedures and Policies Note, April, 2001 *
BPE  Environmental Pre-Audit Report on Privatization Program, February 7, 2001 (lodged with
Infoshop)*
BPE: Privatization Program Phase 2a Implementation Plan, February and April, 2001
Telecommunication Sector
Federal Republic of Nigeria - "National Telecommunications Policy", September, 2000.
Terms of Reference for advisors assisting with the preparation of new telecommunications regulatory
framework and licenses*
Terms of Reference for advisors assisting with the preparation of new licenses for NITEL and M-Tel*
Terms of Reference for advisors assisting with NCC's institutional development, resident advisory services,
and staff training and development for NCC*
Terms of Reference for privatization financial and legal advisors (NITEL and M-Tel)*
Terms of Reference for consultant services for modemization of the radio spectrum management function*
Terms of Reference for the Development of a Rural Communications Strategy and Implementation of a
Pilot Project*
Electric Power Sector
Federal Republic of Nigeria - National Electric Power Policy, March, 2001
Terms of Reference of cost-of-service study.
Terms of Reference for the legal and regulatory advisors for the electric power sector.
Terns of Reference for the restructuring and corporatization of advisors for the electric power sector.
Terrns of Reference for the privatization and strategic transaction advisors for the electric power sector.
Terms of Reference for advisors to develop a rural energy strategy.
First Nigeria Power Reforn Leaders' Workshop, Washington D.C., February 26-27, 2001 - minutes and
- 73 -



technical documentation
Second Nigeria Power Reform Leaders' Workshop, Washington D.C., April 3-4, 2001 - conclusions and
technical documentation
Air Transport Sector
Decision relating to the implementation of the Yamoussoukro Declaration Concerning the Liberalization of
Access to Air Transport Markets in Africa.
Lagos Water
Terms of Reference for IFC to act as financial advisor to LASG for the privatization of LSWC
Terms of Reference for consultants to IFC (Technical, Legal, Accounting-Financial, Regulatory)
IFC's interim strategic report ("60-Day Report")
Hard and electronic copies of base case economic and financial assessment model
*Including electronic files
- 74 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                   disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                           IBRD           IDA                            Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Rev'd
P069086         2001 Community Based Poverty Reduction                       0 00      60.00                               0.00       59.49        0.67       0.00
P066571         2000 SECOND PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                        0.00      55.00                               0.00       51.52       18.56       0.00
P065301         2000 ECON.MGMT.CAP.BLDG.                                     0.00      20.00                               0.00       15.44       -0.34       0.00
P064008         2000 SMALL TOWNS WATER                                       0.00       5.00                               0.00        3.93       -0.65       0.00
P002084         1991 WATER REHAB                                          256.00        0.00                               0.00       17.29       17.29      17.29
Total:      256.00       140.00                               0.00      147.68       35.52       17.29
- 75 -



NIGERIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1997               AEF Radmed                     0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Telipoint                  0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Vinfesen                   1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               Abuja Intl                     1.75    0.71    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.71      0.00    0.00
1964/66/89         Arewa Textiles                 0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00
2000               CAPE FUND                      0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.25    0.00    0.00
2000               Diamond Bank                  20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992               FSDH                           0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.86    0.00    0.00
1981/85/88         Ikeja Hotel                    0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25      0.00    0.00
1993               Tourist Co Nir                 0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00      2.50    0.00
1998               AEF Ansbby                     0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996/98            AEF Bailey Bridg               0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Courdeau                   0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ekesons                    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Etema                      0.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.66    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Global Fabri               0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hercules                   1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Hygeia                     0.38    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.19      0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Mid-East                   0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00
1997               AEF Moorhouse                  1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Oha Motors                 0.90    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        29.21     9.63    2.62    0.00    17.89    4.38     2.62    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               AEF Gurmeet                       0.70      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               AEF SafetyCenter                  0.50      0.00      0.08      0.00
1995              AEF-NABEGU CO.                     1.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               Citibank Nigeria                 40.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               FSB                              22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               GTB                              20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000              IBTC                              20.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       104.70      0.00      0.08      0.00
- 76 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NIGERIA: PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-                  -        - .    . ..
Nloeria    Africa   income       Development dlamond
Popuiation. mid-year (miMions)                        123.9       642      2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita tAtMa3 metlhod. USS)                    310        500       410
GNP (Atlas methotl, US$ biflons)                       38.4       321       988
AvertaB annuial rowth. 1993-99
Population M%)                                          2.8        2.6       1,91.9GN
Labor force %)                                          2 8        2.6       2.3       p                              Gross
per    ~             ,          primary
Most recent estimate (iatest year t#vatblo, 1993-99)                                 capita              .        enrollment
Povertyv t of population below natonal goee  line)       s6
Urban opulation (% of total pogul#on)                   43         34        31
tife e xcectartcv at brth (vear5l                        53        50        60
infatt mortality (Per 1,00 lfve btlbs)                   76        92        77
Child malntorition (% of chfldren tinder5)              39         32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source 1% of populationO        39        43        64
lilteracy (% of population age 15+)                     37         39        39
Gross Drimarv enrollment ( of school-ege population)    98         78        95                   Nigeria
Male                                                 109         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                87         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1"99
Economic ratios*
GOP (US$ billions)                           47 3      23.8      32.2       34,1
Gross domestic itnvestmenhlGDP               22.1      17.7      28.3       24,2                     T
Exports of goods and services/GOP            24.8      32.7       33.2      36.5                      rade
Gross domestic savinas/GOP                   27.8      25.3      23.4       18,4
Gross national savings/GDP                   28.4      17.0       18.6      13,0                       T
CurttentaccountbalancelGDP                    3.5      -1.0       -9.7     -11t      Domestic
Interest Payments/GDP                         0.5       6.2       4.6        57                                   I *nvestment
Total debt/GOP                                13.2    126.3       87.9      92.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                     2.2     20.9      37.7       31.1
Present value of debt/GOP                       ..       ..      91.2
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..    261.7
Indebtedness
197949  19S9-99      1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.2      2.7       1.8        1.0       2.5                   Nigeria
GNPpercarita                         -2.7      0.4     -1.9        0,2      .02                    Low-income group
Exporleof goods anr services        -3.6       5.1      4.9      -12.2       4.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP 1%)
(% of GOP)                                                                           30
Aariculture                                   28.7     31.3       39.0               20
Industry                                     37.8      43.2      33.                 10
Manufacturing                                8.8      5.3        5.4
Services                                     33.5      25.5       27.6        .      10      04               99
Private consumption                          58.3      64.3      63.0       66.7    -20
General government consumption                13.9     10.4       13.5      14.9              -GOI    - e  GDP
Imports of moods and services                 19.1     25.2      38.1       42.3
(average annual growth)                   1979-S9  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                    2.2      2.9        1.5              257
Industry                                      -2.7      2.0        2.9         .     0
Manufacturing                                1.1      2.3        2.8 .B 
Services                                      2.3       3.5       0.1         .
Private consumption                           -1.6     -0.81     -3.1        .6                         96   97
General eovernment consumption                -4.6      1.6      24.6         ..    10
Gross domestic investment                    -10.2      5.8       -7.4      17.6    15
Imports of goods and services                -13.2      4.4      -2.8       18.6            -     Exports   -Imports
Gross national product                        0.3       3.4        0.9       3.0
Note: t999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missina, the diamond will
be incomotete.
- 77 -



Nigeria
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998     1999       Inflation (%/)
Domestic prnces
(% change)                                                                            80
Consumer prices                               11.7      50.5       10.3      6.6      60
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.5     44.4       -5.2      12.9      40
Govemment finance                                                                     20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                               20.7      13.8      28.5      30.5    -20      94    95   96   97   98    9
Current budget balance                        12.0      -1.4       13.2     11.1                   GDPdeflator  - O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       -2.5      -7.2     -13.4      -7.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         16,767    9,812     10,114    11,927     20.000
Crude petroleum                           15,655    9,411       9,218    11,393
Liquified natural gas                           .        ..        ..      322      15.s OO
Manufactures                                   ..       39       140        27
Total imports (cif)                         15,971    6,544     10,269    12,176     10000
Food                                        1,638     425       1,397     1,583     5,0   _ _:_                -0       _
Fuel and energy                              442  46   123  158                          U hhk
Capital goods                                   .        ..        .
Exportpnceindex(1995=100)                      117      107         71        94
Import price index (1995=100)                   59       80         94        93                 * Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      198      133         76       101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               11979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               17,631    9,979     10,972    12,871 )5
Imports of goods and services               13,543    7,679     12,934    14,901     10
Resource balance                             4,089    2,301     -1,962    -2,030                          m
Net income                                  -2,026   -2,668     -2,669    -3,445      s                   -
Net current transfers                         -388      118      1,516     1.662      o
Current account balance                      1,675     -249      -3,115    -3,813      5 flU
Financing items (net)                        1,765    1,521      3,000     2,147     -10 t
Changes in net reserves                     -3,440   -1,272        115     1,666     -15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       5,580    1,797      7,107     5,441
Conversion rate (DEC, localIUS$)               0.9       9.4      88.0      95.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         6,245   30,122     28,343    31.617
IBRD                                         478    2,906      2,278     1,989                          A: 1,989
IDA                                           38       30        564      624              G: 6,516  _:624
Total debt service                             392    2,117      4,235     4,082                                   0:2,244
IBRD                                          65      411        466      443
IDA                                            1        1          4         7
Composition of net resource flows                                                              
Official grants                                2      128          0         0
Official creditors                            59      461     -1,763    -1,994        F: 5,829
Private creditors                          1,234      522       -418         0
Foreign direct investment                      ..   2,443      1,351     1,494                                  E 14,415
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  182      702          0         0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 51      450        222       114      B - IDA    D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          21      200        314       307      c - IMF                     G - Short-teml
Net flows                                     31      250        -93      -194
Interest payments                             45      212        156       142
Net transfers                                -15       38       -249      -336
Development Economics
- 78 -



Additional
Annex 11
Annex 11: Project Implementation Framework and Action Plan
This Annex presents key elements and actions, and sector background, for the implementation program for
the Project components related to the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN)'s sector reform and
privatization program, including: (A) general privatization support to BPE; (B) telecommunications sector
reform; and (C) power sector reform. It includes key actions and timelines that were agreed between FGN
and IDA at credit negotiations.
A. General Privatization Support to BPE
The FGN has embarked on a very ambitious and comprehensive privatization program by international
standards. It has made its privatization program a flagship for its strategy for economic growth, improved
public services and infrastructure and employment creation, through expanded private and foreign
investment. To this end, FGN is stressing transparency in order to attract high quality, experienced and
reputable private investors and operator, and to restore Nigeria's image abroad as an investment
destination.
FGN adopted in 1999 guidelines and a blueprint for implementation, pursuant to the 1999 Privatization and
Conmmercialization Act. These provide for a streamlined process by which the NCP sets the broad
parameters of policy and strategy for all divestiture transactions, and in particular for major PE
divestitures, and then delegates detailed preparatory work to sectoral divestiture committees, comprising
stakeholder representatives including concerned sector ministries, subject to oversight of the NCP's four
standing committees, and to NCP clearance of key strategic decisions.
The BPE, as privatization agency, serves as executing agency, and BPE's director-general is a full member
of the NCP. The guidelines explicitly recognize the importance of competitive recruitment of highly
experienced international transactions advisers to undertake detailed technical transaction preparation and
execution work. They also include two modes of divestiture sale: one, for very large strategic PEs, involves
the prior selection of a strategic investor, with sale of shares to Nigerian investors on a broadly distributed
basis across the country which would be done subsequently and staggered over time; the other, for other
PEs, could involve earlier sale through offerings on the stock market of Government shares to Nigerian
investors. Significant emphasis is also given in the guidelines to the importance of stakeholder consultation
and participation as a basis for ensuring the sustainability of the privatization program.
The PSP will support the FGN's overall privatization program through three project components : (1)
Privatization Transactions Support; (2) BPE Institutional Support; and (3) Communications and
Consensus Building. Key design and implementation issues in these areas are presented below.
(1) Privatization Transactions Support
A. FGNPrivatization Program Framework: The FGN is carrying out a three-phase PE privatization
program. Under Phase One, divestiture of 14 PEs -- chiefly through share sales - is virtually completed
with selection of seven (7) core investors and generation of a total gross proceeds to be realized of about 23
billion Naira (16 billion from core investor sales and 7 billion from public offers). Some problems have
been encountered with sale of regional allotments of shares to Nigerian investors, and with regional
community and labor union acceptance of the privatization of certain PEs (e.g. Benue Cement,
- 79 -



Unipetrol ). Under Phases Two and Three, about 100 PEs are slated to be divested - including NEPA,
NITEL, and Nigeria Airways for which preparation is already underway.
B. Steps and Modalities for PE Divestiture: For preparation and execution of the PEs under Phases Two
and Three - except for power, telecoms, air transport, and some others for which advisers have been
recruited - BPE is adopting the following approaches:  (a) "Quick assessments" of the PEs have been
commissioned to provide up-to-date performance, operational, technical and financial information -
especially for large PEs in major sectors, as a basis for scoping out the preparation work required for their
divestiture; (b) For a number of major sectors where PEs are to be divested, sector strategies will be
prepared first, in order to define the key regulatory and policy parameters and sector policy reforms
required before divestiture can proceed; (c) Investment advisers - together with technical, legal and
financial consultants - will be retained for major transactions for which strategic investors will be sought.
For smaller PEs, NCPIBPE would actively consider simpler, faster and less costly divestiture techniques
(e.g. asset sales, liquidations, auctions) to enable assets to be brought back to economic use promptly and
to minimize further deterioration. (d) For all PEs, especially for smaller PE divestitures, "batching" of
transactions (esp. in the same sector) would be considered to ensure a consistent marketing approach and to
minimize costs.
C  FGN's PE Divestiture "Pipeline" : The "pipeline" of PEs slated for divestiture by NCP/BPE
includes a significant number of very large PEs in the productive sectors (e.g. sugar, pulp and paper,
fertilizers, aluminum smelting, steel, vehicle assembly, petrochemicals, oil refineries, gas pipelines, etc.) as
well as in a range of infrastructure and utility sectors (airports, ports, railways, power,
telecommunications, post etc.). The FGN's privatization program is thus a very broad and far-reaching
one that will require time to prepare and implement, especially given the state of current knowledge of the
sectors, and the absorptive capacity of the market.
D. Priorit: List ofPEs for Divestiture : In order to prioritize PEs for divestiture in terms of economic
impact and reduction of fiscal drain, one to three larger PEs have been identified in each of thirteen sectors
and will be considered as "core" - or priority - enterprises for divestiture during 2001-03. These are: (a)
hotels (Nigeria Hotels); (b) insurance (NICON); (c) sugar (Savannah Sugar); (d) fertilizer (NAFCON);
(e) palm oil (three mills/estates); (f) aluminum (ALSCON); (g) oil refinery (Port Harcourt/ Kaduna); (h)
airlines (Nigeria Airways); (i) ports (Lagos); (j) oil/gas pipelines (PPMC); (k) telecommunications
(NITEL); (I) railways (NRC); (m) power (NEPA). In addition, one river basin development authority will
be slated for "commercialization".
E. Organization of the PE Divestiture Effort: To enhance the program's impact during 2001-03, within
the frame of FGN's overall PE privatization effort, BPE will give special attention to the priority PEs and
organize its staff accordingly, by assigning sector divestiture teams on a full-time basis to focus on
managing the divestitures and related sector policy and regulatory reforms in the priority sectors. Each
sector team will : (a) first arrange for conduct of a quick assessment on the selected PE (as needed), (b)
then for a review of the business and sectoral policy environment and regulatory framework to enable the
concemed SRIC to recommend necessary reforms to these to ensure transparency, efficiency and
competition; and (c) thirdly manage selection and supervision of investment advisers in preparation of a
divestiture strategy and implementation of the divestiture.
F. Enabling Policies for Privatization: To ensure a sound policy and social framework for the
privatization program, FGN through NCP/BPE is giving priority in the first year of the project to design
- 80 -



and adoption of key policies, and operational guidelines - notably in the areas of (a) PE employee
severance compensation and retrenchment; (b) PE debt restnucturing guidelines; (c) competition policy;
and (d) capital market absorptive capacity:
*   (a) Compensation and Severance of PE Employees:    To ensure sustainable and equitable
treatment of this key policy issue, FGN has decided to define and adopt early on a consistent
overall policy and operational guidelines for PE employee severance payments, including
adequate pension provisions. Where ex gratia (golden handshake) payments are anticipated to
be needed - as is expected for a number of PEs - these would be based upon uniform principles
related to estimated employee wage losses to ensure equity and to minimize fiscal costs. A
review is currently being undertaken - with assistance of expert consultants funded by USAID
and the Bank - to determine the bases and key elements for the policy as well as operational
guidelines, based upon an empirical assessment of prevailing labor market conditions in
Nigeria. The FGN plans to prepare and have adopted by NCP by end- 2001 the policy
framework and operational guidelines , to ensure a consistent framework for all major PE
divestitures.
* (b) PE Debt Restructuring Guidelines: To accelerate the PE divestiture process, FGN has
identified the need to determine early on a clear policy and operational guidelines for treatment
of PE debts. By setting standard approaches for handling similar classes of PE debts, this will
enable financial restructuring of PEs by transactions' advisers to proceed more rapidly, while
allowing FGN decision-making to focus upon exceptions requiring high-level government
attention. FGN has decided that the PE debt guidelines will be prepared and adopted by NCP
by end 2001.
e  (c) Review of Options for the Legal Framework for Regulatorv and Competition Policy:
Privatization of PEs in certain sectors where competitive pressures from international markets
may initially be limited, will call for creation of an effective framework of competition and
regulatory policies. Already regulatory frameworks are being established for some key sectors
(e.g. telecommunications, power, etc. and are expected to be set up for others (e.g. transport).
To provide a consistent overall economy-wide legal setting for these, and to cover other
sectors, FGN has decided to commission - through BPE - a review of options for the legal
framework for regulatory and competition policy, including private participation in
infrastructures sectors, supported by expert consultants, to draw up options for a competition
and anti-trust policy. This review will be undertaken by end 2001.
* (d) Capital Market Absorptive Capacity Review: A key element of FGN's privatization strategy
is to encourage a rapid growth in shareholding by Nigerian savers and investors throughout the
country, through issuance via public offerings of up to 49 per cent of shares in privatized
companies. With about 100 large PEs slated for divestiture during 2001-05, this would result
in a major expansion of Nigeria's currently quite small stock market, by international
standards. It will be important to conduct early on an empirical assessment of likely capital
market absorptive capacity. FGN has decided to conmmission this review through BPE and that
it would be undertaken by end-September 2001.
(2) BPE Institutional Support
BPE Capacitv Building. Staff Development and Training: BPE has a professional staff of about 100,
seventy-three of whom are newly recruited. Given the scale of the privatization program, especially the
- 81 -



utility sector programs which are very large, and linked to sector and regulatory reform, BPE will need to
strengthen its capacity. The Project will provide support for programs of capacity building and training of
BPE staff, as well as study tours and awareness raising for representatives of other key stakeholder groups.
BPE Capacity Building Action Plan: (a) BPE will hire four long-term international advisors with
privatization experiences in telecommunications, power, transport, and oil and gas sectors from 2001 to
2003, to provide up-to-date, private market knowledge and experience in these key sectors. (b) BPE is
recruiting a "core team" of ten highly qualified Nigerian professionals - to be hired from the private sector
on a contract basis, for the life of the PSP. Of these, four joined BPE in August, 2000 and six more are
under active recruitment and will be on board in 2001. (c) BPE has also recruited an expert team -
comprising international specialists in divestiture transactions, labor and retrenchment issues,
communications and public awareness and MIS to strengthen these functions (with funding support from
USAID). (d) Since seventy-three BPE staff are newly recruited, training will be needed in 2001-02 in the
areas of preparation and execution of complex large divestiture transactions, and design of related
regulatory reforms, as well as more generally in financial, legal, economic and corporate management
aspects. BPE will arrange in-house training in these areas - through contracting out to a qualified and
experienced training organization. In addition, BPE also plans to send selected staff to successful
privatization agencies overseas for short-term (max. 2-3 months) on-the-job training. Meanwhile, BPE's
directors will attend management training courses overseas. (e) To help build up the experienced regulatory
capacity that will be needed for the new power regulatory agency (NERC) starting in 2001, BPE will hire
international regulatory consultants and experts to train a strong cadre of Nigerian regulatory staff (with
funding support from UK-DFID). (f) To build stakeholder support and understanding, a program of study
tours will be undertaken for key stakeholder group representatives (notably parliamentarians, government
officials, labor and other civil society representatives) focused upon specific aspects of the sector reform
and privatization programs where exposure to recent international experiences can prove instrumental - e.g.
design of regulatory institutions and policies, etc. (g) To help strengthen the capacity of Nigeria's judiciary
to address commercial and business law issues related to PE divestiture, NCP/BPE has agreed with the
leadership of the judiciary to undertake a training program for judges and court officials in the areas of
commercial and business law. The programs under (e)-(g) above would be carried out in stages over the life
of the PSP.
Project Implementation Support : The PSP has been structured to provide support to FGN's overall
privatization program, including divestitures and reforms in other sectors. To support BPE effectively in
this, and to build BPE's organizational capacity, while avoiding duplication of services, the project
implementation support will be organized in the form of a team comprising full-time financial management
(program accountant) and procurement support (including recruitment of two procurement specialists).
Pi-ocurement Capacitv: Given its ambitious scope and time frame timely execution of the prioritized PE
divestiture program during 2001-02 will depend critically upon highly competent and effective procurement
of advisory and consulting services by BPE. Moreover, procurement skills are also important for the
management of divestiture transactions and related bidding procedures. To address the need to build up
BPE's procurement capacity quickly, BPE plans to undertake the following actions: (1) recruitment by
end-September 2001 of two procurement specialists in BPE (at least one full-time) to train and backstop
BPE staff, (2) giving priority to training of a critical mass of BPE staff in procurement and transactions
work in first half of 2001, starting with attendance of eight BPE staff at the December 2000 World Bank
procurement seminar in Abuja; (3) use of international procurement specialists on a short-term basis to
assist with bid evaluations for selected major transaction adviser contracts during 2001/2, as a
learning-by-doing support to BPE. (See Annex 6 for further details.)
- 82 -



(3) Communications and Consensus-Building
NTCP/BPE Communications Program: As a key element of its privatization program , FGN has
recognized the need for effective, comprehensive and broad-based communications and public awareness
raising program for all key stakeholder groups - including parliamentarians, government officials, unions,
private sector, and other groups in civil society both nationwide and in different ethno-geographic regions
of the country. This effort will continue through the life of the PSP, with support from FGN, and the Bank,
as well as USAID, UK-DFID and other donor agencies. During 2000, BPE has designed and launched a
major communications campaign to build stakeholder awareness and obtain stakeholder feedback
concerning FGN's PE privatization program. Given the need to understand public concerns and to respond
to these in an area as controversial as privatization and in a society as diverse as Nigeria, this effort is
clearly well justified. NCP/BPE's communications program is focused upon both international as well as
national audiences, and upon building general awareness of Nigeria's privatization program, as well as
upon communications campaigns in relation to specific transactions. The latter will be particularly
important for the major divestiture planned in telecommunications (NITEL), and in power (NEPA), for
which separate campaigns will be started in 2001.
Key Program Components: The main elements of NCP's communications program - to be carried out by
BPE with the assistance of expert international and local consultants and communications firms - are:
(a) international marketing and promotion both for the overall privatization program, as well as for specific
major PE divestiture transactions (aimed at eliciting interest of potential strategic investors); (b) nationwide
and regional publicity and public awareness raising programs through the general media (broadcasting -
TV and radio; and print), as well as focus groups (e.g. as already held for PE employees and union
members), and locally organized publicity and outreach campaigns; (c) nationwide and especially regional
publicity and information campaigns in each of the thirty-six states of the Nigerian federation to elicit
investor and saver interest in purchasing shares in PEs once divestiture to a strategic investor has been
completed; (d) speeches and presentations internationally, nationally and locally by senior FGN officials -
including from the NCP - involved in the implementation of the privatization program. These activities are
being undertaken by intemational and national communications and public relations firms, under the overall
management of BPE's communications and public affairs department. Elements (a) and (c) above involve
procurement of consulting services, media time, as well as printing of prospectuses for specific
transactions.
B. Telecommunications
1.     Market Structure and Sector Performance
The telecommunications sector in Nigeria remains underdeveloped and its potential unexploited. It has one
of the lowest telephone densities in the world, low even by African standards. In addition, access to
telecommunications services in rural areas is almost non-existent. The FGN has estimated current total
demand at around 3 million lines, although only about 100,000 people are currently on the official waiting
list, the rest having been discouraged by the lack of facilities, long waiting time and poor quality of service.
Existing operators, public and private, have failed to meet but a small part of this demand. NITEL, the
incumbent monopoly provider of fixed services, has a small customer base of about 400,000. Its positive
net income reflects high international tariffs not efficient commercial management. The company is
overstaffed and its networks under-maintained. Mobile services are provided, in a limited way, by one
- 83 -



state-owned operator, M-Tel, and a large number of private operators. The viability of these operators is
undernined by their unfavorable interconnection terms with NITEL, lack of access to capital and
management experience, and high tariffs they charge to their customers. Other segments of the market,
notably provision of Internet services and private networks for businesses, paging and public telephony are
also open to private provision, but Temain underdeveloped. The primary reason for this is again the
monopoly power exerted by NITEL, to which the passive attitude of the Government has also contributed
in the past.
2.     Regulatory Environment
The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) was created by Decree No. 75 of 1992 to regulate the
private telecommunications sector. This Decree establishes the Commission as a corporate body with a
ten-member board at its head, which is appointed directly by the President of the nation and can be
removed at any time. However, the NCC had operated since 1994 without a board, under the direct
mandate of its Chairman (the Minister of Telecommunications) and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
placing NCC under the de-facto control by the Federal Ministry of Communications (FMOC). However, a
new Board and CEO were appointed in February 2000 and April 2000 respectively. A prominent person
from the private sector was appointed as the new NCC chairman. While the new Board and management
should derive comfort from the new National Telecommunications Policy (NTP), they may find themselves
constrained by the terms of the existing Decree. Until a new telecommunications law is enacted, the sector
will continue to suffer from an uncertain regulatory environment (see below).
Under the Decree, the responsibilities of the FMOC and the NCC are not sufficiently and clearly separated,
with numerous areas of overlap, notably in licensing and spectrum management (however, the new NTP
does address this issue). Indeed, the frequency spectrum management function is insufficiently equipped,
both in terms of material and human resources, to face the challenges of an increasing prominence of
wireless services, and equally insufficiently equipped is the NCC as a whole to face the challenges of a
deregulated industry.
3.     Government Strategy in the Sector
The Government plans to make the telecommunications sector a significant contributor to Nigeria's
development and economic growth and is engaging in a number of reforms. Specifically, these reforms
include: (i) the development of a stable and predictable policy, legal and regulatory framework; (ii)
strengthening of the regulator and further liberalization of the sector; (iii) the privatization of NITEL and
the establishment of a mechanism to promote private investments in rural and isolated areas of the country.
As a preparatory step for the privatization of NITEL, FGN announced the merger of NITEL and M-Tel
under the name NITEL and has provisionally allocated a digital mobile license to NITEL for US$285
million (the price determined at the auction of the other digital mobile licenses).
In September 2000, the FGN approved a new National Telecommunications Policy (NTP) which delineates
the future direction of the development of the sector in Nigeria. The following is a summary of the main
elements of the policy:
Competition. The policy aims at opening the sector for competition in all segments of the market.
Accordingly, the NCC shall be authorized pursuant to the telecommunications law to issue operating
licenses to all telecommunications service-providers to participate in all market segments. In order to
achieve this goal of market-based competition in the sector, all operators will have mandatory access to
technically adequate and economically efficient interconnection with all other operators on a
- 84 -



non-discriminatory and cost-oriented basis.
Regulation. The NCC shall be the independent regulator of the telecommunications industry. It shall be
empowered to issue licenses, promote and enforce fair competition, regulate tariffs, assign frequencies,
protect the interests of consumers, and regulate all telecommunications licensees and service providers. To
address the existing weakness in managing the frequency spectrum and the overlap in the responsibilities
involved, the FGN plans to establish the National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) to plan and
coordinate this function. The NCC will be responsible for assigning and registering frequencies for
telecommunications service providers.
Privatization. In accordance with the principle that private market forces will dictate the development of
the Nigerian telecommunications sector to the greatest extent possible, controlling ownership interest in
NITEL shall be transferred from Government to strategic private partners and the company shall be
restructured to implement modem operational and management practices. NCC will issue new licenses to
the operator, designating roles and responsibilities in the market. The privatization and restructuring
processes shall be given highest priority, but shall not postpone or preclude other steps to open the
telecommunications market to further private investment and competitive operators.
Universal access. The Government plans to develop and incorporate universal access terms in the planned
legislation and regulation and in the new licenses that will be issued. The Government is determined to
focus its role on taking cost-effective measures to remove obstacles that hamper the well-functioning of the
market. The NCC will establish an explicit process for defining universal access policy options and
programs, with participation by industry, community representatives, and other interested parties.
Internet development. Other Government objectives are to ensure that the Internet develops rapidly and
that inhabitants of rural and poor communities have adequate access to communications services. The
initial steps will be to develop a strategy for rapidly improved Intemet access, information infrastructure
and postal development. The Government plans to take several initiatives that will help ensure that rural as
well as urban areas benefit from reform, and help provide a strategy for further development of access to
communications services.
4.     Planned Activities and Phasing of Programs
The FGN has launched an effort to implement the policy elements summarized in the previous section. The
program includes: (i) developing a legal and regulatory framework for the sector; (ii) privatizing NITEL;
(iii) Strengthening the institutional capacity of the NCC; (iv) modemizing the frequency management
system; and (v) developing a rural access strategy and implementing demonstration rural access projects .
The following chart indicates the proposed phasing of activities involved and sets key milestones to achieve
the goals of reform. While some activities have already taken place and others are on-going, the planned
activities depicted are key to ensuring that the reform process is successful.
- 85 -



Schedule of the Reform Program in the Telecommunications Sector
Q3-2000       Q4-2000         Q1-2001     0 Q2-2001        Q3-2001        Q4-200 1     1-2002       Q2-2002
Jul lAugiSeplOct |Nov Dec Jan |Feb|Mar Apr IMay|Jun Jul |Aug|Sep Oct INovIDec Jan Feb|Mar Apr May|Jun
Nathonal Telecommunications Policy published by FGN                            1 S                                           -    -   -    --   -
Draft telecom law approved by Executive Council
_ _ w u   __E__ ,_,,,..__l.                                                                                 *EE__E__.__.,,,___,
NCC to issue new licenses to NITEL and M-Tel
NCC  to award digital cellular licenses
NITEL offered for sale                                              31-Dec-01
NCbadto approve new organization and development plan ______________-__v
Cmecment of institutional development and training pro,qrammes_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                            _ _   
Completion of Strategy Study                                              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                          _ 
Completion and approval of National Frequency Plan ll___________-tl--    
Award contract for new RadioSpectrum Management3Sysunm
Aprove Rural Communications Strategy ||_______s
Announce Tender for Pilot Projedct                                                                    _      t     I I I I l              I            
Award Contract for Pilot Project(s)                                 31-May-02
Dated Covenants
Draft telecom law approved by Executive Council                     30-Sep-01
NITEL offered for sale                                              31-Dec-01
Award contract for new RSM system                                   30-Jun-02
Award Contract for Rural Pilot Project                              31-May-02
-86-



C. Electric Power Sector
Electric Power Industry Structure and Performance
The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) was created in 1972 as the public enterprise responsible
for the power sector in Nigeria and for introducing the integrated national power supply system. NEPA
undertakes five integrated but mutually exclusive functions: generation, transmission, distribution and
supply of electricity to electricity consumers and, since 1990, rural electrification.
NEPA's installed power generation capacity totals 5,888 MW, of which 3,950 MW (67 per cent) is
thermal power plant and 1,938 MW (33 per cent) hydropower plant. This capacity is located in five
thermal and three hydro- power stations. NEPA's installed supply capacity is the second largest in
Sub-Saharan Africa (after that of ESKOM of the Republic of South Africa). Thus if all NEPA's installed
generating capacity were in operation, NEPA would have sufficient capacity to serve nearly all of the
demand for power on its system, which is estimated to be presently over 5,000 MW. However, much of
this capacity is non-operational or operates at sub-optimal levels because of poor operational practice and
maintenance. In particular, the power system suffers from low generating plant availability, high outages
on the transmission and distribution network, high energy losses from generation to billings, a low rate of
access to electricity by the populace, and inadequate electricity tariffs. Consequently more than 90 percent
of industrial establishments and huge numbers of commercial and residential establishments have installed
and run their own power generators which produce electricity at high cost to themselves and to the Nigerian
economy.
In the absence of investment and lack of maintenance in network capacity since the late 1980s, NEPA's
transmission and distribution networks are also in poor condition and overloaded. NEPA' s transmission
network consists of around 11,000 km of transmission lines (operating at 330kV and 132kV), 24,000 km
of sub-transmission lines (operating at 33kV), about 19,000 km of distribution lines (operating at 1 lkV),
and about 22,500 substations. Even with these impressive statistics, the network does not reach many state
capitals and numerous large towns, especially in the northem and south-eastern parts of the country, with
163 of the 589 local government headquarters not connected to the national grid. To date, according to
NEPA, about 3,685 towns and villages are connected to the national grid, 80 percent of which are in rural
areas. The transmission network is poorly configured for reliability, since lines follow a radial pattern with
few loops and parallel routes to improve the reliability of supply to load centers. The 132 kV transmission
lines extend over distances that are too long to support their loadings reliably.
NEPA incurs high losses on its system due to the under-investment and poor maintenance noted above, and
also due to electricity consumed from illegal connections and from under-billing (because of broken or
tampered meters, fraud by consumers and meter readers, as well as NEPA's inability to bill regularly).
The facilities at the National Control Center (NaCC) for the power system have fallen into disrepair due to
lack of maintenance. Its SCADA communication system has never worked properly, allegedly because of
-the poor condition of NITEL's network. In addition, transmission meters are old and poorly calibrated.
Hence NaCC has little reliable information on which to manage load flows in the power system.
NEPA currently has about 32,700 people on its payroll, whereas more efficiently run power utilities with
facilities of comparable magnitude to NEPA's employ fewer than 20,000 people.
Despite NEPA's legally-endowed monopoly, a substantial number of small independent power supply
systems have been developed around Nigeria independently of NEPA because of the latter's failure to
extend service to large parts of the country. Many households beyond the reach of NEPA's network have
their own individual generators. Reliable statistics on the numbers of electricity consumers who are not
supplied by NEPA are not available, but it is estimated that they may account for 10 per cent to 15 per cent
- 87 -



of the population, in which case between 25 per cent and 30 per cent of the population have access to
electricity. Most industrial and commercial establishments in Nigeria have their own power generators to
supply all their power needs or as stand-by capacity to NEPA's supply. The total installed capacity of
diesel and gasoline-fueled autogenerators amounts to at least about 2,100 MW. This situation is estimated
to increase the energy costs of Nigerian manufacturers by up to 30 per cent.
Regulatory Environment
NEPA was established as a statutory authority through Decree Number 24 of 1972. Its operations fall
under the general surveillance of the Federal Ministry for Power and Steel. Presently there is no
independent regulatory agency that monitors the power sector. Following the then government's removal of
the boards of directors of parastatals in the mid-i 990s, NEPA's management has reported directly to the
Federal Ministry of Power and Steel. The Ministry has the conflicting roles of sector policy maker, sector
regulator and owner's representative for the main power supplier to that market.
Government imposed on NEPA civil service bureaucratic practices, including control of salaries and wages
at levels well below competitive market rates, as well as political objectives and patronage on labor hiring
and construction of new facilities. Many of NEPA' s skilled workers have left to operate privately owned
diesel plants or to work in the oil sector where wages are 500 percent higher than they received at NEPA.
FGN has refused to allow NEPA to increase its tariffs to offset increases in costs and to meet financial
objectives, and it has withheld funds that it approved for maintenance. NEPA is blamed by the public,
Government, and industry for its poor performance, but its problems are also caused by lack of autonomy
and excessive govemment interference, particularly in the areas of procurement, finance, tariffs and
personnel.
Following increases in power outages over the previous months and culminating in two system-wide
collapses of NEPA's supply in March. 2000, the President of the Federation personally intervened to stem
the mounting political crisis by announcing on March 14, 2000 the removal of the two top layers of
NEPA's management (the Managing Director and the Executive Directors) and the appointment of a
nine-member Technical Board which reports directly to him. The President gave the Board the following
functions:
Assume executive powers with immediate effect over the affairs of NEPA and for the
implementation of the emergency directive to rescue the dire situation.
Kick-start the countdown to the deadline for regular and dependable power to the nation.
Put NEPA into a suitable shape and condition for privatization, as stated in Government's
broader economic policy.
FGN's Emergency Action Plan for the Sector
FGN has outlined a five-part emergency plan to avoid further collapses of the power system and to reduce
the severe power shortages. This strategy consists of the following components: (i) rehabilitation of a
substantial part of NEPA's production and delivery capacity; (ii) concessioning the operation of some
power stations to private operators under Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer (ROT) type schemes; (iii) an
Emergency Power Project (EPP) of short-term contracts with private power producers to provide additional
power under Build-Own-Operate (BOO) arrangements; (iv) long-term contracts to purchase power from
projects developed under Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) arrangements by independent power
producers (IPPs); and (iv) connection to NEPA's network of generating units located at industrial plants
and presently under-used or not operational. Government has requested the World Bank to provide
- 88 -



technical assistance and partial risk guarantees and IFC funding for the ROT and EPP components, and to
help fund the strengthening of NEPA's transmission and network control systems.
The first component of this strategy and an up-to-date estimate of the financing requirements for
rehabilitation is given in NEPA's "Action Plan (Uninterrupted Power Supply by December 2001)" that was
presented in late April 2000 to the President by NEPA's Technical Board. The Plan aims to enable NEPA
to provide uninterrupted power supply by the end of 2001, by having at least 4,000MW of generating
capacity in operation mainly through rehabilitation of 1,000 MW of generation capacity that is presently
out of service by the end of 2000 and a further 1000 MW by the end of 2001. The plan also includes
rehabilitation of transmission and distribution networks to improve the reliability of these networks, and the
installation of one million pre-payment meters to improve collection of payments from power consumers.
NEPA estimates the financing requirement for the plan to be about Naira 30 billion to the end of 2000 and
an additional Naira 26 billion to the end of 2001 (about US$550 million in total).
The ROT concessionnaires will help improve power supply by bringing on-line generating units that have
been off-line for some time through lack of maintenance, and by operating units at higher utilization rates
than achieved by NEPA through better operating and maintenance practices. NEPA have retained
engineering and legal advisors to prepare the documentation for soliciting requests for proposals from
private power plant operators to put the Afam and Sapele thermal power stations out to the first ROT
concessions, possibly with the availability of a World Bank partial risk guarantee. 'The terrns of these
concessions will be designed to avoid complications for the restructuring and privatization of NEPA's
facilities. Once the process for these stations is well advanced, NEPA will start a similar process for other
power stations. NEPA may require credit support from Government to enter into power purchase
obligations under the terrms of the ROT concessions.
The EPP consists of buying power under short-term contracts from private power producers who would
install generating capacity quickly for this purpose. Following President Obasanjo's request, the Bank
assisted FGN to retain international consultants (funded from the PPF for the PSP) to help prepare a
competitive bidding process for an EPP of about 450 MW. The EPP generating units would be located in
the southem thernal power stations (Egbin, Afam, Sapele) for ease of connection to NEPA's transmission
network and Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation's gas pipelines. Electricity offered by EPP
contractors could cost around US 4 to 5 cents/kWh, depending on the duration of the power sales
agreement (three to five years) and the cost of gas supplied to the units, which is higher than NEPA's
average sales revenue. Government may also have to provide credit support to NEPA for entering into the
EPP contracts. Government advertised a request for Expressions of Interest (EOI) from contractors to bid
for the EPP contracts, and received an excellent response. The Request-for-Proposals documentation has
been drafted by consultants and reviewed by the EPP task force set up under the NPC.
Many IPPs have approached Government and NEPA during 1999 and 2000 with unsolicited proposals to
develop power generation plants under project financing arrangements with long-term (15 years and longer)
power sales agreements, and MOUs have been signed for some of them. Most of these IPPs propose
gas-fired combined cycle plants. This shows that IPPs view Nigeria as a significant potential market,
although major issues conceming credit structure and long-term power off-take arrangements in particular,
have to be resolved. Hence a power sales agreement (PSA) has been signed for only one of these
proposals, which happened on December 6, 1999 between the Lagos State Government , NEPA and Enron
Nigeria Power Holding Ltd. for the installation and operation of electricity generation facilities inn the
Lagos area, with the FGN as guarantor. The project will provide 270 MW of emergency power from
barge-mounted generators to improve power supply to the Lagos area. The public controversy that
surrounded the Enron Lagos project after signature of the PSA, led to renegotiation of some of the terms
and a new agreement being signed in July, 2000.
- 89 -



In addition, FGN is focusing on short term ways to improve the collection of revenues from NEPA's
customers. NEPA's Action Plan thus includes provision for installing one million pre-payment meters by
end-200 1. Government has also anmounced its intention to prosecute more forcibly than previously any
NEPA staff or power users that defraud NEPA. The more sustainable solution of putting out customer
services to private licensees or contractors under concessions is mentioned as a long-term option in NEPA's
Action Plan. Hence NEPA is planning to undertake during 2001 a pilot project for concessioning billing
and collection to assess the feasibility of using this approach.
FGN's Policy for Reforming the Power Sector
FGN is preparing a major and far-reaching reform and restructuring of Nigeria's electric power sector that
includes early opening of the sector to private participation. FGN's policy for reforming the power sector is
enunciated in a formal policy statement entitled "National Electricity Policy" that was approved in March
2001 by the Federal Executive Council. This policy statement sets out the new institutional arrangements
for introducing competition and an appropriate regulatory framework to the power sector. Under this
policy, Government will focus on providing overall direction for the development of the power sector,
ensure the general consistency of electric power policy with other national policies, and enact promptly the
necessary laws, regulations and other measures required to support its policies. The Federal Ministry of
Power and Steel will propose policy options to FGN concerning legislation, policy on investments, etc.,
monitor and evaluate the implementation and performance of government policy, and establish and monitor
policies for increasing access to electricity, particularly in rural and semi-rural areas. State governments
will have responsibilities for the development of off-grid electrification.
The new policy lays the basis for creating an industry structure that will develop competition by
establishing a number of privately-owned or concessioned generation companies that will eventually
compete for the custom of distribution companies and large users of electricity. This structure would be
achieved by the following means: (i) unbundling NEPA's vertically integrated structure into several
generation and distribution entities and a transmission entity that would also act as the national electricity
dispatch entity/system operator, (ii) divestiture of the state's ownership in the generation and distribution
facilities, (iii) allowing private independent power producers (IPPs) and electricity suppliers to enter the
power market, and (iv) establishment of arm's-length trading mechanisms among these entities.
Competition in the wholesale power market would be developed in stages once the industry is restructured.
In the first stage, competition would be limited to competitive bidding to take over some of NEPA's thermal
power stations under medium term Rehabilitate-Operate -Transfer (ROT) concession agreements with
NEPA initially that would be re-assigned to a special purpose entity (SPE) to be set up after the enactment
of the necessary legislation in order to facilitate the unbundling of NEPA's functions. This stage would
also cover the competitive procurement of long-term power supply from up to 1500MW of new generating
plants developed by lPPs with the benefit, as needed, of FGN's credit support. In the second stage, once
the new entities formed from the restructuring of NEPA are set up and largely privatized, and the new
sector regulatory agency and regulations are in place, competition would evolve into rights to enter into
bilateral contracts between generation and distribution companies, so that each distribution company would
have a portfolio of power purchase contracts with various generators, and each generator would have a
portfolio of power sales contracts. The first group of these bilateral contracts would probably originate
from the SPE by spinning off its power purchase obligations under agreements with ROT concessionnaires
and IPPs to the new distribution companies.
-90 -



The power market would evolve further over time by allowing competition to develop in the retail power
market as well as more deeply in the wholesale power market, as sufficient new generation capacity is
brought on stream to cover demand fully, the transmission and dispatch systems are modernized, and
distribution company commercial performance is established and improved. Competition in the market
would be developed over the long-term by (i) allowing large users of electricity to purchase directly from
generators or electricity suppliers, (ii) removing retail sales monopolies from the franchises of distribution
companies, (iii) separating the retail sales business of distribution companies from the low voltage
distribution business with limits on cross-ownership; (iv) deepening the wholesale market by means of a
power pool that has formal membership rules and procedures, (v) ultimately allowing competition to reach
extensively into the retail power market with open access for suppliers to the low voltage distribution
network.
The new policy provides for the establishment of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC)
as an agency independent of both the government and of all companies operating in the sector. NERC
would regulate the power sector with powers, duties and a constitution laid down in a new Electricity Act,
and would issue licenses to companies operating in the Nigerian power market. Through these licenses,
NERC would be responsible for (i) decisions on regulatory approval for electricity tariffs, (ii) business and
capacity expansion plans for generation, transmission and distribution, (iii) enforcement of competition
over the transmission network including regulation of transmission connections, transmission access rights
and fair cost reflective use-of-system prices, (iv) enforcement of competition over electricity generation,
distribution and sales, (v) ensuring that major investments for expanding generation capacity are carried
out by competitive tender, (vi) setting and enforcing national quality standards, and (vii) enforcing the legal
rights of consumers. NERC's activities would be funded from sources independent of FGN's budget such
as license fees and charges for its services to the industry.
The detailed design of the new power regulatory body would be based upon a review of institutional
options, based upon recent international experiences.
Preparations for NEPA's restructuring and ultimate divestiture are being accompanied by a major effort to
ensure improved basic availability and reliability of power supplies in 2001-02, through NEPA's action
plan to rehabilitate its existing supply facilities, through contracting out management of NEPA generation
plants to private operators on a rehabilitate-operate-transfer (ROT) basis, through competitive selection of
new private independent power producers (IPPs), and an emergency power program (EPP). This is
because of the fragile state of NEPA's power network, which has suffered total system collapses for
several days as a result of the long backlog of insufficient maintenance, and of under-investment,
inadequate management, weak finances and inadequate and non-transparent organization and practices.
FGN thus has to address the following four short-term priorities to have a reasonable prospect of
successfully moving power generation, distribution and supply into private control in accordance with its
new policy for the power sector: (i) fulfill a commitment to significantly reduce power shortages in
2001-02, (ii) manage the process of private entry into power generation without jeopardizing sector
viability or unduly increasing the costs of power supply, (iii) attract reputable investors to the Nigerian
power sector, and (iv) restructure NEPA's functions in preparation for privatization and the development
of a competitive trading environment for power.
These priorities will be addressed under a short-term plan for the power sector that is under preparation by
FGN. This plan consists of the following main elements: (i) provide strong, unified leadership for the power
reform program, (ii) initially place the generating units in two of NEPA's thermal power stations (Afam
and Sapele) under private control through ROT-type concessions by mid-2002, followed by placing the
generating units at Delta power station and possibly Egbin power station under ROT-type concessions by
- 91 -



end-2002, (iii) implement a substantial interim tariff increase to start the process of moving tariffs to cover
costs fully, and put in place an automatic tariff adjustment plan that accounts for changes in the exchange
rate, inflation and fuel prices, (iv) contract out to private agencies the billing and collection of payments for
some of NEPA's customers, (v) limit the amount of long-term power purchase commitments with IPPs to
agreements for which the payment commitments are fundable from net revenues and, if needed, direct
budgetary support, and ensure that the terms for credit support and other provisions are not detrimental to
the unbundling and privatization of NEPA's power supply and distribution business, (vi) establish a special
purpose entity to take over NEPA's obligations to purchase power from private producers, with adequate
financial support for this purpose, and (vii) undertake a program to eliminate vandalism to major power
supply facilities and substantially reduce vandalism to other power supply facilities.
The policy also provides the basis for developing a strategy for expanding access to electricity by the
populace in rural and peri-urban areas.
In 1999, FGN created a sector reform implementation committee - the Electric Power Reform
Implementation Committee (EPIC) - specifically to spearhead and coordinate the planned reforms in the
power sector. EPIC is chaired by the Minister of Power and Steel, its secretariat is provided by BPE, and it
comprises government, private sector and other stakeholder representatives involved with the power sector.
Key elements of the power reform have been delegated to seven sub-committees dealing with the following
subjects, which report to EPIC: legal and regulatory, electricity market and design, regulatory
agency, technical and environmental, corporatization, policy interface, and community outreach. EPIC was
responsible for preparation and consensus building for the new National Electricity Policy adopted by FGN
in March 2001. EPIC is expected to act as the focal point bringing together key stakeholders to implement
the short term power program for 2001-02. To this end, and given the magnitude and importance of the
power reform agenda, a full-time power team will be set up to support EPIC - comprising four to five
Nigerian professionals with private sector and prior power sector experience - recruited on a contract basis
- as well as an international power specialist and short-term consultants to handle specific specialist
aspects. This team will be recruited quickly in mid-2001 for a period of 1-2 years initially.
-92 -



Milestones of Reform for the Electric Power Sector
1420002       01-2001     02-2001        03-2001  042001      Q1-2002  Q2-2002    Q3-2002      04-2002    Q1-2003
Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Ma Jun Jul Au Sep Oct Nov Dec Ja feMar Apr Ma Jur Jul  Au Sep          No, Dec  Jan Fel Mar
Power Policy Statement Approved                      _          _   _               _ ____ 
Establish Project Advisory and Monitoring Team             1                                                               _                          T         _ 11
Prepare rural electrification strategy
LeD l-s dru an eerativ-ns-orsn startwork                                  II I I  I                            I   I   I I     I   I                              II
PresentElectricityLawforreviewbyNationalAssembly                                - |               - |   |   |   r T  I |                                               -
Electricity Law passed and enacted                                                                                                    |
Interim tariff increase implemented
Second tarff increase
National Electricity Regulatory Agency established  |                                                                                                      - |
Distribution andgenerationlicenses approved
Start contracting NEPAs billing/collection to private management                                                      l                             I
Restructuring & corporatisation advisors start work  |           |                                                       i    I       I|
UnbundlingofNEPAcompleted                                -  - I -                              - -  -  -                             - -  - -    -              - - -  e 2003
First stage upgrade of transco communicabtons complete                                                                                                                      end2003
New power trading arrangements go 'live'                  -      I                                               Z   I    f   I g          .  .   
Sustainable nnancial package approved by )-UN                                                                                                 1
Special purpose entity established
Two NEPA power stations under ROT concessions                                           -      -  -   -    -                  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -   - 1      - 1
Two more NEPA powerstations under ROT concessions I   |                                          - |   I   I   I  I                    - I     - T     -          -       I
Privatization and transaction advisors start work                                       -      -  -   -                       -   -  -  -   -  -   -  - I          -  -
Privatzation strategy approved
SaleoflstgroupofdistributionJSCscompleted                                   - I   I   i   I   I   I   I              - -      - 1   1   1   1   - 1 1 ' I          -  -
Sale of 2nd group of distribution JSCs completed   |-- |   |   |                                         -      |    -       I |   | |  - |   |   |   | |              -   end-2004
-93-






14   .        4                                     c.~~~~~~6                            8                                   10-                                    I2'                                   14'                                   lo                     141
}   ' /   N  ;>t                             N    I   G    E    R                                                                          S          3 a C H A D   This mop wcs produced by the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hismapwasprouce 6yth
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                            7                                                                                                                                           ma Xp do not Jimply,-?R on the p ar</t of-+ IVR
3,   JX  ObomosoX  >W              9                 XNusurowo jLafia                        >t  .t l   g ~~yob~e.;                                                              ir-hXRSWY
[  l l      ma                            o                  ,/j                                                                                    1          +              J        \    ,           -    g X    C H;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h lglstts fan  erior,o
4  . 0 5 100B1rni,200                                                                                                                                                                         25ndor.sem,.                                                     t -o.r acJCEpTRAncLo
m~~~~~~~K                    ,i                                                                                                         G                                                                u                                             Ibso fGundai nea KIOERS . -,  AEON< i
v                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TI  fGflaE                                                      v
o                        46,Q                                                                                                                 o                                     1                                             $PtgNCg                   10OGAoNg)irNo 
o~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



