                                                DOCUMENT      OF
                                             The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                               Report No. 32425-NG




                      INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION

                              PROPOSEDPROJECTRESTRUCTURING

              AND AMENDMENT OFTHE CREDIT AGREEMENTS FORTHE

                     PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT(Cr. 3520-UNI)

                                                     AND

      COMMUNITY BASEDURBANDEVELOPMENT PROJECT(Cr. 3654-UNI)

INTHE CONTEXT OFTHE PORTFOLIORESTRUCTURINGAND INALIGNMENT

                       WITH THE COUNTRYPARTNERSHIPSTRATEGY

                                                     FOR

                             THEFEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA




                                                 June2,2005




Country Department 12
Africa Region




   This document has a restricteddistribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorldBank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                                   NigerianNaira (N)
                 US$1.oo
                 Currency Unit
                                                   137Ns
                 1Naira                            0.0073US$

                               FISCALYEAR
                           January 1-December 3 1

                              ABBREVIATIONS
BPE                        Bureau o f Public Enterprises
CBPRP                      Community BasedPoverty Reduction Project
CBUDP                      Community BasedUrbanDevelopment Project
CDD                        Community DrivenDevelopment
CFP                        Country FinancingParameters
CPS                        Country Partnership Strategy
CREST                      Commercial Reorientationo f the Electricity Sector Toollut
DBU                        DistributionBusiness Units
D C A                      Development Credit Agreement
DO                         Development Objective
FCT                        Federal Capital Territory
FGN                        Federal Government o fNigeria
FMHUD                      FederalMinistryo f Housingand UrbanDevelopment
FPCU                       Federal Project Coordination Unit
IDA                        International Development Association
IP                         Implementation Progress
IPP                        IndependentPower Producers
LAMATA                     Lagos MetropolitanArea Transport Authority
LASTMA                     Lagos State Traffic Management Authority
LEEMP                      Local Empowerment and Environmental ManagementProject
LG                         Local Governments
LSWC                       Lagos State Water Corporation
LUTP                       Lagos UrbanTransport Project
M-Tel                      NigerianMobile Telecommunications Limited
NCB                        National Competitive Bidding
NCC                        National Communications Commission
NEEDS                      NationalEconomic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NEPA                       NationalElectric Power Authority
NITEL                      NigerianTelecommunication Limited
NPC                        NationalPlanning Commission
PE                         Public Enterprises
PSC                        Project Steering Committee
PSP                        Privatization Support Project
SEEDS                      State Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
SPT                        State Program Teams
UBE                        Universal Basic Education


Vice President:                        Gobind Nankani
Country Director:                      Hafez Ghanem
Task Team Leader:                      Irene Xenakis

                                   TABLEOFCONTENTS




I. INTRODUCTION                                                           1
11.   BACKGROUNDAND COUNTRY CONTEXT                                      1
111.  NIGERIA'S PORTFOLIO                                                2
IV.   SUMMARY OF PROPOSEDPROJECTAMENDMENTS                               4
V.    PROPOSEDPROJECT RESTRUCTURINGSEEKINGBOARDAPPROVAL                   5
      A.     PrivatizationSupport Project                                 5
      B.     Community BasedUrbanDevelopment Project                     7
VI.   SUMMARY OFRESTRUCTUREDPROJECTSAPPROVED BY REGION                   9
      A.     Universal Basic Education Project                            9
      B.     HN/AIDS ProgramDevelopment Project                          11
      C.     Transmission Development Project                            12
      D.     SecondHealthSystems Development Project                     13
      E.     Lagos UrbanTransport Project                                15
      F.     Community BasedPovertyReductionProject                      17




ANNEXES
Annex 1: PrivatizationSupport Project Recommended Amendments
Annex 2: Community BasedUrbanDevelopment Project Recommended Amendments


                          INTERNATIONAL     DEVELOPMENT    ASSOCIATION
         ProposedProjectRestructuringandAmendmentto the CreditAgreements
                      for the PrivatizationSupport Project(Cr. 3520-UNI)
              and CommunityBasedUrbanDevelopmentProject(Cr. 3654-UNI)
             inthe Context of PortfolioRestructuringand in Alignment with the
              CountryPartnershipStrategyfor the Federal Republicof Nigeria

                                      I. INTRODUCTION

 1.     This memorandum seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to amend the
Development Credit Agreements (DCA) for the following projects: Privatization Support (Cr.
3520-UNI) and Community Based Urban Development (Cr.3654-UNI).                  Amendments to six
other projects (see Table 1) have also been approved by the Region, per OP13.05.             These
amendments, and the on-going harmonization o f projects that use the Community Driven
Development (CDD) approach, constitute a major restructuring o f the Nigeria portfolio. The
main purpose o f the portfolio restructuring i s to improve the performance o f problem projects
and other priority operations in alignment with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
Nigeria and the National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy (NEEDS) -
Nigeria's strategy for growth and poverty reduction. The CPS proposes specific activities to
support the Federal Government and selected well-performing states (lead states), and targeted
MDG-related action elsewhere. A results framework has been prepared to support the program
towards three strategic objectives (improved service delivery for human development, improved
environment and services for non-oil growth and enhanced transparency and accountability for
better governance) and to reflect donor coordinationinthe country.

2.      The World Bank (Bank) lending portfolio in Nigeria is relatively young, includes
significant IDA commitments available to support the attainment o f the CPS results, and has the
potential to do so effectively. At the outset of the CPS implementation, it i s imperativeto ensure
that the existing projects are well positioned, have made necessary adjustments inthe context o f
the CPS, and have resolved implementationissues and constraints.

                         rr.    BACKGROUND COUNTRY CONTEXT
                                                 AND

3.      President Obasanjo was elected to a second term inApril 2003 further consolidatingthe
transition from militaryto democratic rule that beganin 1999. A new reform oriented economic
team was appointed by President Obasanjo in June 2003 who are implementingpolicies to: (i)
strengthen governance and fight corruption; (ii)grow the private sector; and (iii)empower
people and improve social service delivery. Over the past two years, Nigeria has made good
progress in implementing key elements o f the reform program particularly in macroeconomic
management and the fight against corruption. The next two years leading up to the national
elections scheduled for 2007 provide an unprecedented opportunity for Nigeria's development.

4.      The CPS has been prepared to assist Nigeria in the implementation of the NEEDS
program (and at the state level, SEEDS) to boost growth and to help achieve the MDGs. The
CPS will be implemented over the period FY06-09, and one o f its key objectives will be to
support the reform efforts and help ensure that they are sustainable over the mediumterm. The
CPS i s based on the four principles of: (i)realism about opportunities and scope for change; (ii)
responsiveness and Government ownership; (iii)selectivity for impact; and (iv) balancing a



                                                  1

longer-term transformational agenda with the need for more direct, shorter-term impacts. The
early results o f the CPS are likely to be achieved mainly through the existing portfolio.


                                         111.     NIGERIA'S       PORTFOLIO

5.        Notwithstanding the challenges, the young Nigeria portfolio presents opportunities.
The Nigeria portfolio consists o f sixteen projects with a total net IDA commitment o f about
US$1.48 billion. Of this amount, about US$258 million has been disbursed as o f May 3, 2005
(of which more than half inFY05) and about US$1.40 billion i s undisbursed. The average age
o f the Nigeria portfolio i s 2.6 years. The disbursement ratio in FY04 increased to about 13 %
from about 3.5 % inFY03 and i s estimated to be about 15% inFY05. Fiduciary compliance in
FY04 was 100%.            About 31 percent o f the net commitments are in the social sectors, 37%
percent in infrastructure (including mining), 11 percent in the rural sector, 11 percent in
economic policy, and 10percent inprivate sector development. About 42% o f the commitments
are at-risk1 including six actual problem projects (Universal Basic Education, HIV/AIDS,
Second Health Systems Development, Local Empowerment and Environmental Management
(LEEMP), Community Based Urban Development, and Lagos Urban Transport) and one
potential problem project (the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Project) with three risk
flags o f which two flags are country related (Country Environment and Record) and one i s for
late effectiveness.       This portfolio restructuring includes all actual problem projects except for
the LEEMPwhich is beingrestructured under the harmonization o fthe CDD projects.

6.       Key factors that significantly affect the portfolio performance include: the country's
FederaVmulti-State structure, status o f institutionalcapacity and systems, the size o f the country,
and socio-economic disparities.              Among the issues that have hampered Nigeria's project
implementation since re-engagement with the country in 1999, the most frequently cited
implementation impediments include: (i)complex project design, project management, and
implementationprocedures; (ii)          effectiveness delays due to insufficient implementation readiness
andunderestimated implementationcapacity; (iii)                  inadequateAate counterpart funding; (iv) weak
results management due to often inadequate monitoring and evaluation systems and capacity;
(vi) political interference, incentives issues, and rigidities in applying performance-based
principles (including implications for less well performing states). Several projects seem to
overlap (e.g.. in states, similar activities, approach-CDD) and, thus, provide opportunities for
harmonization, consolidation, more efficient implementation, and lower transaction costs.

7.       The improvement of the Nigeria portfolio performance evidenced by visible results
i s a top priority of both the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) and the Bank. To this


           ARPP FY04Portfolio Definitions:
         Commitments ut risk: Commitments at risko f not meeting their development objectives. Includes
commitments associated with both actual and potentialproblem projects.
          Actual Problem Projects Projects for wluch ImplementationProgress is rated unsatisfactory and/or the
Development Objectives are rated as not likely to be achieved.
         Potential Problem Projects: Projects which are rated satisfactory on IP and DObut have other risk factors
historically associated withunsatisfactory outcomes. Specifically, potential problemprojects are identified as
projects exhibiting three or more o fthe projects at risk "flags".




                                                             2

end, they have: undertaken rigorous joint analysis and monitoring; conducted two portfolio
reviews in June and December 2004; set strategic priorities for the sustained portfolio
performance improvement; and are following on the implementation o f agreed time-bound
actions. Key among these actions are the portfolio restructuring, harmonization o f the CDD
projects, and resolution o f systemic issues through the following immediate steps:        (i)new
operations will strive for design simplification and flexibility and implementation readiness (a
readiness guide i s now usedduring preparation to ensure that the project i s reasonably ready for
implementation and to reduce effectiveness delays); (ii)      country financing parameters (CFP)
have been approved to help harmonize and rationalize the financing o f the totality o f the country
program, especially when counterpart financing issues are acute while potentialrewards are high,
e.g. social sector and CDD projects may be financed up to loo%, when appropriate, including
selected on-going projects for disbursements going forward; (iii)    more flexible and simplified
Bank procedures are being introduced including disbursement simplification, increased
procurement thresholds for prior reviews, and harmonized implementation arrangements; (iv)
project monitoring and evaluation systems are being strengthened; (v) capacity building and
scaling up good practices are enhanced; and (vi) projects will continue to be reworked in
alignment with the CPS, as needed.

8.       There is needfor enhancedpartnerships,mutualaccountability and harmonization.
The above steps notwithstanding, both the Federal Government and the Bank recognize the
magnitude o f the challenges and the need for a renewedbusiness model o f enhanced partnership
that i s based on mutual trust and accountability for results. The CPS and the on-going portfolio
are the main and mutually reinforcing instruments for such partnership. The CPS also provides
the basis for project and donor harmonization. A t the project level, harmonization and gradual
consolidation o f the five CDD operations inthe Nigeria portfolio has been initated. InFY06, an
evaluation will be undertaken o f these projects (Community Based Poverty Reduction,
Community Based Urban Development, Local Empowerment and Environmental Management,
Fadama I1 and HIV/AIDS).        At the donor level, the CPS provides a solid basis for Wher
harmonizing donor activities which i s based on the strong country-led framework o f the NEEDS
and SEEDS.

9.       Short and medium-termprospects for portfolio improvements- realistic optimism
and vigilance. As a result of the last two portfolio reviews (June and December 2004) and the
consultations duringthe CPS preparation, there are now encouraging signals that the portfolio i s
beingrepositioned in the context of the NEEDS. The portfolio restructuring and improvement
measures (along with continued vigilance and support) are expected to trigger: (i)     incremental
improvements in the short term (e.g. faster implementation pace, increased disbursements,
better M&E ,especially inthe performance o f well positioned states and federal units); and (ii)
visible and sustained gains in the medium term (e.g. intermediate resultdquick wins,
harmonization, program cohesion at Federal and State level, and further streamlining o f the
existing projects). As the restructured projects are relatively young and have only disbursed a
small percentage o f net commitments, they stand a good chance to use effectively the
undisbursedcredit balance. As a result, the project outcomes o fthe closingprojects as evaluated
by OED also have a good chance to gradually improve and, thus, reverse Nigeria's country
record on outcomes inthe near future. Decentralizationand staff organization around the CPS,
as well as the DFIDBank partnership, are essential factors for significantly improved portfolio
performance.




                                                 3

                     Iv.     SUMMARY OFPROPOSEDPROJECTAMENDMENTS

10.     Table 1 summarizes the key changes to the eight priority projects. Considering advice
from the AFR Legal Department, the Region determined that the changes concerning the
Privatization Support Project and the Community Based Urban Development Project are
significant and warrant Board approval on a non-objectionbasis; and that the restructuring o f the
other six projects fell within the authority o f the RVP or CD. To expedite implementation o fthe
restructured projects, relevant amendments were approved as they were completed. Section V in
this document includes the amendments that require Board approval.               Summaries on
restructured projects approved bythe Region are included for information inSection VI. Unless
explicitly noted in the amendments, revisions to the K p I s and/or targets are reflected in the
respective Project ImplementationManuals (PIMs). All together, the eight restructured projects
represent about 54% o f the current net commitments, and the upcoming harmonization o f the
CDD projects an additional 11%.


              Table 1:Summary of Portfolio Restructuring Highlights by Project



                           * 3
                           eaJ
                   Y

                                                                     h
                                                                             Y
                                                                             VJ
                                                                     W
                                                                     v1            - h
                   5;
                    83 s8:.ps: Q
                    E a                              2:
                                              .I
                                              8      .f 4
                                                      apk    Y
                                                             8
                    a.2    8as g                             8
                                                      L
                                              Y
                                              E
                                                             e               r     $ 5
                                                                                   &g
                                       VJ                    L     -r:Y      cd
                                   V J Q )
                                       c,  .= ,o     m l           2 a
                                                                   u o             0 0

       Revisions           6E 2
                             $             6 #"
                                           z 3
                                                     u.9u a
                                                      O Q k        &$        68*   4 4



1. Privatization    No     Yes     Yes      Yes       No     Yes    Yes      No    Board
SupportProject
2. Community       Yes     Yes     Yes      Yes       Yes    Yes    Yes      No    Board
BasedUrban       I       I       I        I         I       I    I        I       I
Development
       MENDMENTS APPROVEDITOBE APPROVEDBY THEREGION (SECTION VI)




Development
3. Community       No      Yes     No       Yes       Yes    No     Yes      No      CD
BasedPoverty
Reduction




                                                   4

               v.      PROPOSEDPROJECT RESTRUCTURINGFOR BOARD APPROVAL

 11.     A.      Privatization Support Proiect (PSP) (Cr. 3520-UNI) SDR 90.2 million
JUS114.29 million equivalent): The project was approved by the Board on June 14, 2001 and
became effective on November 21,2001. The project's closing date i s June 30,2006.

 12.     The project's development objectives are: (1) to support transparent and effective
implementation o f the FGN's privatization program, as a basis for fostering accelerated
 economic growth, through expanded private investment and improved efficiency in the
productive sectors, and in infrastructure; and (2) to create an enabling environment for private
 sector participation and competition in infrastructure services, notably in telecommunications
 andelectric power.

 13.     Status: About US$32.02 million o fproject funds have beendisbursed as o fMay 3, 2005.
The project's implementation performance is rated moderately satisfactory. The project has
uneven implementation performance and mixed achievements o f different components.            The
proposed restructuring aims to: (i)scale up the telecommunications sector reform component;
(ii)consolidatetheemergencyrecoveryoftheLagosStateWater Corporation(LSWC) and
supporting additional civil works that are key to increase access and the quality o f services at
LSWC and other urban water utilities; (iii)   retrofit IDA'Sprivatization support to improve the
program's effectiveness through specific benchmarks to track performance and results; and (iv)
streamline the project's support to the electric power sector reform component and provide
selected technical assistanceto promote public-private partnerships ingas power development.

(a) The Telecommunications Sector Reform component has been highly satisfactory as a result
of important and positive developments in the sector over the last four years and the sound
management o f this component by the National Communications Commission (NCC). During
the second half o f implementation, the project will continue to help implement relevant
provisions o f the Telecommunications Bill, strengthen the regulatory framework and NCC's
institutional capacities, modernize the frequency management system, advise on options for the
fbture privatization o f Nigerian Telecommunication Limited (NITEL) and Nigerian Mobile
Telecommunications Limited(M-Tel), and carry out pilot projects on ruralhiversa1access. The
proposed re-allocation o f the Credit would increase the project's financing o f this component by
about US$9.6 million to US$26.56 million to cover the additional expenses for rural access
programs (US$7.2 million), radio spectrum monitoring and management support (US$0.4
million), regulatory work and technical assistance (US$ 1.2 million), market studies and
management information systems (US$0.8 million).

(b) The implementation of the Privatization Program component by the Bureau o f Public
Enterprises (BPE) has achieved significant progress over the last year and i s now rated
satisfactory.  In July 2004, a Bank mission reviewed with BPE Management the status of
performance benchmarks, and noted that BPE has achieved strong progress towards meeting the
key criteria for HighCase Scenario o f IDA'Ssupport to the privatizationprogram. To date, BPE
has divested over 33 Public Enterprises (PES), which generated about NGN 44 billion o f
revenues to the Treasury and time-bound action plans are in place to complete eight pending
transactions up to financial closure in the short run, and about 30 other longer-term operations
during the remainder o f the project. BPE has also produced a draft national transport policy, a

principal pillar o f which i s the transformation o f the sector into one that is private sector driven.
 Inthisregard, a draft sector regulatory frameworkhasbeenprepared. Inaddition, underits high-
case scenario, BPE has on-going detailed work programs for divesting the railways,
 concessioning the airport management, restructuring the postal services, and privatizing the
telecommunications company.          Overall BPE i s expected to prepare and execute divesture
transactions for about 71 enterprises under the PSP. This, however, i s about 30 percent less than
the number targeted at the outset of the project. It is now proposed to include activities for
 establishing a transport sector regulator and the promotion o f further private sector participation
inthe road andrelated infrastructure development, rehabilitationandmaintenance. Onthe basis
o f the revised work programs and procurement plans, US$40.65 will be allocated for BPE's
activities.    This however represents a reduction o f about US$20.44 million from initial
 allocations inthe ProjectAppraisal Document.

(c)    The Urban Water Sector Restructuring component has also been rated satisfactory.
Although the L SW C has continued to accumulate operational deficits, it has drastically reduced
its losses by over 77 percent annually since 2001, compared to initial projections at project
appraisal. Its emergency rehabilitationplanhas helpedprevent a system failure and maintain the
viability o f the company. The LSWC i s on track to achieve its key operational and commercial
performance targets agreed upon under the project. In this context, implementation o f LSWC's
emergency rehabilitation plan will be consolidated during the remainder o f the PSP
implementationperiod. The proposed reallocation o f the Credit would increase IDA funding o f
this component by about US$3.6 million to US$15.22 million in order to provide adequate
financing for critical spare parts required for emergency repairs and maintenance (US$2.5
million), to cover additional expenses for stakeholder and customer communications (US$O.9
million) and for training and capacity building (US$0.2 million). It i s also proposed to add a
category o f civil works to the Credit Agreement for urban water supply infrastructure,
engineering and construction supervision which would build upon the progress achieved under
the project with LSWC and other urban water utilities contemplating significant PSP
involvement. The main objective o f this component, estimated at US$30 million, i s to support
critical investmentsneeded to sustain adequate access and quality o f services untilmore suitable
and durable solutions are implemented with private sector participation. Its implementation will
be closely coordinated with other related operations, notably the forthcoming Second National
UrbanWater ReformProject.

14.      However, the above achievements have been offset by the unsatisfactory performance o f
theElectric Power Sector Reform component which was dueto delays inthe adoption ofthe new
Electric Power Sector Reform Bill upon which the whole sector reform and project's activities
largely depended. The Bill has now been enacted into law which i s three years later than
expected at the outset o f the project. Some progress has been made in carrying out National
Electric Power Authority (NEPA) restructuring, expanding its electric power capacities, and
strengthening its commercial operations but substantive improvements across the sector are
required for the enabling policy, legal and regulatory framework to be spelled out inthe new bill.
InlightoftheimplementationdelaysintheElectricPowerSectorReformcomponent, agreement
was reached with the Government to restructure and focus the BPE component on key activities
estimated at US$l1.45 million, necessary for consistent progress on sector policy reforms. These
activities consist o f advisory services for NEPA unbundling, corporate restructuring and
blueprint implementation (US$2.85 million); legal work stream, labor relations, financial,
technical assistance, and communication strategy for setting up the new business units (US$0.45


                                                  6

 million); hands-on assistance to the newly-established system operator (US$3.0 million);
 capacity building o f the electricity regulatory agency (US$3S O million); and other related
 studies and TA, rural energy policy work, and training o f a manger o f the new companies
 (US$1.65 million). Moreover, and in order to accelerate the pace, it was agreed to move the
 activities o f a more technical nature to be implemented by NEPA through the Project
 Management Unit established for the Transmission Development Project. These activities are
 estimated at US$3.65 million and include: implementation o f the business plan for the new
 transmission system company (US1.4 million); MIS and software systems for Transysco and
 the 11Distribution Companies (US$1.O million); transmission pricing study (US$0.25 million);
 and load Demand and Forecast Study (US$l.O million).           The amendment provides for the
 NEPA-PMU to be established as the executing agency under the PSP and to have a separate
 Special Account to implementthese activities.

 15.     Government Request: The Government has requested IDA to amend the DCA inorder
 to reallocate the proceeds o f the Credit. In addition, the FGNhas requested IDA to add a sub-
 component to the PSP to provide technical assistance for a feasibility study o f a gas pipeline and
 independent power production project. This project aims to: (a) attract private sector investors to
 undertake the gas transmission infrastructure critical for Independent Power Producers (IPPs) to
 invest in power generation; (b) survey and identify potential sites for IPPs in the central and
 northern parts of the country; and (c) produce minimum standard o f the basic requirements for
 foreign participation in the PP's to guide prospective investors, noting that these activities fit
 withinthe overallPSP's development objectives. Accordingly, an amount o f US$lO millionwill
 be allocated for the technical assistance and advisory services to launch the sequence o f studies
 and preparatory work required for this project. The FGN has also requested the inclusion of
 additional procurement methods for consultant services, through least cost selection and
 consultant qualification, to enable the implementing agencies to more appropriately procure
 consultant services, particularly to carry out the project environmental and financial audits and
 other specialized technical work. A request has also beenmade for the inclusion o f procurement
 methods for civil works to enable the executing agencies to carry out the proposedwater supply
 infrastructure, engineering and construction supervision and to improve quality and access of
 these basic services.

 16.     Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
 include: (i)Article IGeneral Conditions; Definitions; (ii)Article I11Execution o f the Project;
 (iii)Schedule1WithdrawaloftheProceedsoftheCredit;(iv)AnnexAtoSchedule1Operation
of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made On The Basis o f Project Management
Reports; (v) Schedule 2 Description o f the Project; and (vi) Schedule 3 Procurement and
Consultants' Services. The recommended amendments are inAnnex 1.

 17.     B.     Community Based Urban Development Proiect (CBUDP) (Cr. 3654-UNI)
SDR 88.1 million (US$110 million equivalent): The project was approved by the Board on
June 6, 2002 and declared effective on June 23,2003. The project i s scheduled to close on June
30,2009.

 18.     The Project Development Objectives are:          (i)to establish partnerships between
communities and their Local Governments (LGs) so that subproject proposals are developed
jointly by them; (ii)to deliver basic municipal services inpoor urban settlements; and (iii)to
demonstrate viable approaches to infrastructure development and service delivery that enable


                                                  7

LGsto move away from a culture o ftotal financial dependency for infrastructure investment and
even recurrent expenditures for infrastructure operation andmaintenance.

 19.     Status: The CBUDP is designedto be implementedintwo phases. InPhase I,             one city
each in seven states - Uyo inAkwa %om, Bauchi City inBauchi, Abakaliki inEbonyi, Benin in
Edo, Hadejia in Jigawa, Karu in Nasarawa, and Abeokuta in Ogunin Ogun would start
implementing their subproject packages prepared before project appraisal from pre-allocated
h d s as soon as the project became effective. Using the unallocated pool o f funds of the
UpgradingFund, inPhase I1six additional cities from six additional states would join the project
at effectiveness and prepare and implement their first subproject package (Abia, Adamawa,
Kaduna, Ondo, Rivers and Sokoto). Only one state in the Phase 11, Ondo, has accessed the
project and consultants for detailed engineering are expected to be mobilized by June 2005. It
was envisaged that Phase Iwould have beencompleted by now and the seven cities inthe seven
states would have finished implementingtheir first subproject packages and started accessing the
UpgradingFundto prepare the second round o f sub-project packages. It was also expected that
six additional cities in six states would have accessed the Upgrading Fund for preparation o f
their first subproject packages and would be about to start implementation. Thirteen cities were
to have been accessing funds from the UpgradingFundbynow however this i s not the case.

20.      As o f May 3, 2005, the project has disbursed US$8.90 million. Both the project's DO
and IP are rated unsatisfactory.

21.      There are several factors that have led to the project's restructuring and to addressing the
bottlenecks that have impeded project performance. First, only eight cities have demonstrated
demand and accessed the project. More resources are available for the participating cities
because the number has declined from thirteen to eight cities, and the appreciation o f the SDR
has been substantial. This amounts to an additional US$23 million o f the IDA Credit. To
disburse more funds from a project with fewer cities, requires substantial modification to the
project's design to ensure the project i s completed within three and a half years. Second,
political interference has caused substantial delays, both during the bid evaluation process, and,
in some cases, even after awards had been cleared by IDA. The latter has resulted indelayed
signing o f cleared contracts, insome cases, delays o f as much as six to eight months. The project
will not disburse unless there is a major change in implementation arrangements. Third, the
Federal Project Coordination Unit (FPCU) has not been functional, and there i s no entity
coordinating, monitoring, or providing support to the State Project Implementation Units to
proactively mitigate against implementation delays. Fourth, the 20 percent counterpart fund
requirement in CBUDP i s high, given the low per capita GDP o f Nigeria. Finally, the lack o f
incentives for performance has affected PIU staff morale, worsened by the delays in
implementation, andthe consequent slow results on the ground.

22.     Government request: The Government has requested: (i)            a reduction in counterpart
fund contributions; (ii)100 percent financing o f goods, training, and operating costs; (iii)
modification o f eligibility criteria for subprojects to finance more trunk infrastructureinaddition
to upgrading activities in new communities and additional works and goods procurement in
communities where implementation i s under way, especially with respect to sanitation;          (iv)
focusing project activities from unallocated funds in those cities that are already actively
participating in the project to ensure impact o f investments and scaling-up o f upgrading; (v)
broadening the scope o f training and capacity building activities to include overseas trips that


                                                   8

 contribute to relevant exposure; (vi) performance bonus packages for performing staff; (vii) re-
 defining the FPCU to be under the Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban Development
 (FMHUD);and (viii) allocationoffundsto support theFPCU.
I23.    Theproposedproject restructuring involves the following actions:

        (i) Onlyeightcitieswillparticipateintheproject.
        (ii) Theproject'sdevelopmentobjectiveswillbemodifiedfromthreetoonetomake
        it easier to monitor the achievement of development objectives.
        (iii)The project's design and eligibility criteria for subproject packages will be
        modified to enable financing o f larger subproject packages, including trunk infrastructure
        to increase access to urban services. Subprojects will be packaged to reduce the number
        o f contracts for contract management purposes.           Based on these modifications,
        disbursementsare expected to peak in2006 and 2007.
        (iv)    The integrity of the bid evaluation process will be strengthened in two ways.
        First, design engineering consulting firms will provide bid evaluation services to the
        PIUS,changing the past practice o f the PIUs undertakingthe bid evaluation themselves,
        leaving the process open to interference.       Second, the role o f the Project Steering
        Committee (PSC) consisting o f the political leadership in each state, will be re-defined.
        PSC's will review performance o f PIUs through post-review o f the activities, and not, as
        i s currently the case, o fprior review. This has led to enormous interference inthe day to
        day operations o f the PIUS.
        (v)     The Ministry to which the FPCU reported to in 2002, has changed from the
        Federal Ministry o f Works and Housing to the Federal Ministry o f Housing and Urban
        Development. This change will be reflected in the DCA. Technical Assistance will be
        provided to the FPCU to ensure that systematic project coordination and monitoring,
        preparation o f consolidated reports from states, andproactive support to states to mitigate
        against implementation delays, is in place as soon as possible.         Monthly operating
        support will also beprovidedto the FPCU.
        (vi)    The counterpart fund contribution from states will bereduced to only a 5 percent
        requirement for local costs o f civil works, with IDA financing 100 percent of foreign
        costs and 95 percent o f local costs o f civil works. IDA will finance 100 percent o f all
        other costs.

 24.    Recommended Amendments. The amendments for which Board approval is sought
 include: (i)Article IGeneral Conditions; Definitions; (ii)Schedule 1 Withdrawal o f the
 Proceeds o f the Credit; (iii)Annex A to Schedule 1 Operation o f Special Accounts When
 Withdrawals Are Not Made On the Basis o f Financial Monitoring Reports; (iv) Schedule 2
 Description o f the Project; and (v) Schedule 4 Implementation Program. The recommended
 amendments are inAnnex 2.

  VI.     SUMMARY OF RESTRUCTUREDPROJECTSAPPROVED/TO BEAPPROVED BYTHE REGION


I25.    The following amendments have been, or will shortly be approved bythe Region:

 26.    A. UniversalBasic Education Project (Cr. 3711-UNI) SDR 76.3 (US$101 million):
 The project was approved by the Board on September 12, 2002, and declared effective on




                                                  9

November 10, 2003. A disbursement condition on the Federal component was met on M a y 20,
2004. The project's closingdate i s June 30,2008.

27.        The Project Development Objective is to support the implementation o f the
Government o f Nigeria's universal basic education (UBE) program. The specific objective o f the
Bank's support i s to increase the capacity o f states and local governments to manage and
implement the UBE program effectively and efficiently. The goals are to assist states and local
governments to establish and manage schools with local participation and to build capacity in
critical skills such as budgeting, participatory planning, financial management, procurement, and
project implementation.

28.        Status: Total disbursements are US$7.30 million as o f May 3, 2005. The project has
two main components. The first component, the State Programs for the Implementation o f
Universal Basic Education, provides resources to each o f the 16 participating states in the
amount o f up to US$5 million. The second component, the Federal Program Management and
Monitoring, Policy Development and Systems Support, provides resources to the Federal
MinistryofEducationandselectedfederal agenciesinthe amount ofUS$21million. Therehave
beeninitial delays inproject implementationat boththe state and federal levels due to the lack o f
counterpart funds being deposited for the project.        Weak implementation capacity has also
hindered project performance. Although efforts over the past four months have been made by
both the states and federal governments to improve project perfonnance, implementation
progress remains unsatisfactory. It i s expected that the proposed restructuring will assist the
government to improveproject performance.

29.        Government Request: The government has requested the following amendments to
the DCA: (i) allocation o f US$2 million out o f each participating State's Credit o f US$5
million for the self-help project; (ii) inclusion o f the Federal Capital Territory as an additional
participating entity in the project; and (iii)adjustments o f the Special Account thresholds to
accommodate the new changes. The government also submitted a detailed draft restructuring
proposedbythe Federal Ministry o fEducation.

30.       Themain amendmentsto the DCA are:

        (i)    Addition of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The government has requested
                the inclusion o f the FCT to receive project finds. The FCT has a credible
                education sector plan, and i s committed to an accelerated implementation
                schedule.

        (ii)Reallocation of Project Funds. Currently the project has allocated SDR13.7
                million for self-help sub-projects and the government has requested that this be
                increased to SDR 22.2 million.     This will permit more schools to participate in
                the project and assist communitiesto access sufficient resources by increasingthe
                amount o f school grants from N450,000 to N900,OOO. This reallocationo fproject
                funds will require a transfer from Civil Works and Goods to the sub-projects
                category.

        (iii) IncreasedSizeof SpecialAccounts. Withimplementationaccelerating,thesizeof
                the Special Accounts is insufficient to accommodate the demand for accelerated



                                                 10

                disbursements. To alleviate liquidity problems, the govemment has requested that
                the State Special Account be increased from US$250,000 to US$500,000 and the
                Federal Special Account be increased from US$1 millionto US$2 million.

31.       Two other key changes to the DCA based on the restructuring proposal sent by the
Federal Ministry of Educationare:

        (i)     Counterpart Funds.      Currently counterpart funds are required to finance 20
                percent o f works, 10 percent o f locally procured goods, 10 percent o f consultant
                services and 50 percent o f incremental operating costs. The govemment has
                requested that 100 percent o f all expenditure items be financed out o f the
                proceeds o f the Credit and that counterpart funds are no longer required for this
                project. The non-availability o f counterpart funds, together with weak project
                implementation capacity were the main reasons for the extremely long delays in
                project effectiveness and implementation. Inline with the new Country Financing
                Parameters (CFP) for Nigeria, which provides the flexibility to finance project
                costs up to 100 percent, especially in the social sectors to facilitate project
                implementation and promote achievement o f development objectives, it i s
                proposed that up to 100 percent o f project costs are financed out o f the Credit.
                This will remove the need for counterpart funds and enhance flexibility to
                accelerate project implementation to achieve the project's development objective
                on time.

        (ii)    State Resource Allocation. The`govemment has requested that total credit for
                each participating state be adjusted from a minimum o f US$5 million to US$2
               million. This allocation must be utilized before December 31, 2005. Each state
                then has the potential to access additional pooled resources, above US$2 million,
               basedon their improvedproject performance.

32.       Recommended Amendments. The amendments approved by the Country Director
include: (i)Article IGeneral Conditions; Definitions; (ii)Schedule 1 Withdrawal o f the
Proceeds o f the Credit; (iii)Annex A to Schedule 1 Operation o f Special Accounts When
Withdrawals Are Not Made On The Basis o f Financial Monitoring Reports; (iv) Schedule 2
Description o f the Project; (v) Schedule 3 Procurement and Consultants' Services; (vi) Schedule
4 Implementation Program; (v) Schedule 5 Terms and Conditions o f Subsidiary Credit
Agreements With ParticipatingStates RequiredPursuantto Section 3.10 (c) o fthis Agreement.

33.       B. HIV/AIDS Program Development Proiect (Cr. 3556-UNI) SDR 71 million
(US$90.3 million equivalent): The project was approved by the Board on July 6, 2001 and
became effective on April 26, 2002. The project's closing date i s June 30,2006.  The project fits
within the Multi-Country HIV/AIDSProgramfor the Africa Region.

34.       The Project Development Objective i s to assist Nigeria to reduce the spread and
mitigate the impact o fHIV infectionby strengthening its multi-sectoral response to the epidemic.
This is done through the implementation of a comprehensive program that includes the creation
o f an enabling environment for a large scale response, and laying the foundation for scaling up
HIV/AIDSprevention, care, andtreatment services at the federal, state, andlocallevels.




                                                 11

 35.         Status: Around US$26.15 million has been disbursed as of May 3, 2005. The project
has been listed as a problem project for almost two years.            A restructuring mission was
undertaken in September 2004.          It identified a number o f activities to improve project
performance, some o f which involve changes to the DCA. However, no changes to the project
 development objective are needed.

 36.         Government Request: The Government has requested that the credit is offered to all
 states o f the Federation. The current DCA lists 16 states as potentially eligible to receiveproject
 funds and it is proposed that all states o f the federation that meet the eligibility criteria be
 allowed to receive funds. The Government has also requested that resources be reallocated
among the states (some unallocated hnds have been earmarked to be allocated to high
performing entities during implementation). At the time o f project preparation, anti-retrovial
drugs were not affordable. This has now changed and the Government has requested that anti-
retroviral drugs (ARVs) be added as an eligible item o f expenditure. It i s proposed that the
project establish ARV programs in interested and eligible states. Currently, funds going to the
line ministries through the National Program Team and the State Program Teams (SPT) are
reimbursable only when the expenses are incurred and accounted for. This practice has created a
liquidityproblem, particularlyfor the SPTs. The Government ofNigeriahas requestedthat these
expenses be treated as grants which would allow the special accounts to be replenished as soon
as funds were passedto the line ministries thus avoiding the liquidityproblem. This government
request was not considered feasible by the Bank's Legal and Disbursement units so, to address
the liquidityproblem, special account amounts are beingincreased.

37.          Recommended Amendments. The amendments approved by the Country Director
include: (i)Article 1General Conditions; Definitions; (ii)Table in Schedule 1Withdrawal of
the Proceeds of the Credit; (iii)Annex A to Schedule 1 Operation of Special Accounts When
Withdrawals Are Not Made On the Basis o f Project Management Reports; and (iv) Schedule 2
Description o fthe Project.

38.          C. Transmission DeveloDment Project (Cr. 3559-UNI) SDR78.60 (USSlOO
million equivalent): The project was approved by the Board on July 31, 2001 and declared
effective on May 31,2002. The project i s scheduled to close on December 31,2006.

39.          The Project Development Objective is to support the Federal Government o f
Nigeria's overall program o f power sector reform and privatization by addressing the
requirementso f the transmission and dispatch sub-sectors, specifically through: (i)facilitating
NEPA unbundling; (ii)     establishing a transparently-regulated, financially viable, commercially-
operated Transmission and System Operation Company (TransysCo) with private participation;
(iii)removingtransmissionnetworkandsystemoperationconstraintsonprovisionofreliable
power supply; and (iv) facilitating development o f an efficient wholesale power market to
improve the long-termperformance o fthe power sector.

40.         Status: About US$29.67 millionhas been disbursed as of May 3, 2005. Both the DO
and JP are rated as satisfactory.

41.         Government Request: The Government requested the Bank to set aside US$15
million under the Project to finance pressing distribution efficiency improvement measures.
Recognizing that "adequate and reliable power to consumers" cannot be delivered without such


                                                 12

improvements inthe efficiency o f the power supply and commercial services, the Bank agreed to
the Government's request. At the time o f project preparation and approval, the distribution sub-
 sector had not been included for funding.           There have been however several positive
 developments in the distribution sub-sector in the last 12 months that have provided an
opportunity for rapid and sustainable change. Reforms have gained momentum with NEPA's
unbundling its distribution business into 11distribution business units (DBUs) as o f January 1,
2004. The DBUs have commenced operations as profit centers with a substantial devolution of
 authority and responsibility. A new Electric Power Sector Reform Law has been enacted, which
will enable theDBUsto betransformed into companies and seek private participation. The Bank
has helped NEPA to evolve the Commercial Reorientation o f the Electricity Sector Toolkit
(CREST) approach to achieve quick distribution efficiency impacts.             CREST is a set o f
initiatives that target loss reductions, energy accounting, commercial improvements and
customer service enhancements. CREST pilots have been successfully implemented in 8 o f the
 11DBUs, andhave yielded dramatic improvements including loss reductions that are eligible for
carbon finance.      The US$15 million component will finance the scale up o f the CREST
initiatives to all the Distribution Business Units/Companies.

42.        Recommended Amendments. The amendments approved by the Regional Vice
President include:     (i)Table inSchedule 1Withdrawal ofthe Proceeds ofthe Credit; (ii)
Schedule 2 Description o f the Project; and (iii)performance indicators o f the annex to the
Supplemental Letter dated August 23,2001.

43.        D. Second Health Systems Development Proiect (Cr. 3653-UNI)                   SDR101.8
million (US$127 million equivalent: The project was approved by the Board on June 6, 2002
andbecame effectiveon May 23,2003. Theproject closing date is July 1,2007.

44.        The ProjectDevelopmentObjective is to assist the Nigerianhealthauthorities intheir
efforts to redress the serious deterioration inthe delivery o f basic health care services following
decades o f neglect and build institutional capacities, paving the way for a more sustained
development o f the Nigerian health care system.       More specifically, the project would:      (i)
strengthencapacities for system management at the state level and encourage an environment o f
broad based consultation; (ii)support improvements in the delivery o f primary health care
services with a particular focus on maternal and child health and reproductive health services;
and (iii)assistthe FederalGovernment to strengthenits policy formulation andfurther develop a
system to monitor the health sector Performance.

45.        Status: The project has disbursed US$27.67 million as o f May 3, 2005. The DO is
rated unsatisfactory and the IP i s rated satisfactory. Initial delays in project implementation at
both the Federal and States levels were primarily due to weak implementation capacity and the
lack o f the timely provision of counterpart funds. The project's implementation progress
remains slow. However, there have been improvements over the last year at both the Federaland
State levels reflected by increased disbursements. It i s expected that the proposed restructuring
will assist the government to accelerateproject performance.

46.       GovernmentRequest: Themain amendmentsto the DCA include:

        (i)Additionof KanoState.         The project currently consists o f 35 states plus the FCT.
        The DCA lists 36 states that are eligible to receive project funds. The Government has


                                                 13

        requested the inclusion o f Kano State which i s acceptable, given that Kano State i s hlly
        committed to improvingthe delivery o fhealthservices.

        (ii)Reallocationof ProjectFunds. TheGovernmenthasrequestedthatprojectfundsbe
        reallocated from the less performing states to the better performing states. This will
        permit competition among states. There will be two unallocated "pools" o f b d s - one
        for the Federal Ministry o f Health and one for the states. The state pool will provide
        additional funding for states that exhaust their allocated resources.
        (iii)ExpenditureCategories. Currentlytheprojecthas4expenditurecategoriesforthe
        federal and state. The Government has requested that there be two major disbursement
        categories which will alleviate the problems o f reallocation between categories for each
        o f the 36 states. This will allow for more flexibility in funding o f the priority activities
        which differ from state to state. For simplification purposes, goods, works, services and
        training are combined into one category.

        (iv) Counterpart Funds. Currently counterpart funds are required to finance 20 percent
        o f works, o f locally procured goods, o f consultant services and incremental operating
        costs. The Government has requested that 100 percent o f all expenditure items be
        financed out o f the proceeds o f the Credit and that counterpart funds no longer be
        required for this project. The non-availability o f counterpart funds, together with weak
        project implementation capacity, were major reasons for the extremely long delays in
        project effectiveness and implementation. In line with the new CFP for Nigeria, which
        provides the flexibility to finance project costs up to 100 percent, especially inthe social
        sectors to facilitate project implementation and promote achievement o f development
        objectives, it proposes that up to 100 percent o f project costs are financed out o f the
        Credit. This will enhance flexibility to accelerateproject implementation and achieve the
        project's development objective on time.

47.        Inadditionto themainamendments,the detailed draftrestructuringproposalattached
to the Borrower's request included a list o f other proposed amendments to the DCA. Two
further keychangesare:

        (i) Inclusion of SecondaryHealthCare. ThisamendmentwillenableboththeStates
        and Federal Ministry o f Health to carry out the Federal Government's Presidential
        Initiative in Accelerating the Health MDGs. The Government has requested that the
        amount for eachparticipating state be adjusted from a minimumo fUS$5 millionto US$2
        million. This allocation must be utilized before December 31, 2005. Each state then has
        the potential to access additionalpooledresources, above US$2 million amount, based on
        their improvedproject performance.

        (ii)    Creation of a New Project Activity for            Vaccines.     To accelerate the
       implementation o f Nigeria's health MDG program, the Federal Government has
       requested an additional project activity for the procurement o f vaccines for childhood
       preventable diseases.

48.        Recommended Amendments. The amendments to be approved by the Country
Director include: (i)Article IGeneral Conditions; Definitions; (ii)Article I11Execution o f the
Project;   (iii)Article V EffectiveDate; Termination; (iv)          Schedule 1 Withdrawal o f the



                                                14

Proceeds o f the Credit; (v) Section 2 Description o f the Project (vi) Schedule 5 Terms and
Conditions o f the Subsidiary Agreements with Participating States RequiredPursuant to Section
3.01 (c) o f this Agreement.

49.        E. Lagos Urban Transport Project (LUTP) (Cr. 3720-UNI) SDR 75.5 million
@JS$lOOmillion equivalent): The project supports the transport sector policy and strategy o f
the Lagos State Government and was approved by the Board on November 21, 2002 and
declared effective on October 30,2003. The project i s scheduled to close on June 30,2008.

50.        The ProjectDevelopmentObjective i s to sustainably improve the capacity to manage
the transport sector in the Lagos Metropolitan Area and enhance the efficiency o f the public
transport network, such that it contributes measurably to poverty reduction.

51.        Status: As of May 3, 2005, LUTP has disbursedUS$20.0 million. The DO is rated
moderately unsatisfactory and the IP i s rated moderatelyunsatisfactory. Both the DO and Ipare
expected to be rated satisfactory as a result o f the project's restructuring. Lagos Metropolitan
Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) focused initially in the project's implementation on
works for the maintenance and rehabilitation o f the roads o f the Declared Network, and the
agency has been able to show a significant improvement in the quality o f the planning,
procurement and works compared to the prevalent practice. During the 14 month period since
project effectiveness, the project has committed US$29.5 million almost entirely on the road
maintenance activity and capacity building. In2004, the Federal Ministry o f Works decided to
carry out itself, using federal budget resources, the necessary rehabilitation and maintenance o f
the federal roads in Lagos State instead o f authorizing LAMATA to undertake this work as was
originally planned. The Federal roads represent approximately half the size o f the Declared
Road Network (343 km out o f a total length o f 635 km), the state roads covers 275 km and the
local roads 15 km.

52.       Inaddition, the roadmaintenance works done in2004 resulted in a muchhigher cost
than originallyplannedduringthe project's preparation. The price o f hel, for example, that is a
major cost element o f the inputs doubled during this period. This led to a significant increase in
the unit costs for physical works which i s expected to be the case for similar works to be carried
out in the remaining period o f project implementation. Also, due to the heavy traffic volume,
more roads thanpreviously envisaged are due for overlay or rehabilitation.

53.       N o direct transfer has yet beenmade from the user charges to the Transport Fund, but
the study o f the Motor Vehicle Administration i s being procured and will be the first step in
definingthe mechanism for the transfer.

54.       The Lagos State Government has reaffirmed its intention to implement the public
transport regulatory reform. A draft bus franchise regulation has beenprepared and i s expected
to be signed by the Governor o f Lagos State in June 2005. Two pilot bus franchises are being
prepared, one by LAMATA under the project, and one by the State Ministry o f Transport. These
franchise projects are expected to be under the same franchise regulation.

55.       Disbursement has been very limited so far with regard to the studies and technical
assistance project activities. As stated previously, LAMATA initially focused on getting the
road works started. I t has progressively recruited quality staff on technical assistance and it i s



                                                15

now in a position to address more effectively these components. But this has translated into a
late start for public transport activities, for the preparation o f the next phases, and for the
capacity buildingo f other related State agencies.

56.         Government Request: The Government has requested IDA to remove from the
project's activities the recurrent and periodic maintenance as well as rehabilitation works o f the
federal roads and federal bridges included in the Declared Road Networks, and to increase the
amount o f periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works on State and Local Government roads
inthe sameDeclared RoadNetwork, including drainage works. Theidentifiedoverlayworks for
this additional package show economic rates ofreturninthe rangeo f20 to 30%. Ofthese roads,
nine are likely to require displacement. Inmost cases, the displacement will be temporary and
no permanent structures will needto be replaced or compensated.

57.        During project preparation, 38 junctions had been identified for treatment and
improvement. After review, the treatment o f 70junctions i s beingproposed excluding junctions
on federal roads. In several cases, the treatment o f these junctions will require more complex
work than anticipated as it is necessary to improve the turning movements. While the specific
junctions to be included are subject to change at least six o f them involve some resettlement.
The degree o f displacement and resettlement ranges from the temporary relocation o f traders
while works are performed, or the rearrangement o f occupants to permit better pedestrian flow,
to permanent removalto new locations.

58.        The Government has requested IDA to finance the implementation of the bus pilot
operation when it i s ready. The Pilot BusFranchise Project is being studied on the corridor Iyan-
Ipaja to Ikotun, which differs from the one originally envisaged. The more moderate volume on
this route is expected to be amenable to the limitedsize ofthe operation, while serving a rapidly
growing area. There will be resettlement issues at junctions, termini and for a depot yet to be
identified. Themajor displacement that canbe anticipated is likeIyto be vendors andtraders, but
some land acquisition could be necessary for the terminal and the depot.             The financial
mechanism to finance the franchise operation i s yet to be defined. The credit will finance the
feasibility study and the design o f the Pilot Bus Franchise Project. Provided the design o f the
project is satisfactory to IDA, the credit will also finance the infrastructure works, the
construction supervision and the technical assistance to the implementation, while the
resettlement andthe franchise operation will be financed by the Transport Fund.

59.        The Extended Resettlement Policy Framework is being completed and Resettlement
Action Plans will be prepared and implemented accordingly as required for the road works or
other project facilities.

60.        The Government also requested to allow for the financing o f capacity building
activities inthe Lagos State Traffic Enforcement Authority (LASTMA). LASTMA i s the traffic
enforcement arm o f Lagos State in parallel with the Nigerian Traffic Police which i s a federal
agency. LASTMA i s expected to have the main responsibility for traffic enforcement and road
safety inLagos.

61.        The covenant mentioned in section 2.05 (a) o f the Project Agreement requires.that
Lagos State contribute no less than the equivalent o f US$7 million each fiscal year, commencing
in2003 (i.e. US$35,000,000 for the total duration ofthe project) into the Transport Fundwhich



                                                16

would fund the maintenance o f the roads that are the responsibility o f LAMATA. During the
project's appraisal, it was envisaged that the project would begin early in January 2003.
However, the project became effective only on October 3lS`, 2003 for reasons largely
independentfrom Lagos State, and implementationdid not beginbefore November 2003. For
that reason, the Government requested to reschedule the related obligation o f Lagos State and to
begin in 2004, including this year the amounts contributed since project effectiveness (i.e. in
November-December 2003).

62.       The Government has requested the cancellation o f section 2.05 (b) o f the Project
Agreement with Lagos State. This covenant specifies the amounts to be directly transferred from
user charges to be deposited inthe Transport Fundstarting from 2003. The covenant's objective
i s to measure the progress o f the financial sustainability o f the management o f the transport
sector by LAMATA; the quicker the annual direct transfers from user charges reach the amount
o f US$7,000,000 equivalent (which i s the estimated needed amount for the road maintenance),
the quicker LAMATA's activity i s financially sustainable. It i s expected that these transfers will
progressively replace the US$7,000,000 that Lagos State contributes annually to the Transport
Fund. To fulfill this obligation, the Government will first carry out a set of studies (the first one
is presently procured and concems the organization o f the MVA) and will hold consultations
with the civil society and interested parties. Therefore, Lagos State Government will start later
than expected to transfer money from user charges, but will then catch up with the delay. The
mechanism for transferring US$7,000,000 from user charges to the Transport Fund will be in
place before the end o f the project and will remain a project performance indicator.

63.       The Government also requested to delete the performance indicator on the number o f
traffic accidents related to pedestrians as the statistical data are not accurate enough to be
relevant to the assessment o f the project's performance.       As part o f the capacity building
component, the project will develop a strategy for improving the collection and analysis o f
traffic accident data. The performance indicators for intermediate outcomes have also been
revisedto better take into account the expected outputs oftheproject.

64.       RecommendedAmendments. The amendmentsto be approvedbythe Regional Vice
President include: (i)Article I,General Conditions; Definitions; (ii)table in Schedule 1
Withdrawal o f the Proceeds o f the Credit; (iii)Schedule      2 Description o f the Project;    (iv)
Project Agreement Section 2.05; and (v) revised performance indicators to be included in the
Project ImplementationManual.

65.       F. CommunitvBasedPovertyReductionProject(CBPRP) (Cr. 3447-UNI) SDR
47 million (US$60 millionequivalent): The project was approved by the Board on December
20, 2000 and declared effective on September 28, 2001. The project i s scheduled to close on
February 28,2006.

66.       The Project Development Objective i s to improve access o f the poor to social and
economic infrastructure and increase the availability and management o f development resources
at the community level.

67.       Status: CBPRP is a poverty-focused project that has established independent social
fund agencies in the six states of Abia, Cross River, Ekiti, Kebbi, Kogi and Yobe in the first
phase. An additional six states will be included in the second phase, two states (Kwara and


                                                17

Ebonyi) are to be funded by the World Bank and the other four states by the African
Development Bank. Although project implementation was initially slow, project performance
has been satisfactory over the last two years. Over 1200 microprojects have been approved in
more than 1000 communities in the six states that are currently disbursing. A s o f M a y 3, 2005
about US$38.79 million has been disbursed.        A mid-term review mission in October 2004
identified activities that needed to improve and further accelerate project performance. Some of
these activities require changes to the DCA. There are, however, no changes to the project's
development objective.

68.        GovernmentRequest: The mainamendments to the D C A include:

        (9       Addition of Two States: The Government has requested the addition o f Ebonyi
        and Kwara to receive project h d s in the second phase as soon as they meet the
        eligibility criteria.

        (ii)    Reallocation of Project Resources to States and the National Planning
        Commission (NPC): The Government has requested that the credit be reallocated based
        on performance and revised disbursement projections, and the addition of new states.
        Schedule 1of the D C A will be revised to reflect these changes.

        (iii)   Disbursement from the NPC to Key Agencies to be Treated as Special
        Allocations.    Currently h d s going to the Federal Office o f Statistics, Ministry of
        Women Affairs and other units inthe National Planning Commission for project related
        activities through the NPC are reimbursable only when the expenses are incurred and
        accounted for. This has created a liquidityproblem for the NPC. The special account
        limito fthe NPC andstate agencies will beincreasedto relieve the liquidityproblem.

69.        Recommended Amendments: The amendments to be approved by the Country
Director include: (i)   Preamble o f the Agreement; (ii)Article IGeneral Conditions; Definitions;
(iii)Schedule     1 Withdrawal o f the Proceeds o f the Credit; and (iv) Schedule 5 Special
Accounts.




                                               18

                                                                                Annex 1

                  PrivatizationSupport ProjectRecommendedAmendments


To respond to Government's request, it i s recommended that the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) dated August 23,2001 between the Federal Republic o f Nigeria (the Borrower) and IDA
beamendedas follows:

(i)   A new paragraph 1.02 (n) is added to the Agreement to read as follows, and successive
      paragraphs are re-lettered correspondingly:

      (n)      "NEPA" means "National Electric Power Authority," established and operating
      pursuant to the National Electric Power Authority Act 1972 (Act No. 24) o f the
      Borrower, as amended to the date o fthis Agreement;

(ii)  Section 3.01(a) i s amended to read as follows:

      3.01(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives o f the Project as set forth
      inSchedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) carry out PartsA, B (l),
                                                           shall                          B (2),
      B (4), C (l),C (3) through (6) of the Project through BPE; Parts B (3), B (5) and B
                     and
      (6) o f the Project through NCC; Part C (2) ofthe Project through NERC; and Part C(7) of
      the Project through NEPA, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
      appropriate administrative, financial, andmanagement practices.




                                               19

(iii)Paragraph 1 of Part A o f Schedule 1 to the Agreement i s deleted and replaced by new
     Paragraph 1.

                                   Amount o f the Credit
                                   Allocated (Expressed % of
                                   inSDREquivalent)     Expenditures
      Category                                          to be Financed

      Supplyand Installation:

      (a) Underpart B(6)        13,694,000               lOQ% of foreign expenditures;
          o f the project                               100%of local (ex-factory
                                                        cost); and
      (b) Underpart D(2)        5,231,000               40% oflocal expenditures for
          Ofthe project                                 other itemsprocured locally.

      Goods                                             90%

      (a) Underpart C(2)       499,000
          o f the project

      (b)Under partD            1,874,000
          o fthe project




                                           20

                            Amount of the Credit
                            Allocated (Expressed % of
                            inSDREcluivalent)    Expenditures
Category                                        to be Financed

Consultants' Services:                           100%

                         32,618,000




(b) Underparts B(3),     2,077,000
    B(5), andB(6)
    o fthe project

(c) Underpart C(2)       665,000
    of the project

(d) Underpart D          2,734,000
    ofthe project

(d) Underpart C(7)       2,390,000
    o fthe project

Training and Study Tours                         100%

(a) Under parts A, B(l), 3,075,000
    B(21, B(4), CU),
    C(3)-(7)
    ofthe project

(b)Underparts B(3),      997,000
    B(5), andB(6)
    of the project




                                    21

                                  Amount of the Credit % of
                                  Allocated (Expressed Expenditures
                                  inSDREquivalent)     to be Financed
  Category

  Incrementaloperating
 costs,

      (a) Underpart A         2,327,000                80% in2001
      of the project                                   70% in2002
                                                       60% in2003
                                                       50% in2004
                                                       40% in2005
                                                       andthereafter

                                                       90% in2001-3
 (b) Underpart C(2)           499,000                  70% in2004
      of the project                                   andthereafter

 Refunding ofproject           1,580,000               Amount due pursuantto
 preparationadvance                                    Section2.02 (b) ofthis
                                                       Agreement

 Unallocated                  266,000

 Civil Works under Part       19,674,000               90%
 D(3) of the Proiect

 TOTAL                        90,200,000




Paragraph 2(c) o f Part A o f Schedule 1to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

(c)     the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs
arising under Parts A and C 2) o f the Project on account o f maintenance o f equipment
and vehicles, fuel, office supplies, utilities, bank charges and advertising expenditures,
consumables, travel per diem and allowances, travel and accommodation, office rental,
but excluding salaries o f civil servants.

A new sub-paragraph (f) is added to paragraph 3 in Part A o f Schedule 1 to the
Agreement to read as follows:

(0      under Category 3(e) until: (i) has adopted the Financial ProceduresManual
                                       NEPA
and its respective Project Implementation Manual, each in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association and has appointed external auditors for the Project in
accordance with Section I1o f Schedule 3; and

A new sub-paragraph (g) is added to paragraph 3 in Part A o f Schedule 1 to the
Agreement to read as follows:


                                          22

       (8)    under Category 8 until an Environment and Social Management Framework and a
       Resettlement Policy Framework, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted by the
       State in which such works are to be carried out, and such State has agreed to carry out
       such civil works in accordance with the Environment and Social Management
       Framework and the ResettlementPolicy Framework so adopted.

(vii)  Paragraph 1o fPart B o f Schedule 1to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

       1.     The Borrower shall cause five separate special deposit accounts to be opened and
      maintained in U S Dollars: the BPE Special Account, the NCC Special Account, the
      NERC Special Account, the LSWC Special Account, and the NEPA Special Account ina
       commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
       appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.

(viii) A new Paragraph (a)(v) is added to Annex A to Schedule 1to the Agreement to read as
       follows:

       (v)    inrespect ofthe NEPA Special Account, an amount equivalent to $200,000 to be
              withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
              pursuantto paragraph2 ofthis Annex.

(ix)   Part A.l o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement i s amended to read as follows:

       1. The carrying out o f the Privatization Program through the preparation and execution
      of divestituretransactions for about 70 Public Enterprises.

(x)   Part C.2 and Part C.6 o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement are deleted and replaced by new
      Part C.2 andPart C.6 set forth below:

      2. Establishment o f the NERC as an autonomous regulatory agency, preparation o f
      implementing rules and regulations, and support for commencement o f operation by
      NERC; and institutional support for setting up implementation arrangements for the gas
      pipeline andindependentpower productionpreparatory work.

      6.      Strengthening power generation by contracting out existing and new plants to
      private operators under "Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer",   emergency power program and
      similar arrangements, based upon competitive bidding, and carrying out a feasibility
      study o f a gas pipeline and independent power production project, through provision o f
      advisory andconsultingservices."

(xi)  A new Paragraph C.7 is added to Part C o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement to read as
      follows:

      7.      Development o f business plan for electric power transmission system company,
      management information system and sofhvare systems for transmission and distribution
      companies; and carrying out o f a transmission pricing study and a load demand and
      forecast study, through the provision o f advisory and consulting services.



                                               23

(xii)  Part D o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement i s deleted and replaced by new Part D set forth
       below:

       Part D: Lagos and other Urban Water Private Sector Participation

       1.       Private sector participation in the operation o f LSWC and other public water
       utilities, including strategic review o f the policies and regulatory framework for the urban
       water sector, due diligence, financial and legal restructuring, public relations programs,
       asset valuation o f LSWC and other utilities, and carrying out a labor program, through
       provision o f advisory andconsulting services.

       2.       Acquisition, installation and operation o f equipment for repair of essential plant,
       and provision o f essential services, to enable continued production o f potable water,
       including improvement o fthe customer database, billing and collections.

       3.       Civil works to rehabilitate treatment plant pumping stations, water storage
       facilities and distribution networks o f LSWC and other urban water utilities
       contemplating significant private sector participation.

(xiii) Part C.l of Section Io f Schedule 3 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

       1.       LimitedInternationalBidding

      Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate
       amount not to exceed $4.0 million equivalent, and goods, which the Association agrees
      can only bepurchased from a limited number o f suppliers, regardless o f the cost thereof,
      may beprocured under contracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions o f paragraph
       3.2 o f the Guidelines.

(xiv) A new Part C.5 is added to Section Io f Schedule 3 to the Agreement to readas follows:

      5.        Force Account

      Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 o f the Guidelines, and costing
      $50,000 equivalent or less inthe aggregate, may, with the Association's prior agreement,
      be carried out by force account inaccordance with the provisions of said paragraph o fthe
      Guidelines.


(xv>  New Part C.5 andPart C.6 are added to Section I1o f Schedule 3 to the Agreement to read
      as follows:

      5. Least-cost Selection

      Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet the requirements o f
      paragraph 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on



                                                  24

      the basis o f Least-cost Selection in accordancewith the provisions ofparagraphs 3.1 and
      3.6 o fthe Consultant Guidelines."

      6. Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.

      Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured
      under contracts awarded inaccordancewith the provisions o fparagraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8
      o fthe Consultant Guidelines.


(xvi) A new Section 111.is addedto Schedule 3 to the Agreement to read as follows:

      Section 111.Civil Works

      1.      Civil works contracts estimated at U S $33.0 million (of which IDA would finance
      go%), to rehabilitate treatment plant pumping stations, water storage facilities and
      distribution networks will be undertaken by the project. To the extent practicable, civil
      works contracts shall be grouped in bid packages to take advantage o f bulk purchase.
      Therefore, all civil works contract estimated to cost the equivalent o f U S $1,000,000 per
      bid package, shall be procured using International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
      procedures. Each civil works contract package estimated to cost less than US$l,OOO,OOO
      equivalent may be procured using National Competitive Bidding procedure (NCB)
      acceptable to IDA. However, since there i s no National SBD acceptable to IDA for now
      inNigeria, IDA SBD for procurement o fworks (Smaller Contract) will be adaptedbythe
      project.

      2.      Minor civil works contracts, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent
      which are labor intensive, spreadover time andwhich do not lend themselves to grouping
      and therefore are unlikely to attract foreign bidders shall be procured using shopping
     procedures. These works contracts would be awarded on the basis o f quotations obtained
      from three qualified domestic contractors invited inwriting to bid. The invitation shall,
      among other things, include a detailed description o f the works, including basic
      specifications, relevant drawings and bill o f quantities where applicable, the required
     completion date and a basic form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank. A sufficient bid
     submission periodwould be allowed andbidswould be opened inpublic. The award will
     be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder who has appropriate experience and
     resourcesto successfully complete the contract.

     3.      Incases wherethe quantity ofwork cannot bedefinedinadvance, is too small and
     scattered to attract private contractors and under emergency situations, when work must
     be carried out without disrupting ongoing operations, and is estimated to cost less than
     $50,000 equivalent, force account procedures can beused.




                                              25

                                                                                 Annex 2

      CommunityBasedUrbanDevelopmentProjectRecommendedAmendments

To respond to the Government's request, it is recommended that the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) dated June 2, 2002 between the Federal Republic o f Nigeria and IDA be
amended as follows:


      Section 1.02 (0 i s amended to read as follows, and all references to "FMWH' are
      changed to "FMHUD":

      "FMHUD" meanstheBorrower's FederalMinistryofHousingandUrbanDevelopment;


       Section 1.02 (m) i s amendedto read as follows:

       "Participating State" means Akwa-Ibom, Bauchi, Ebonyi, Edo, Jigawa, Nasarawa, Ogun,
      andOndo State.


       Section 1.02 (r) i s amendedto read as follows:

      "PSC" means a Project Steering Committee established by a Participating State to
      provide overall policy guidance for urban development at the State level, andpost-review
      performance o f the PIUs with respect to timely implementation o f project activities and
      bi-annual monitoring o f the budgeted expenditures in accordance with annual activity
      plans.

       Section 1.02 (t) i s amendedto readas follows:

       "Subproject" means a Subproject to be carried out in a Participating State under Part C
       o f the Project, which satisfies the revised eligibility criteria in the Project
      ImplementationManual"

      The first paragraph o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amendedto read as follows:

     "The objective o f the Project i s to assist the Borrower to increase access to basic urban
     services inselectedcities."




                                              26

 (vi)     The table set forth in paragraph A.l o f Schedule 1to the Credit Agreement i s amended
          to read as follows:



Category                                Amount of the Credit          % of Expenditures to be
                                        Allocated (Expressed in SDR   Finance
                                        Equivalent)
(1) Civil works:                                                      100%of foreign expenditures
    (a) Federal                                  0                    and 95% o f local expenditures
    (b) AkwaIbom                        3,320,000
    (c) Bauchi                          3,510,000
    (d) Ebonyi                          3,520,000
    (e) Edo                             3,060,000
    (9 Jigawa                           1,960,000
    (8) Nassarawa                       2,730,000
    (h) own                             2,850,000

(2) Goods:                                                            100%
    (a) Federal                            50,000
    (b) AkwaIbom                           30,000
    (c) Bauchi                             30,000
    (d) Ebonyi                             30,000
    (e) Edo                                150,000
    (9 Jigawa                              160,000
    (g) Nassarawa                          750,000
                                           330,000
    (i) All Participating
    (h) own
                                        4,000,000
        States
(3) Training and Consultant                                           100%
    Services:
      (a) Federal                          320,000
      (b) Akwa Ibom                        690,000
      (c) Bauchi                           690,000
      (d) Ebonyi                           690,000
      (e) Edo                              640,000
      (9Jigawa                             610,000
      (8) Nassarawa                        710,000
                                           680,000
      0)(i) Participating States
      (h)Ondo
          o w
                                           500,000
         Other                                   0
:4) Subprojects                         52,754,260                    100%of foreign expenditures
                                                                     and 95% o f local expenditures




                                                27

(5)    Incremental Operating                                            100%
       costs:
       (a) Federal                             130,000
       (b) Akwa Ibom                           130,000
       (c) Bauchi                              130,000
       (d) Ebonyi                              130,000
       (e) Edo                                 130,000
       (0Jigawa                                130,000
       (g) Nassarawa                           130,000
       (h)ogun                                 130,000
       (i)OtherParticipatingStates                   0
       (j) Ondo                                100,000
(6)    Refundingof                           1,195,740                 Amount due pursuant to
       Project Preparation Advance                                      Section 2.02 (b) of this

(7)   Unallocated
Total




 (vii)    Paragraph2(c) o f Schedule 1to the Agreement i s amended to read as follows:

          "The term `Incremental Operating Costs' means the incremental operating costs arising
          under the Project on account o f maintenance o f vehicles, hel, equipment, office
          supplies,   utilities, consumables,     travel per diem and allowances,       travel and
          accommodation, advertising expenditures, bank charges, excluding salaries o f civil
          servants."

 (viii) The authorized allocation o f the Federal Special Account set forth in sub-paragraph
          1(a)(i) o fAnnex A to Schedule 1is increased from $20,000 to $50,000.

 (ix)     The objective o f the Project set forth inSchedule 2 is amendedto read as follows:

         "The objective o f the Project is to assist the Borrower to increase access to basic urban
         services ineight cities."

(x)     Part B o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement is amended to read as follows:

        "1. Carrying out an information communication campaign to inform communities in
            which the Project is to be carried out in accordance with revised eligibility criteria for
            infrastructure improvements.

        2. Implementation o f priority subprojects for infrastructure improvement in eight cities
            in Participating States that meet the technical and revised eligibility criteria as set
            forth inthe Project Implementation Manual."

(xi)    Part C o f Schedule 2 to the Agreement i s amended to read as follows:




                                                   28

        "1.   Provisiono f training to the staff o f LGs, ParticipatingStates, PIU, CTC members,
        the FPCU, as well as to contractors and consultants, in procurement, financial
        management, administration, contract management, organizational management, change
        management and leadership training, technical capacity, participatory and community
        based development, and monitoring and evaluation."

 (xii) PartDo fSchedule 2 to the Agreement is amendedto readas follows:

       "Part D: ImplementationSupport, Operation, MonitoringandEvaluation

       Provision o f assistance to: (i)
                                      the Participating States for the establishment o f PIUS;and
       (ii)theFederalCoordinationUnitundertheFMHUDforcoordinationoftheProject,
       consolidation o f financial and technical progress reports, technical audits, monitoring,
       andfacilitating an extemalimpact evaluation under the Project."

(xiii) Paragraph 1o f Schedule 4 to the Agreement i s amendedto read as follows:

       "1.    The Borrower shall maintain the FPCU in FMHUD, consisting o f three
       representatives from the FMHUD. The representatives shall be assigned to the FPCUfor
       the duration o fProject implementation and shall not be reassigned without prior notice to
       the Association. Additional staffmaybe assignedto the FPCUas the need arises."




                                               29

