Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3520 UNI
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization Support Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated August 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3520 UNI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
Part D of the Project will be carried out by Lagos State Water 
Corporation (LSWC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will relend to Lagos State a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement;  
(C)
Lagos State will in turn make the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by 
the Borrower available to LSWC under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association; 
(D)
the Borrower has obtained or intends to obtain from various donors 
(hereinafter called the Cofinanciers) grants and loans in an amount equivalent to 
approximately $25,000,000
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth or to be set forth in various agreements (hereinafter called the 
Cofinancing Agreements) entered into or to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Page  2
the Cofinanciers; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Association and LSWC 
(the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BPE" means the Bureau of Public Enterprises of the Borrower established 
pursuant to Public Enterprises (Privatization and Commercialization) Act  No. 28, 
1999;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means Categories 3 (a), 4 (a) and 5 (a) and 6 set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in respect of the BPE 
Special Account; Categories 1 (a), 3 (b) and 4 (b) set forth in the table in Part A.1 
of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement, in respect of the NCC Special Account; Categories 2 
(a), 3 (c) and 5 (b) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, in respect of the NERC Special Account; and Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 
(d) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, in respect of 
the LSWC Special Account.
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means, in respect of each Special Account, the 
expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to 
said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories.
(d)
"Emergency Power Program" means a program in which a power utility enters 
into agreements with private power producers to provide, transport, erect and connect 
generating units to the utility's power network within a short period, to operate and 
maintain these units and to sell power from these units to the utility for a specified 
period. 
(e)
"First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Lagos State pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
(f)
"FMF" means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of Finance;
(g)
"FMOC" means the Borrower’s Federal Ministry of Communications;
(h)
"Independent Power Producer" means a private power producer who develops 
power plants, operates and maintains the plants and sells power from these plants to 
an existing power utility or directly to power distribution companies or large power 
users;
(i)
"M-Tel" means Nigerian Mobile Telecommunications Ltd. established and 
operating pursuant to Companies and Allied Matters Act No. 59, 1990;
(j)
"Naira" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k)
"National Electricity Policy Statement" means the  statement  dated   June 1, 
2000, of the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies 
designed to strengthen its power sector, including a short term action plan for 
2001-02 to restore capacity and ensure minimal adequate service provision; 
(l)
"NCC" means the Nigerian Communications Commission, established and 
operating pursuant to Act No. 75, 1992;
(m)
"NCP" means the National Council on Privatization of the Borrower, 
established pursuant to Act No. 28, 1999;
(n)
"NERC" means the regulatory commission to be established by the Borrower 
for the regulation of the power sector;
(o)
"NITEL" means Nigerian Telecommunication Ltd. established and operating 
pursuant to Companies and Allied Matters Act LFN CAP. 59, 1990;
(p)
"Privatization Processes and Procedures Manual" means the manual 
satisfactory to the Association setting out: (i) guidelines and procedures for 
preparation, bidding and  divestiture of  Public  Enterprises in an efficient and  
transparent manner; (ii) authority of the Privatization Council; (iii) arrangements 
for sale of shares in privatized Public Enterprises; (iv) shareholding by strategic 
investors; and (v) authority of Sector Reform Implementation Committees;
(q)
"Privatization Program" means the program to be carried out by the 
Borrower under Public Enterprises (Privatization and Commercialization) Act No. 28 of 
1999;
(r)
"Project Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(s)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and LSWC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual satisfactory to the 
Association setting out: (i) an implementation plan for the Project; (ii) operations 
procedures for BPE; (iii) details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements 
under the Project; (iv) performance indicators for the Project; (v) operations 
procedures for the NCP; and (vi) such other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements as shall be required, and such term includes any schedules 
to the Project Implementation Manual; 
(u)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(v)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
November 18, 1999 and November 19, 1999 between the Borrower and the Association;
(w)
"Public Enterprise" means any enterprise in which the Borrower has an 
ownership interest and which has been selected for privatization under the 
Privatization Program;
(x)
"Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer" means a concession in which a project 
company under private ownership, or a joint venture with minority public 
participation, enters into an agreement with a power utility to rehabilitate power 
Page  4
generating units at a power station, to operate and maintain the generating units for 
the term of the concession, to sell the output of these units to the power utility or 
directly to power distribution companies or large power users, and to return the 
station at the end of the concession term; 
(y)
"Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Lagos State and LSWC, pursuant to the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(z)
"Special  Accounts"  means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 
1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to ninety million two hundred thousand  Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 90,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments  payable  on 
each June 1 and December 1 commencing December 1, 2011 and ending June 1, 2036.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 1, 2021 shall be one and 
Page  5
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry 
out Parts A, B (1), B (2), B (4), C (1), and C (3) through (6) of the Project through 
BPE; Parts B (3), B (5) and B (6) of the Project through NCC, and Part C (2) of the 
Project through NERC; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and management practices; and (ii) without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Credit 
Agreement, shall within the limits of its constitutional powers cause Lagos State and 
LSWC to carry out Part D of the Project and to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Lagos State and LSWC therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken 
all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Lagos State and LSWC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 (d) set forth in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to Lagos State under a first subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Lagos State, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall include annual interest at the rate 
referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement and repayment of principal in 
thirty-five years (including a ten-year grace period) and the assumption of the 
foreign exchange risk by LSWC.
(c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the First Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  6
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause BPE, NCC and LSWC each to: 
(a)
open and maintain an account in Naira in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in the 
respective amounts equivalent to $3,900,000, $600,000, and $500,000, to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the costs of the Project; 
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, on a quarterly basis, the 
amounts required to replenish the respective Project Accounts up to each of BPE's, 
NCC's and LSWC's contribution to the costs of the Project; and  
(d)
use the funds in the Project Accounts exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project, and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a 
financial management system, including records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of Parts A, B, and C of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out such Part of the Project.
(b) 
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2002, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds 
for the Project for the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report, and 
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously 
forecast implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
LSWC and Lagos State shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the Project Agreement and the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
respectively.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that LSWC and Lagos State will be able to perform their obligations under the Project 
Agreement and the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively.
Page  8
(c)
The Cofinanciers Agreements shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 2002 or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
Cofinanciers Agreements made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of 
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)
any such Cofinanciers Agreements shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (d) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a) 
the Borrower has caused BPE, NCC and LSWC to adopt the Financial 
Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) 
the Borrower has caused BPE, NCC and LSWC to establish Financial 
Management Systems acceptable to IDA, and to appoint external auditors for the Project 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  9
For the Borrower:
The Honorable Minister
Federal Ministry of Finance
Ahmadu Bello Way
Abuja, Nigeria
Cable address:
     FEDMINFIN
     Abuja
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the Abuja, Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
By /s/ Adamu Ciroma
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Lutz Woicke
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
   Amount of the
  Credit Allocated
   % of
   (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Supply and Installation:
Page  10
(a) Under Part B (6) of
4,900,000
100% of foreign   
the Project
expenditures; 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost); and
40% of local
(b) Under Part D (2) 
4,200,000
expenditures for other
the Project
items procured locally
(2)
Goods:
90%
(a) Under Part C (2) 
  600,000
of the Project
(b) Under Part D
1,800,000
of the Project
(3)
Consultants’
100%
services:
(a) Under Parts A, B (1),    54,000,000
B (2), B (4), C (1), 
C (3)-(6) of the Project
(b) Under Parts B (3), B (5)
3,500,000
and B(6) of the Project
(c) Under Part C (2) 
  800,000
of the Project
(d) Under Part D 
2,400,000
of the Project
(4)
Training and Study Tours:
100%
(a) Under Parts A, B (1),
2,700,000
B (2), B (4), C (1), 
C (3)-(6) of the Project
(b) Under Parts B (3), B (5)
1,200,000
and B(6) of the Project
(5)
Incremental Operating
Costs
(a) Under Part A of the
2,800,000
80% in 2001 
Project
70% in 2002
60% in 2003
50% in 2004
40% in 2005
and thereafter
(b) Under Part C (2)
1,200,000
90% in 2001-3 
of the Project
70% in 2004
and thereafter
 (6)
Refunding
1,580,000
Amount due 
of Project
pursuant to
Preparation 
Section 2.02 (b)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
8,520,000
TOTAL
     90,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
Page  11
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental operating 
costs arising under Parts A and C 2) of the Project on account of maintenance of 
equipment and vehicles, fuel, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diem 
and allowances, travel and accommodation, office rental, but excluding salaries of 
civil servants.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that  withdrawals, in an  aggregate amount  not  exceeding  the  equivalent  of 
SDR 9,020,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 1, 2000;
(b) 
under Categories 3 (a), 4 (a) and 5 (a) until: (i) BPE has adopted its 
Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii) BPE has adopted the Privatization Process and Procedures Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; (iii) BPE has furnished a work plan for 
Part A of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, covering the period June 30, 
2001 through December 31, 2002; and (iv) BPE has opened its respective Project Account 
and deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(c) 
under Categories 1 (a), 3 (b) and 4 (b) until: (i) NCC has adopted its 
Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii) NCC has furnished a work plan for Part B of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association, covering the period June 30, 2001 through December 31, 2002; (iii) NCC 
has opened its respective Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(d)
under Categories 2 (a), 3 (c) and 5 (b) until: (i) the NERC has been 
established with staffing and institutional structure satisfactory to the Association 
pursuant to Part C (2) of the Project, (ii) the NERC has adopted the Financial 
Procedures Manual and its respective Project Implementation Manual, each in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(e) 
under Categories 1 (b), 2 (b) and 3 (d), until (i) the First Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and Lagos State, (ii) the 
Second Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been executed on behalf of Lagos State and 
LSWC, (iii) the Association has received an opinion pursuant to Section 12.02(b) of 
the General Conditions: that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by LSWC and is legally binding upon LSWC in accordance with its terms; that 
the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and Lagos State and is legally binding upon the Borrower and Lagos State in 
accordance with its terms; and that the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by Lagos State and LSWC and is legally binding upon Lagos State 
and LSWC in accordance with its terms; (iv) LSWC has adopted its Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; (v) LSWC 
has furnished a work plan for Part D of the Project, satisfactory to the Association, 
covering the period June 30, 2001 through December 31, 2002, and (vi) LSWC has opened 
its respective Project Account and deposited therein the initial deposit referred to 
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (b) services of consulting firms under contracts 
not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, (c) services of individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, (d) training and study tours; and (e) 
Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall cause four separate special deposit accounts to be opened and 
maintained in US Dollars: the BPE Special Account, the NCC Special Account, the NERC 
Special Account, and the LSWC Special Account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
Page  12
deposited into said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals  shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.  
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement. 
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
Page  13
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means:  
(i)
in respect of the BPE Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in 
respect of amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
(ii)
in respect of the NCC Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $500,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,200,000. 
(iii)
in respect of the NERC Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; 
provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $125,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
amounts allocated to said Categories, shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 400,000; and 
(iv)
in respect of the LSWC Special Account, an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Page  14
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account’s 
Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000 in respect of 
the BPE Special Account; $1,500,000 in respect of the NCC Special Account, $500,000 in 
respect of the NERC Special Account, and $2,000,000 in respect of the LSWC Special 
Account. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce the Borrower’s role in 
commercial activities through assisting the Borrower to carry out its Privatization 
Program; (ii) reduce the public deficit caused by the Borrower’s support for Public 
Enterprises; and (iii) improve the supply and quality of telecommunications and other 
infrastructure, through creating an enabling regulatory environment for private sector 
participation and competition.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Privatization Program
1.
The carrying out of the Privatization Program through the preparation and 
execution of divestiture transactions for about one hundred Public Enterprises. 
2.
The carrying out of studies to prepare evaluations, design compensation and 
severance policies, analyze business environments, and establish coherent policies to 
ensure effective implementation of the Privatization Program. 
Page  15
3.
Strengthening of the Borrower’s capacity to carry out the Privatization Program 
through provision of technical advisory services, training and study tours for NCP, 
BPE and to other staff of the Borrower involved in the Privatization Program. 
4.
The carrying out of a public awareness and stakeholder communication program to 
develop consensus for reform among the Borrower’s policymakers and civil society, and 
improve the general public’s understanding and acceptance of the objectives and 
benefits of the Privatization Program. 
5.
The carrying out of a review of the options for the establishment of a legal and 
institutional framework for competition policy in the Borrower’s economy, including in 
private sector markets for the provision of infrastructure and utilities services. 
6.
Preparation of drafts of the laws and regulations required to give effect to 
recommendations of the review carried out under Part A.5 of the Project.
Part B:
Telecommunications Sector Reform
1.
Preparation and adoption of a new national policy on telecommunications for 
privatization, competition, licensing of new entry and regulation of the 
telecommunications sector, through provision of advisory and consulting services.
2.
Review, development and implementation of legislation to establish a detailed 
regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector, preparation of implementing 
rules and regulations, and preparation of licenses.
3.
Institutional strengthening of NCC, including design of an organizational 
structure, reorganization of NCC, development of business plans, work plans and 
budgets, development of a financing plan and establishment of financial controls, 
installation of a management information system, preparation of a human resources 
development and training plan, and design of dispute resolution, interconnection, 
tariff regulation, licensing and other systems for NCC’s operations.
4.
Privatization of NITEL and M-Tel, through provision of advisory and consulting 
services.
5.
Development of a rural telecommunication strategy and design and implementation 
of a rural demonstration project
6.
Carrying out of a radio-spectrum management study, and acquisition, installation 
and putting into operation of new radio-spectrum monitoring equipment systems.
Part C:
Power Sector Reform
1.
Establishment of a new policy and regulatory framework for the power sector.
2.
Establishment of the NERC as an autonomous regulatory agency, preparation of 
implementing rules and regulations, and support for commencement of operation by NERC.
3.
Restructuring of NEPA to establish separate generation, transmission, 
distribution, and system control entities, and design of wholesale market operations, 
through the provision of advisory and consulting services.
4.
Privatization of power generation and distribution entities, including 
promulgation of service quality standards for transmission and distribution, review of 
compliance with environmental standards, and drafting of concession contracts and 
share purchase agreements, through provision of advisory and consulting services.
5.
Development of a strategy to extend the national power grid to towns and rural 
communities, and development of a rural electrification policy for non-grid 
electricity supply.
6.
Strengthening power generation by contracting out existing and new plants to 
private operators under "Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer", emergency power program and 
similar arrangements, based upon competitive bidding, through the provision of 
advisory and consulting services.
Part D:
Lagos Water Private Sector Participation
1.
Private sector participation in the operation of LSWC, including strategic 
review of the policies and regulatory framework for the urban water sector, due 
diligence, financial and legal restructuring, asset valuation of LSWC, and carrying 
Page  16
out a labor program, through provision of advisory and consulting services.
2.
Acquisition, installation and operation of equipment for repair of essential 
plant, and provision of essential services, to enable continued production of potable 
water, including improvement of the customer database, billing and collections.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country"  shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed 1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Direct Contracting
Contracts for spare parts and accessories under Part D of the Project which are 
Page  17
of a proprietary nature and costing $6,500,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services meeting the requirements of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured using the quality based selection method.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services meeting the requirements of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines may be procured through consultants’ qualification selection method.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
Page  18
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, single-source 
selection, and training, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause BPE to furnish to the Association by December 31, 2001, 
guidelines for the preparation of environmental management plans, satisfactory to the 
Association, which shall provide for measures to mitigate, enhance, and monitor any 
adverse environmental and social impacts during divestiture of Public Enterprises, and 
institutional measures to be taken to eliminate, offset them, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels, in accordance with the report dated January, 2001 concerning 
existing conditions at and around certain sites of Public Enterprises.
2.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual, and shall not, except as the Association may 
otherwise agree, amend or waive any provision thereof. 
3.
(a)
The Borrower shall cause BPE to carry out each divestiture of a Public 
Enterprise in accordance with the Privatization Process and Procedures Manual, the 
guidelines for the compensation and severance of public enterprise employees, and the 
guidelines for the preparation of environmental management plans.
(b)
The Borrower shall continue to maintain: 
(i)
its privatization proceeds account in a form acceptable to the 
Page  19
Association; and 
(ii)
BPE as the administrator of said account.
(c)
The Borrower shall cause BPE to: 
(i)
have the account referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph 
audited each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.  
4. 
(a)
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall by 
September 30, 2001, present to the National Assembly, a draft telecommunications law, 
taking the Association’s comments into account.
(b)
by December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall cause BPE to: (i) complete the  
valuation  of  the  assets  and  liabilities, and  evaluation  of  NITEL  and  M-TEL, 
(ii) prepare the strategy for privatization and determined the modality for sale, 
(iii) invite firms to prequalify, (iv) carry out the prequalification exercise and 
announced the prequalified   bidders,   (v)   invite   the  prequalified  bidders   to   
submit   proposals,  (vi) announce in the press the results of financial proposals 
submitted by bidders, and (vii) select the winning bid, all in accordance with the 
Privatization Process and Procedures Manual; 
(c)
by June 30, 2002 the Borrower shall cause NCC to award the contract for 
installation of a new radio spectrum management system pursuant to Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(d)
by May 31, 2002, the Borrower shall facilitate NCC's award of the 
contract for implementation of the rural demonstration project pursuant to Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.
For the purposes of Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
present to the National Assembly for approval, a draft electricity law, 
taking the Association’s comments into account.
(b)
within three months after enactment of the electricity law, establish a 
Special Purpose Entity inter alia to assume NEPA’s power purchase obligations to 
private producers, and provide adequate financing therefor.
(c)
without prejudice to existing written agreements, cause NEPA to refrain 
from entering into escrow arrangements for the new purchase of power from private 
operators.
(d)
without prejudice to existing written agreements, refrain from providing 
new guarantees for the payment obligations of state-owned entities under agreements to 
purchase power from privately owned or operated power generators or suppliers unless 
such payment obligations are adequately funded.
6.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
Page  20
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
