Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3520 UNI
Project Agreement
(Privatization Support Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
LAGOS STATE WATER CORPORATION
Dated August 23, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3520 UNI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and LAGOS STATE WATER CORPORATION (LSWC).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Federal Republic of Nigeria (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association 
has agreed to make available to the Borrower a portion of the Credit allocated to Part 
D of the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on conditions that LSWC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a first subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Lagos State of Nigeria (Lagos State), a portion of the proceeds of the 
credit allocated to Part D of the Project under the Development Credit Agreement will 
be made available to Lagos State under the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement  and Lagos 
State will in turn make such proceeds available to LSWC on the terms and conditions 
set forth in a second subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between Lagos State 
and LSWC; and
WHEREAS LSWC, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a)  LSWC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry  out  Part D of the  Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and LSWC shall otherwise agree, LSWC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. LSWC shall establish and thereafter maintain a counterpart fund account 
at a commercial bank into which contributions to be paid by Lagos State pursuant to 
Section 2.06 (b) of the Lagos State Agreement shall be deposited. The said account 
shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) LSWC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part D of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, LSWC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and LSWC, a plan for the future 
operation of Part D of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with LSWC on said plan.
Section 2.05. LSWC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Second 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LSWC 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) LSWC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part D of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Second Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
LSWC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, the 
Page  3
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by LSWC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LSWC
Section 3.01. LSWC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utilities 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. LSWC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. LSWC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a)  LSWC shall establish not later than effectiveness and thereafter 
maintain a  financial  management  system, including  records  and  accounts, and 
prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Part D of the Project.
(b)
LSWC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with internationally 
accepted auditing standards satisfactory to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors,  of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may request.
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, LSWC shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) 
of said Section 4.01  in order to enable LSWC, not later than December 31,  2002, or 
such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project,  both  cumulatively  and  for  the  period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
Page  4
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
LSWC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall promptly 
notify LSWC and Lagos State thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For LSWC
The Chief Executive Officer
Lagos State Water Corporation
P.O. Box 555
Lagos, Nigeria
Cable address:
Telex:
LASWATER
27386 LASWAC NG
Ijora, Lagos
Page  5
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of LSWC may be 
taken or executed by the Chief Executive Officer or such other person or persons as 
LSWC shall designate in writing, and LSWC shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Abuja, Nigeria, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Peter Lutz Woicke
Regional Vice President
Africa
LAGOS STATE WATER CORPORATION
By /s/ Olumuyiwa O. Coker
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1. 
(a)  
LSWC shall within its Privatization Department continue to maintain a 
procurement unit which shall report directly to LSWC's Chief Executive Officer.  LSWC 
shall appoint a procurement specialist in accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to 
the Credit Agreement with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association. 
(b)  
LSWC shall as part of its training program and in agreement with the 
Association from time to time assign a sufficient number of appropriately qualified 
staff to work with consultants and contractors employed on the Project.
(c)  
LSWC shall, until the completion of the Project, discuss with Lagos State 
and the Association its future organization, staffing and training plans and shall 
have due regard to the comments of Lagos State and the Association on such 
organization, staffing and training plans.
2.
LSWC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2003, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
Page  6
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
