                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001418



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-35200)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 90.2 MILLION
                      (US$ 114.29 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

                                     FOR A

                      PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT PROJECT



                                February 28, 2011




Finance and Private Sector Development Department
West/Central Africa Department
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 2010)
                            Currency Unit = Naira

                              N 1 = US$0.01
                              US$1 = N152.45

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 to December 31


                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BER       Borrower's Evaluation Report
BPE       Bureau of Public Enterprises
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CPU       Central Procurement Unit
DISCO     (Power) Distribution Company
EMCAP     Economic Management Capacity Credit
EMT       Economic Management Team
EPIC      Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee
EPSRA     Electric Power Sector Reform Act
FCTWB     Federal Capital Territory Water Board
FGN       Federal Government of Nigeria
FMOT      Federal Ministry of Transport
GENCO     (Power) Generation Company
ICRC      Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission
IFC       International Financial Corporation
IPP       Independent Power Producer
LSWC      Lagos State Water Corporation
MDA       Ministries, Departments and Agencies
MOC       Ministry of Communications
MTR       Midterm Review
MYTO      Multi-Year Tariff Order
NASS      National Assembly
NCC       Nigerian Communications Commission
NCP       National Commission for Privatization
NEEDS     National Economic Empowerment and Development Strategy
NEEP      National Electric Power Policy
NEGIP     Nigeria Electricity and Gas Improvement Project
NEPA      National Electric Power Authority
NTP       National Telecommunications Policy
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PE        Public Enterprises
PHCN      Power Holding Company of Nigeria
PPP       Public Private Partnership
PSP       Privatization Support Project
SC        Successor Company
SME       Small and Medium Enterprise
TRANSCO   (Power) Transmission Company
TTL       Task Team Leader
UA     Universal Access
UAF    Universal Access Fund
USPF   Universal Service Provision Fund




                      Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                    Country Director: Onno Ruhl
                     Sector Manager: Paul Noumba Um
                Project Team Leader: Peter Mousley
                   ICR Team Leader: Peter Mousley
                ICR Primary Author: Zachary Kaplan
                                                       NIGERIA
                                             Privatization Support Project



                                                            CONTENTS
Data Sheet


  A.         Basic Information ..............................................................................................................i
  B.         Key Dates ..........................................................................................................................i
  C.         Ratings Summary ..............................................................................................................i
  D.         Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................. ii
  E.         Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................ ii
  F.         Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... iii
  G.         Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... xiii
  H.         Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................... xiii
  I.          Disbursement Profile ....................................................................................................xiv


   1.    Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.................................................... 1
   2.    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................... 7
   3.    Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................... 13
   4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23
   5.    Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .......................................................... 24
   6.    Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................ 27
   7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ............... 28
   
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 30
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 32
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 41
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 43
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 44
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 46
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 48
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 49
  Annex 10. Additional Project Performance Indicators ............................................................. 51
  Nigeria Map .............................................................................................................................. 55
A. Basic Information
                                                                            PRIVATIZATION
Country:                Nigeria                   Project Name:
                                                                            SUPPORT PROJECT
Project ID:             P070293                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-35200
ICR Date:               02/28/2011                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            THE FEDERAL
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF
                                                                            NIGERIA
Original Total
                        XDR 90.2M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 74.5M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 74.5M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Lagos State Water Corporation
 Bureau of Public Enterprises
 Federal Ministry of Finance
 Nigerian Communications Commission
 nigerian electricity regulatory commission
 Federal Capital Territory Water Board
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date                Process           Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/25/2000      Effectiveness:            11/21/2001        11/21/2001
Appraisal:             11/15/2000      Restructuring(s):                           06/28/2005
Approval:              06/14/2001      Mid-term Review:                            02/13/2004
                                       Closing:                  12/31/2006        12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Substantial
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower       Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Moderately Satisfactory



                                                  i
                                                   Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      78                  23
Law and justice                                                         1                     1
Power                                                                  11                  17
Telecommunications                                                                         36
Water supply                                                           10                  23


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regulation and competition policy                                      50                  23
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                  50                  77

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:           Onno Ruhl                            Mark D. Tomlinson
Sector Manager:              Paul Noumba Um                      Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:         Peter J. Mousley                    Paul Ballard
ICR Team Leader:             Peter J. Mousley
ICR Primary Author:         Zachary A. Kaplan


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objectives were:


                                                ii
  (i) support transparent and effective implementation of the Federal Government of
Nigeria#s privatization program, as a basis for fostering accelerated economic growth;
  (ii) [through] expanded private investment and improved efficiency in the productive
sectors, and in infrastructure;
  (iii) create an enabling environment for private sector participation and competition in
infrastructure services, notably in telecommunications and electric power.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives were not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
                Expanded private sector investment and Employment:
Indicator 1 :
                (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                                            About 100 public                    165 privatizations
                                            enterprises in      Privatization taken to the point of
Value                                       agriculture,        of 75 public sale with 109
quantitative or 600 PEs at federal level. services and          enterprises as transactions
Qualitative)                                infrastructure will specified in    completed
                                            be transferred to the MTR           generating US$1.89
                                            private ownership                   billion.
Date achieved 12/16/2002                    06/28/2005          04/06/2004      12/05/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved
achievement)
                Increased private participation and efficiency in infrastructure:
Indicator 2 :
                (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                                                                                NITEL had been
                                            NITEL will be
                                                                                privatized with
                                            privatized and
                                                                                FGN. FGN
                                            competition will
                                                                                cancelled the sale
                                            be introduced from
                                                                                after successful
                                            2001. NEPA will
                No private sector                                               company failed to
Value                                       be restructured by
                involvement in                                                  fulfill post
quantitative or                             02. Some Gencos
                telecommunications and                                          privatization
Qualitative)                                concessioned'01-
                power.                                                          commitments. 16
                                            02 - Other sold'03-
                                                                                unified access
                                            06; Discos
                                                                                service licenses and
                                            privatized'03-04;
                                                                                4 digital mobile
                                            tender for PPP of
                                                                                licenses have been
                                            LSWC end'01.
                                                                                issued.
Date achieved 12/16/2002                    06/28/2005                          12/31/2009
Comments        Mostly Achieved: Electricity and Telecommunications legal and regulatory
(incl. %        initiatives completed after delay at Parliament. Power Sector Reform was re-
achievement) launched in October'10 with the FGN issuance of a Policy Statement.


                                                iii
                  Creation of pro-competitive and transparent markets and regulatory frameworks
Indicator 3 :     in infrastructure.
                  (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                                              FGN will create
                  Baseline constituted        pro-competitive
                  existing                    regulatory
                  telecommunications and frameworks; FGN                            Electricity Power
                  electricity sector          will present new                      Sector Reform
                  legislation that did not    Tele-                                 (EPSR) and
Value
                  provide for the market      communications                        Telecommunication
quantitative or
                  liberalization that         and electricity                       s bills enacted.
Qualitative)
                  Government Policy           laws for approval                     NCC and NERC
                  targeted. There was no      in 2001; NCC will                     operational and
                  regulator in electricity    extend its                            performing.
                  sector; NCC legistation mandate; mew
                  outdated.                   power agency
                                              established.
Date achieved     12/16/2002                  06/28/2005                            12/05/2008
Comments          NCC and NERC Bills passed into law and regulatory agencies established and
(incl. %          operating. Additional legislative actions that impact the continuing reform needs
achievement)      in key infrastructure sectors including transport (ports, rail, road, inland water
                  Increase Basic Infrastructure and Utilities Services in rural and urban areas.
Indicator 4 :
                  (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                                                                                    Teledensity target
                                                                                    acheived; 17 LGAs
                                              1 line per 100
                                                                                    and 257
                                              inhabitants by
                                                                                    communities with
                                              2003; double
                                                                                    access; LSWC
                                              number of villages
                  Teledensity levels at                                             declined from 377
                                              with telecom
                  0.3%, water production                                            to 200 ML/day;
Value                                         access; electric
                  capacity estimated at 320                                         Rate collections
quantitative or                               power meter
                  MLD, >80% of NEPA                                                 from N30 million to
Qualitative)                                  numbers by 1
                  5888 MW capacity                                                  N60 million
                                              million; LSWG
                  inoperative.                                                      monthly; FCTWB
                                              production double
                                                                                    add 33000 new
                                              by 2005 and
                                                                                    house connections
                                              collection increase
                                                                                    with over 100000
                                              by 50%
                                                                                    new people with
                                                                                    access
Date achieved     12/16/2002                  06/28/2005                            06/17/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Acheived fully for telecoms, partially for LSWC, and unsuccessful for NEPA.
achievement)
                Reduced deficit for PEs, particularly in infrastructure
Indicator 5 :
                (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                Estimated $4.5billion       No agreement of                US$1.89 billion in
Value           invested by FGN in PEs specific targets                    privatization
quantitative or annually over the two       established.                   proceeds to the
Qualitative)    decades prior to the        Assessment of                  FGN reflects the
                launch of the privatization project subvention             approximate


                                                  iv
               program.                  savings could not                 potential fiscal
                                         be adequately                     savings as a result
                                         completed.                        of the privatization
                                         Project Team                      program.
                                         advised to drop
                                         this measure                      Corporate tax
                                         during CPPR                       receipts for these
                                         discussions in                    companies reflects
                                         2008.                             additional revenues
                                                                           since privatization
                                                                           an
Date achieved 12/16/2002                  06/28/2005                       12/05/2008
Comments
              As agreed with the FGN and the country management unit efforts to report
(incl. %
              against this indicator was stopped
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                            Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                Highly motivated and well trained BPE Staff with improved skills set and
Indicator 1 : institutionally strenghtened NCC with well-trained staff. (Value quantitative or
                Qualitative)
                                                                           Broad-based BPE
                                                                           training included a
                                                                           Strategic
                                         80% of BPE Staff
                                                                           Management
                                         to have attended
                                                                           Training Program
                                         approved training
                                                                           that targeted all
                                         courses.
                                                                           senior management
Value                                    Establishment of
                                                                           (Deputy Director
(quantitative   No baseline              NERC and NCC
                                                                           and above) and
or Qualitative)                          as sector
                                                                           other key
                                         regulators with
                                                                           stakeholders
                                         improvements in
                                                                           (legislature,
                                         service outreach
                                                                           Ministries).
                                         and quality.
                                                                           NCC training of
                                                                           200 staff
                                                                           completed.
Date achieved 12/16/2002                 12/16/2002                        12/15/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/02/2001        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    05/17/2002        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.01
  3    12/30/2002        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    5.82
  4    05/29/2003        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    8.61
  5    11/26/2003        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                  10.83
  6    05/26/2004        Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                  19.17
  7    06/29/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   22.13
  8    12/14/2004        Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   27.16
  9    04/07/2005        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            30.11
 10    07/26/2005        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            34.26
                                                        Moderately
 11    12/28/2005        Satisfactory                                                 43.85
                                                      Unsatisfactory
 12    04/26/2006        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            47.58
 13    12/21/2006        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            57.56
 14    06/27/2007        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            67.02
 15    12/28/2007        Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            75.94
                                                        Moderately
 16    06/18/2008   Moderately Satisfactory                                           78.36
                                                      Unsatisfactory
 17    12/25/2008   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            87.29
 18    06/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            93.06
 19    12/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory           101.75


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 06/28/2005               S     MU           33.71




                                              vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
      1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.       Country and Sector Background: During the 1970s and 1980s, Nigeria had
developed a large public enterprise sector covering a broad spectrum of economic
activities. These covered large basic industries, manufacturing, agriculture, services,
public utilities and infrastructure. They included telecommunications, power, steel,
petrochemicals, fertilizer, vehicle assembly, banks, insurance and hotels.

2.       At appraisal, there were about 600 public enterprises (PEs) at the federal level
and about 900 smaller PEs at the state and local levels. The estimated 1,500 enterprises
accounted for about 30-40 percent of aggregate fixed capital investment and about 50-60
percent of formal sector employment. It was estimated that successive Nigerian
governments invested over two decades about Naira 800 billion (approximately US$90
billion equivalent) in the PE sector, which remained one of the largest in Africa. The
returns on these large investments were generally poor, and in a number of cases
negative. The presence of non-performing PEs - some of which were mothballed, notably
in the fertilizer, aluminum smelting, pulp and paper, sugar and steel industries - had
effectively impeded entry by potentially more efficient private operators.

3.      In electric power, telecommunications, ports, water supply and other sectors, the
major inefficiencies of PEs added substantially to the costs of production of private firms.
The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA)'s unreliable power supply was estimated
to impose an additional cost of around US$1 billion annually on the economy. Only 12
percent of Nigerians had metered access to electricity (many others had access through
illegal connections). Telephone coverage was only three telephone lines per 1,000
persons with most of these lines confined to the major urban centers, one of the lowest
tele-densities in the world. With escalating demand for more reliable and affordable
services, the general public had stepped up its pressure for efficient public services that
were more responsive to consumers. In Lagos State, access to piped potable water was
limited to less than 30 percent of the population. The water utility, Lagos State Water
Corporation (LSWC), had chronic lack of maintenance and insufficient financial
resources for emergency repairs.

4.      The main sector issues were: (a) poor performance of public enterprises, which
dominated major sectors of the economy and were a drag on economic growth,
productivity, investment and in case of core infrastructure resulted in extremely poor
service provision ­ across power, transport and telecommunications; (b) inadequate
sector policy and regulatory frameworks which impeded competition, discouraged private
entry and private investment; (c) excessive bureaucratic controls and government
intervention; (d) weak political will and institutional capacity to implement reform.

5.      Government Strategy: Faced with continuing poor performance of PEs and
limited managerial capacity, the government strategy was to undertake a three-phase
privatization program aimed at improving services and efficiency, promoting
transparency and realizing results in the medium-term. The Federal Government of
Nigeria (FGN) had decided to transform its role from owner, financier and operator of
PEs to one of policy-maker and, where necessary, regulator for the provision of public


                                             1
services. This was formalized in a comprehensive Privatization Program that was given
legal force through the 1999 Public Enterprises (Privatization and Commercialization)
Act which also established the high level and politically powerful National Council on
Privatization (NCP) and the implementation agency ­ Bureau of Public Enterprises
(BPE). This was further reinforced by the role accorded to the BPE in the National
Electricity Act to lead the restructuring of NEPA.

6.      Sector issues addressed by the project: The Privatization Support Project (PSP)
addressed key constraints in the PE sector by supporting capacity building (legal and
regulatory as well as related institution building) and implementation for the FGN's PE
privatization program through the financing of the key advisory expertise required for the
preparation and market placement of privatization\commercialization transactions. This
included a particular focus on reforms in three infrastructure sectors ­
telecommunications, electric power and urban water.

7.       Rationale for Bank assistance: The PSP was one of the first generation of
projects approved by the Bank after the 1999 elections. The initial Bank Strategy, set out
in a Interim Country Strategy Note approved in May 2001 had, as a primary objective to
help the FGN build capacity to manage its resources effectively and implement policies
that will attract private investment to enhance economic efficiency and growth. The
strategy's key elements included technical assistance to provide advisory services for
FGN's privatization program, including divestiture of PEs in the major infrastructure
sectors, notably telecommunications and power. The project was consistent with the
Bank's assessment of priority assistance needs. It aimed to complement the Economic
Management Capacity Credit (EMCAP) which was assisting the FGN in strengthening
key aspects of economic management.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      The project's development objectives were: (i) to support transparent and
effective implementation of the FGN's privatization program, as a basis for fostering
accelerated economic growth, through expanded private investment and improved
efficiency in the productive sectors, and in infrastructure; and (ii) to create an enabling
environment for private sector participation and competition in infrastructure services,
notably in telecommunications and electric power. Key Indicators were:

         Expanded private investment productivity and employment
         Increased private participation and efficiency in infrastructure
         Creation of pro-competitive and transparent markets and regulatory frameworks
         in infrastructure
         Increased basic infrastructure and utilities services in rural and urban areas
         Reduced public deficit for PEs, notably in infrastructure.

9.      The statement of PDO and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) varied within the
PAD (reference Section A2 of PAD, pages 2-3 and Annex 1 pages 37-41) and in
comparison to the DCA (reference Schedule 2, pages 25-27). While the MTR did
involve a restructuring of project components, there were no changes to KPIs with the
exception of the number of targeted privatizations (down from "around 100" to seventy-
five). As the privatization reform progressed, the Bank team adapted the project in terms



                                            2
of activities ­ keeping it firmly in line with PDO and KPI objectives. At the time of the
first extension in 2006, consideration was given to revising KPIs to eliminate the
duplication\confusion across the key project documents, but not pursued for two reasons.
First, changes to KPIs as the project was nearing its closing date were considered
inappropriate. Second the KPIs detailed in Section 2A of the PAD had clear resonance
and traction with the clients and provided not just "well-owned" targets, but allowed for
adjustments in the actual measures used to assess progress towards these KPIs that
enabled the project to remain relevant and effective during a period of considerable
reform momentum. This is further emphasized in the detailed quarterly progress reports
that the different project executing agents provided over the 2006-2009 extension phase
of the project. Data on progress against additional KPIs as stated in Annex I of the PAD
are discussed in Annex 10.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
        Indicators, and reasons/justification

10.     The objectives were not revised.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

The expected beneficiaries of the project included:

11.     Urban and rural consumers: The privatization of PEs in the power,
telecommunication and urban water sector would initially improve access and
affordability for urban consumers. The rural access programs in electric power and
telecommunications supported by the project would put in place affordable private and
community supply in rural areas.

12.     Small and medium enterprises (SMEs): Improved infrastructure would assist
SMEs that were particularly constrained by poor infrastructure and particularly power
services. Recent diagnostic work indicated that over 20% of many Nigerian enterprise
investments went to financing alternative power sources (namely generators). In the
recent 2008 Investment Climate Assessments, it was determined that infrastructure
related costs amounted to 16% of sales for a Nigerian firm versus 2% for the South
African, 5% for Chinese and 10% for Indian firm. This represents a significant
competitive disadvantage.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

13.     The project consisted of six components as follows:

Component 1: General Privatization Support - US$43.20 million

14.      The project supported the FGN's programs for sector reform and privatization
including in two major infrastructure sectors - telecommunications and power. It also
financed the preparation and execution of PE divestiture transactions in the other sectors,
led by the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE).




                                            3
Component 2: BPE Institutional Support - US$57.21 million

15.     The project financed and strengthened the Government institutions responsible
for undertaking the privatization program and sector reforms. It provided BPE with
technical advisory support including: (a) long-term international advisors; (b) a "core
team" of Nigerian professionals; (c) an international expert team on privatization
techniques; (d) in the electric power sector, it would fund the full-time technical team to
be recruited to support Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee (EPIC).

Component 3: Privatization Consensus Building - US$ 66.47 million

16.      This component aimed to build consensus among the new members of the
legislature and the public at large due to the sometimes conflicting views and
understanding of the effects of the privatization program on the economy. Activities
envisioned included: (i) communications and public relations campaign at home and
abroad to explain and publicize the reforms with the help of specialist advisors; (ii)
workshops and seminars in Nigeria on the main issues confronting reform, organized
under the auspices of National Commission for Privatization (NCP) and the respective
line ministries for these sectors; (iii) study tours for Nigerian policymakers and
stakeholders to countries that have implemented similar reforms.

Component 4: Telecommunication Sector Reform - US$18.49 million

17.     Activities under this component were separated into the following sub-
components:
    Development of National Policy on Telecommunication: Preparing a new
   National Telecommunications Policy (NTP) that would replace the policy published
   in October 1999.
    Legal and Regulatory Reform and New Entry: (a) reviewing existing legislation
   and preparation of new telecommunication and related secondary legislation; (b)
   preparing new licenses for NITEL and other service providers; and (c) preparing new
   and amendment of existing regulatory instruments, such as frequency management,
   numbering plan, and tariff and interconnection regulations.
    Institutional Strengthening of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC:
   (a) developing an institutional strengthening plan; (b) preparing and implementing a
   human resources development and training plan for NCC; and (c) financing the
   procurement of a financial management system.
    Privatization of NITEL: (a) appointing technical and financial audit consultants to
   carry out the necessary due-diligence and financial audit of NITEL; (b) hiring
   privatization advisers (financial and legal) to assist in the sale process; and (c)
   marketing and promoting the program.
    Rural and Universal Access: (a) supporting consultants that would be appointed
   to assist TSRIC's universal access subcommittee in developing a universal access
   strategy and in defining the optimal institutional arrangements to implement the
   strategy; (b) hiring consultants to assist in identifying viable strategic options and
   operational schemes for the provision of the necessary infrastructure and services;
   and (c) providing seed investment for the demonstration projects.
    Radio-spectrum Management: (a) radio-spectrum monitoring modernization plan
   to develop institutional capacity; (b) definition of future requirements, and support
   for the procurement of the needed equipment and systems; and (c) procurement and


                                            4
      operationalization of NCC's part of the radio-spectrum allocation and monitoring
      system.

Component 5: Power Sector Reform - US$25.23 million

18.      Activities under this component were separated into the following sub-
components:
     Development of National Power Policy: The FGN had approved a policy
    statement that set out the new institutional arrangements for introducing competition
    and an appropriate regulatory framework to the power sector. Preparation of this
    statement was supported by consultancy services under the PPF for the PSP.
     Legal and Regulatory Framework for the Power Market: Financing consultants
    to carry out a cost-of-service study, a quality of service study and a tariff strategy
    study, and developing key regulations covering tariffs, etc., and also providing
    financial support to the regulatory agency to cover its start-up expenses.
     Corporate Restructuring of NEPA for setting up corporate entities, and design
    and formation of the new power market: Retaining the services of advisors to assist
    with restructuring the present vertically integrated structure of power supply by
    breaking up NEPA's corporate functions into a number of entities, and the design and
    formation of the new wholesale market for power.
     Privatization of entities formed from NEPA: Retaining the services of: (i)
    financial/lead privatization advisors to develop, prepare and execute a strategy for the
    privatization of the generation and distribution entities formed from the unbundling
    of NEPA; (ii) legal advisors for the privatization process; and (iii)
    technical/environmental consultants.
     Support for power generation concessions: Funding for consulting services for
    the concessioning of some of NEPA's hydropower stations, as well as for expert
    support for procuring and negotiating contracts with independent power producers
    (IPPs).
     Increasing access to power supply from non-grid sources in both rural and urban
    area: Financing the services of consultants and specialists in rural and non-grid
    electricity supply and marketing to help examine these issues and develop a strategy
    for increasing access to electricity.

Component 6: Lagos State Water Corporation - Restructuring and Private Sector
Participation - US$14.36 million

19.      This component supported the financing of: (i) emergency action plans identified
as essential to support LSWC prior to the introduction of a private sector participation
solution through a privatization transaction to be led by International Financial
Corporation (IFC) as the principal privatization transaction advisor; and (ii) a part of the
specialist consultant costs for the privatization transaction.

1.6      Revised Components and Project Re-Structuring

20.    First Restructuring: The main features of the PSP restructuring that was
concluded in June 2005 included:

       Telecommunications Sector Reform Component: The reallocation of the Credit
      increased the project's financing by about US$9.6 million to US$26.56 million to


                                             5
      cover the additional expenses for rural access programs (US$7.2 million), radio
      spectrum monitoring and management support (US$0.4 million), regulatory work and
      technical assistance (US$1.2 million), and market studies and management
      information systems (US$0.8 million)
       Privatization Program Component: US$40.65 was allocated for BPE's activities,
      which represented a reduction of about US$20.44 million from initial allocations.
       Urban Water Supply Component (which was only for LSWC was amended):
      US$2.5 million was made to critical spare parts for emergency repairs and
      maintenance; US$0.90 million for stakeholder and customer communications;
      US$0.2 million for training and capacity building; and US$33.0 million for civil
      works for water supply infrastructure. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
      was amended to include Federal Capital Territory Water Board (FCTWB). The
      activities under this subcomponent consisted of: (i) improving access to potable water
      supply in the urban area of FCT; (ii) providing potable water to areas where none
      existed; and (iii) promoting and enhancing Public Private Partnership (PPP) in the
      FCT.
       Gas and Power: An amount of US$l0 million was allocated for the technical
      assistance and advisory services for a feasibility study of a gas pipeline and
      independent power production project.
       Procurement: Additional procurement methods were added for consultant
      services, through least cost selection and consultant qualification, to enable the
      implementing agencies to more appropriately procure consultant services,
      particularly to carry out the project environmental and financial audits and other
      specialized technical work.

21.     Second and Third Restructuring: During implementation, the Credit Agreement
was revised a further two times after the formal restructuring to reallocate funds among
expenditure categories. The second amendment of the DCA was in November 2006 for
the establishment of a Special Account for the FCT Urban Water component and also to
revise allocations accordingly to the different expenditure categories of the Schedule 1.
The third amendment was done in October 2008 to adjust amounts in line with revised
project procurement plans and insert a four month post-project close payment period.

1.7       Other significant changes

22.      Project Schedule: The closing date of the project was extended twice: First
extension was for two years from December 31, 2006 to December 30, 2008 in order to
make possible further delivery of critical development objectives of the project as agreed
under the 2005 restructuring. The second extension was for one year (through December
30, 2009) in order to allow (i) FCTWB to complete civil works contracts under way for
the rehabilitation of water supply infrastructure; (ii) BPE to continue transactions due
diligence work in support of the Federal Government's evolving power, gas and transport
sector reforms; and (iii) NCC to complete two "Universal Access" rural telephony pilots
and complete the ongoing telecommunications equipment development and upgrading.

23.      Concluding the LSWC component: By 2006, the Bank realized that the level of
rehabilitation needed for LSWC was high and that it could no longer be covered within
the project budget and timetable. Agreement was reached with the Federal Ministry of
Finance for PSP support to LSWC to be closed with effect from December 31, 2006 and




                                              6
that, ongoing work with LSWC be supported under the Second National Urban Water
Project.

24.      Balance of Project Funds Cancelled: Based on projected disbursements to the
end of the project on December 31, 2009 an amount of US$23 million of project funds
was cancelled. This cancellation reflected, inter alia: (i) delays to execution of key
transaction advisory contracts ­ particularly in power and energy sectors; (ii)
significantly reduced disbursements against the Gas-to-Power activities incorporated into
the project as a result of the 2005 restructuring; (iii) downward revision to estimated costs
of FCTWB activities.

25.     Other Donor Participation: USAID new Country Strategy resulted in a change
of priorities in Nigeria towards social sector objectives and termination of the USAID
support to the privatization program. However, DFID did introduce a Pounds Sterling 7
million capacity building program with BPE that coordinated closely with the PSP. The
DFID support focused on specialized technical assistance ­ including financing of legal
advisory services and the case study review of selected privatizations which has been a
key input to the preparation of this ICR.

      2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

26.      Project Preparation. As part of the project preparation, the sector background
was studied, the main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and the Government
strategies to deal with these issues were also considered. There was urgency on part of
the FGN to put this project in place, as it was in support of one of the key components of
the new government's economic strategy which was focused on economic recovery and
growth through macro-economic stability, institutional governance reforms and market
liberalization. Soon after assuming power in June 1999, the Obasanjo administration
signaled its strong commitment to privatization of state-owned enterprises as a critical
element of this economic strategy. A number of actions underscored this commitment: (a)
the creation in July 1999 of the NCP chaired by the Vice President of Nigeria, reporting
directly to the President; (b) the early adoption of a list of major PEs to be privatized -
including notably in electric power and telecommunications; and (c) the restructuring of
BPE under strengthened leadership in 1999. Further, President Obasanjo approached the
President of the World Bank Group very soon after coming to office, requesting support
for early implementation of key PE divestitures, notably in power and telecoms.

27.      Project design. The project was ambitious in scope ­ targeting key legal,
regulatory, institutional reforms allied to a transactions advisory agenda that targeted,
inter alia, privatizations in major infrastructure sectors that had a prolonged reputation of
poor performance at both management and service delivery levels. While this broad
program ­ involving initially three and then a fourth key implementing agents (BPE,
NCC, LSWC, FCTWB) ­ was well grounded in legal framework and strongly supported
by a statutory executive authority (via the National Council on Privatization ­ NCP), as
with most privatization initiatives, it nevertheless remained a high risk reform. The
project ­ aware from experiences elsewhere and based on specific Nigerian diagnostic -
sought to respond to these challenges through an extensive program of capacity building
and training, technical assistance and communications outreach. The complexity and


                                             7
diversity of the project activities appear to have contributed to the overlapping and
extended set of KPIs contained in the PAD. Executing Agents (EAs) and Stakeholders
did not fully internalize some of these indicators and establishing a sufficiently integrated
and comprehensive baseline and Monitoring and Evaluation arrangement proved difficult
across the different EAs. The NCP did not sufficiently serve as a Project Steering
Committee and the stakeholders did not want to establish what was perceived as a
duplicative entity. This inhibited effective Monitoring and Evaluation coordination across
key government partners, although this was mitigated to a significant extent by the
standardized quarterly reporting against a clear KPI matrix introduced for use among all
EAs over the 2006-2009 extension period. Focused workshops- involving all agencies in
2006, 2007 and 2009- were also conducted to enforce proper review measurement of
project activities the KPI matrix for the PSP project.

28.     Lessons of earlier operations taken into account. The project design took into
account lessons learned in similar privatization programs supported by the Bank Group:

       Country-Specific lessons: Institutional sustainability, borrower commitment and
      adhering to standard international procurement procedures are essential pre-requisites
      and were addressed in case of PSP by the FGN Privatization law and establishment
      of the NCP and BPE under legislation.
       Experiences with Privatization Programs: (a) adoption of efficient and
      transparent procedures for PE divestiture transactions is key to stakeholder
      confidence and sustainability; (b) effective coordination of high level Government
      policy making for PE divestitures with decisions on related sector reforms -
      especially in infrastructure - is critical to effective implementation; and (c)
      communications and awareness-raising with concerned stakeholder groups
      concerning privatization generally and for specific transactions is vital to maintaining
      support for the program. The PSP project sought to support all these key elements as
      part particularly of the BPE Institutional Support and Consensus Building
      components.
       Sector Specific lessons: (a) develop sector policies that promote competition
      whilst protecting consumer, environmental and social interests; (b) create legal and
      regulatory frameworks that attract strategic investors and develop efficient markets;
      (c) provide access to capital to improve and expand services to existing and new
      customers; and (d) increase access and availability of services, especially in rural
      areas. The PSP project focused considerable resources on sector legal and regulatory
      reform ­ particularly in power and telecommunications, but also extending to
      transport, energy and general competition policy.

29.      Risk Assessment. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified several
potential risks and mitigation measures. The overall risk of the project was rated as
Substantial in the PAD. The ICR team agrees with this assessment and in particular the
political, regulatory, governance and entrenched vested interest risks identified in section
F2 of the PAD. These all posed major threats to project performance over its life and,
while mitigation was ongoing and largely effectively, nevertheless they were mostly
entrenched in the power sector and this had a significant impact on related project
activities in the power sector which recorded more limited achievements against PAD
targets.




                                               8
2.2     Implementation

30.     The Bank conducted a Midterm Review (MTR) between February-April 2004.
Further factors also impacted implementation, particularly in the run-in to and after the
2007 elections. These different sets of factors are addressed below.

2.2.1   Factors affecting project implementation identified at MTR

31.     Slow Implementation of Privatization Program: Implementation of the Phase 2
including the full divestiture of FGN shares in over 60 companies operating in
competitive markets was slower than expected. This was due to various factors,
including: inability of preferred bidders to pay (e.g. NITEL); failure of preferred bidders
to pay on time (NAFCON, and Iwopin Pulp and Paper Co.); insufficient investor interest
(Central Hotel Kano); concerns over the preferred bidder's integrity (Volkswagen AG),
and legal disputes with stakeholders (Nicon Hilton Hotel).

32.     Political Review Delayed Electric Power Sector Reform: There was a long delay
in the passage and enactment of the Power Sector Reform Act in the National Assembly
due to high-level political review. This delayed subsequent actions such as the setting up
of sector regulation and NEPA's commercial unbundling.

33.     Low Initial Procurement Capacity: In the initial phase of the project, there was
limited procurement capacity, particularly at LSWC and, albeit to much lesser extent,
BPE. Considerable progress in this respect was achieved after 2005, as reflected in the
extent of procurement actions ­ covering complex multi-million dollar transaction
advisory contracts - concluded over the 2005-2006 period.

34.      Lack of Project Management and Coordination: More effective cross-agency
coordination in the initial phase of the project would have also resulted in better project
implementation and oversight performance over this period. For example, while BPE
remained strongly committed the reform program, there was resistance in some
Ministries, complicated further by union opposition. To a considerable extent in the early
period of the project, the support provided to BPE by the NCP allowed them to proceed
in spite of the institutional inertia and\or opposition that prevailed in some of the partner
ministries and agencies of the Federal Government. The project also anticipated ­ as
restated in the MTR - a Project Oversight and Monitoring Committee being established
under the chair of the Minister of Finance, and comprising all key stakeholders to the
project (including BPE, NCC, LSWC, and FCTWB). However this committee was never
effective and did not meet over the period after the mid-term review through to project
closure. As noted earlier, the Executing Agents often noted that the NCP was the official
coordinating body for the privatization program and queried the value-added of a separate
oversight committee that would comprise much the same institutional membership as the
NCP. BPE, in particular, continued to take its directives from the NCP or from the
President or the Vice President (and NCP Chair).




                                             9
2.2.2    Other factors affecting project implementation

35.     In addition to the above factors, the implementation was also affected by the
following factors:

36.      Stakeholder dynamics: There was, particularly in the run-in to the 2007
elections, especially strong and broad stakeholder factors at play with respect to key
transactions, especially in power and transport sectors. These constraints encompassed
deep-seated political, institutional and industrial relations issues, animated by a 2007
election process and subsequent energy sector policy review process launched by the new
administration in May 2007. This had direct and substantial implications for the
privatization program and for BPE's operating environment and affected the timeliness of
the implementation of workplans and procurement plans during 2007 and early 2008.

37.     Problems with the labor unions in the power sector were particularly pronounced.
While labor retrenchment issues were probably the most difficult aspect that Government
negotiators successfully resolved in the case of the Port Reform exercise, challenges with
the NEPA work force proved more intractable particularly in the run-in to the elections.

38.      Ongoing Power Sector Policy and Institutional Obstacles: Difficulties in the
power and the gas-to-power sectors arising out of ongoing and unsettled gas pricing
policies and legislative reform, multi-year electricity tariff levels and institutional issues
across NNPC, PHCN, NCG hindered pace of privatization/PPP actions being supported
under this project. This was further delayed by review of the energy sector undertaken by
the administration which came to power after the May2007 election and put on hold the
activities in the power sector and gas-to-power.1 While the 2008 Energy Council Final
Review did not change the privatization policy in the power sector, it did push back the
timetable for privatization for PHCN. Recently in October 2010, the FGN resumed its
privatization strategy and announced an enhanced Power Sector Strategy. This Strategy
calls for the immediate implementation of the power privatization agenda, as developed
with PSP support, including the privatization of a number of DISCOs associated with the
letting of management contracts for the transmission and power generation. This new
policy initiative, entitled "Roadmap for Power Sector Reform" realigns the sector policy
back in line with original plans as set out in the electricity legislation.

39.     May 2007 Presidential election and the change of administration: The absence
of a functioning NCP in the months leading up to the election, and the delay in re-
launching of NCP after the election slowed project activities. This transition process after
the election resulted in the establishment of new government including appointment of
Ministers, setting up the Economic Management Team (EMT), reconstitution of NCP and
the inauguration of the National Assembly and its various committees. Delays during
2007 in ministerial approval of procurement actions also set back the FCT Water Board
component, requiring extension of the component completion timeline.




1
  For example, privatization/concessioning actions pending for the unbundled PHCN companies
(DISCOs and GENCOs) were suspended subject to the outcome of a presidentially-appointed
Energy Council Review of the Power Sector.


                                             10
2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and
Utilization
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

40.      M&E design: During project preparation, the team developed indicators to
monitor the performance of the different project components. These indicators were
originally designed to assess the performance of the various components of the project
yet they lacked consistency across the Project Appraisal Document itself. While these
weaknesses were mitigated (especially after the 2006 extension, see paragraph 42 below),
a shortage of baseline figures constrained the indicator's efficacy in assessing project
performance. As a result, the M&E design was limited from the outset of the project.

41.      M&E implementation: In the early phase of the project ­ and prior to the MTR
­ project M&E was not very active. Following the MTR, and the arrangements put in
place as part of the first extension of the project from 2006-2008, M&E was improved
and regular quarterly reporting against an updated set of activity outcomes linked to the
project KPIs was completed by BPE NCC, and FCTWB. Likewise, a set of five
indicators were synthesized from grouping the various indicators discussed in the PAD.
This set of five structured the M&E framework through project closure. Additional
subsidiary indicators (see Annex 10) were also synthesized from the various PAD
indicators in order to measure more specific intervention results. It was also recognized
that BPE lacked the IT platform to adequately maintain records of transactions and
systematize follow-up monitoring of privatized companies. As a result, over the 2006-09
period, the PSP project undertook a substantial IT upgrade and training program to put in
place this capacity. This is ongoing within BPE since the project closure.

42.      M&E utilization: Following MTR, data collected from quarterly progress reports
by the implementing agencies was evaluated and used for decision making on project
activities. For example, based on the available data, credit allocated to FCTWB was
reduced from $25 million to $19 million as there was not enough time to execute all the
activities before project closure. The additional indicators (see Annex 10) were also
periodically used to measure the support provided under PSP. To complement the
quarterly reporting and deepen institutional knowledge base on the economic impact of
privatization - covering key PAD issues such as employment creation, shareholder value,
productivity improvements - 11 case study reviews undertaken in collaboration with
DFID, provided key data used to assess these measures. The considerable diagnostic data
amassed across the different sectors that have been financed by the PSP project provide
key input to the recently re-launched Power Sector program and the preparation of the
follow-on projects referred to in more detail in paragraph 49 below.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.     There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank safeguards and
fiduciary policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.




                                           11
2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition arrangements

44.     NCC: Assets procured under the project will be absorbed by NCC and
maintenance of these assets such as spectrum monitoring management system will be
covered under the maintenance agreement with the suppliers to ensure that they are
maintained. Regarding the Universal Access (UA) pilot projects as per the contract
agreement, the UA service provider is obliged to run these projects for five years. The
same consultant who helped NCC to carry out studies to determine the cost of
interconnection of telecom traffic between network operators will be retained to review
the current needs and status. All staff under the project continued with NCC even after
the project closed. Furthermore, NCC has made adequate budget provision for regular
operations, and has also established a Universal Service Provision Fund which is
expected to scale up UA service provision in the country. Policies and regulations which
were supported under the project will be reviewed on a regular basis so that, if needed,
they can be updated to be in line with the trends in the industry worldwide.

45.      BPE: Enactment of several sector policies, laws and regulations has, in a
sustained way, strengthened the role of the private sector in Nigeria's economy. These
regulations also make it statutory that new institutions created under the privatization
program have independent and sustainable funding and budgetary provisions from the
commercial activities in which they are involved. The PSP has resulted in the transfer of
knowledge and technical capacity to the BPE staff. The training program financed by the
project, including a strategic management training program that was implemented by the
University of South Africa and involved participants not just from BPE but also other key
stakeholders from other MDAs and Assembly Members, has also ensured that the BPE
staff has enjoyed a considerable level of specialized training that will guide reforms well
in future transactions.

46.      FCTWB: Ongoing support to FCTWB is being provided under alternative IDA
credits, including under the planned PPP project which will be supporting FCTWB to
identify a PPP partner for the Kuje Water Works.

47.    LSWC: Activities completed under the project have been transferred to the
Second National Urban Water Project.

48.     Continued Use of Performance Indicators: The same indicators which were
used during implementation are continued to be used by BPE, NCC, and FCTWB. In
particular, in the case of NCC, tele-density levels continue to be monitored as do the
increases in outreach to rural communities first promoted through the PSP financing of
the UA pilots and now institutionalized under the Universal Service Provision Fund
(USPF) within NCC. As new regulations addressing detailed technical service standards
­ again supported under the PSP project ­ are promulgated, then additional metrics come
into play that are being diligently monitored by NCC.

49.     Follow-Up Projects: There have been two key projects that have served to enable
the Bank to follow-up on outstanding issues since the closure of the PSP. The first is the
Nigeria Electricity and Gas Improvement Project (NEGIP, project #114277), approved in
2009. This project directly addresses some of the key gas supply issues in the upstream


                                            12
stages of the power sector supply chain that will address some of the principal
commercial obstacles to private sector appetite to participate in the prospective
privatization of PHCN unbundled companies. The Bank also about to approve (Board
submission on March 17, 2011) a Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) Project (#P115386)
that will seek to increase infrastructure service levels and quality through a six year
institutional development and PPPI financing program. The project would also contribute
to strengthen institutional governance over key factor markets, improving risk and cost
determinants.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
        Rating: High Relevance

50.      The objectives of the project are still important to the country's social and
economic development and are rated as High. The program has responded to what has
proved to be a central and durable feature of the Federal Governments ongoing economic
reform agenda. It has remained appropriate to the needs of Nigeria both at the time of
project conception and today. The privatization program has generated considerable
potential not just through outright privatization and SOE commercialization options but
also for a wide range of alternative forms of private participation in infrastructure
financing covering leasing and concessions. This relevance to the FGN is all the more
cogent as it has been maintained over a 12 year period across three different
administrations and Presidents. While timetables and milestones have understandably
been adjusted to respond to, inter alia, political and social dynamics, the fundamental
policy and the Government's commitment to the market liberalization and expanded
private sector engagement in the economy - that is at its core of the privatization program
- has been unwavering. The FGN's adaptation in the implementation of this program is,
in fact, further testament to its resolve to follow through and achieve the policy's
objectives.

51.      The FGN's interest in the enhanced utilization of PPP as a mechanism for
procuring and financing infrastructure projects and infrastructure services in the public
sector was launched at the August 2008 Infrastructure Summit, followed by the
inauguration of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) and the
April 2009 approval of the National PPP Policy. Furthermore, both the CPS and CPS II
highlight the FGN's interest in continuing facilitating private sector development and
PPPs. The relevance of the design of the PSP project likewise is rated High as many of
the core features are reflected again in the design of the successor PPP project. This
includes legal, regulatory and institutional development and transactions advisory
support.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

52.     The project was moderately satisfactory in achieving its objectives. The three
principal project objectives (see section A.1 of PAD) against which this project was
assessed and concluded to be moderately satisfactory were: (i) support transparent and
effective implementation of the FGN's privatization program; (ii) expand private



                                            13
investment and improved efficiency in the productive sectors and in infrastructure; and
(iii) improve the enabling environment for private sector participation and competition in
infrastructure services, notably in telecommunications and electric power.

3.2.1      Achievements of the project

The project's major outcomes and achievements are as follows:

      a) Support the Transparent and Effective Implementation of the FGN
         Privatisation Program
         Rating: Satisfactory

53.    The project has realized substantial achievements with regards to effectiveness
with minor shortcomings with regards to transparency.

Effectiveness

54.      In the context of effectiveness, the project greatly expanded private sector
investment through the privatization of 109 transaction with gross proceeds amounting to
US$1.89 billion at the current exchange rate (Indicator 1).Of this amount, the net
proceeds reverted to the Federal Government after credit payments and other obligations
amounted to US$ 939.3 million2 (at the current exchange rate). The opening up of the
telecommunications sector, and to a partial degree the power sector (with Egbin Power
privatization) represented a significant increase in private participation in infrastructure
(Indicator 2)The support provided to BPE under the Institution-Building and Consensus
Building contributed substantially to the capacity of BPE to manage the privatization
agenda and facilitate a more competitive investment environment as represented by both
the NCC and NERC bills (Indicator 3).

55.      The financing of transactions advisors enabled the FGN to bring top domestic
and international expertise to bear for diagnostic and market preparation work relating to
the privatization of wide range of Public Enterprises, particularly in infrastructure and
energy sectors. This introduction of specialized advisors increased competition and
private sector appetite by packaging the transactions coherently and systematically to
potential investors. Even where transaction work did not lead to a market sale during the
life of the project, considerable technical work and lessons learned provides a strong
foundation as the FGN continues to move forward in the liberalization and privatization
of public enterprises in these sectors such as power.

56.     Case studies conducted on 11 privatization transactions (including the
concessioning of 24 port terminals have revealed a number of positive outcomes),
highlights some measures by which the effectiveness can be measured:

      Turnover: Average annual turnover (sales revenue) for the group of firms has
      climbed by 884 percent in aggregate after privatization.



2
    From BPE Privatization Proceeds Account records.



                                               14
   Productivity: In all cases, average annual productivity, defined as turnover per
   employee, has increased significantly after privatization. Productivity trend has been
   highly positive after privatization, increasing more than tenfold (1124 percent) in
   aggregate Naira terms.
   Fixed Assets: Aggregate Fixed Assets climbed 197 percent after privatization,
   reflecting private sector owners' willingness to invest in plant and equipment, often
   to replace equipment that was run down or obsolete after years of neglect under State
   control. Privatization has helped investment in every case in this group of firms.
   Income Taxes Paid: Income taxes paid by the group of firms rose by 932 percent in
   aggregate.
   Dividends Paid: The vast majority of dividends paid prior to privatization went to
   State entities, whereas the vast majority of dividends paid after privatization went to
   private shareholders. Total dividends paid rose by 2662 percent in aggregate.
   Market Capitalisation: Aggregate market capitalisation has increased by 2083
   percent for publicly listed firms if the banks are included, but by a more modest 435
   percent if the banks are excluded from the sample and the remaining five industrial
   concerns are considered. Thus, privatization has allowed this group of firms to take
   advantage of Nigeria's buoyant capital markets in recent years.
   Employment: In the telecom sector, more than 21,000 people have been directly
   employed by the GSM operators and an estimated one million people have gained
   indirect employment such as recharge cards dealers, hawkers, resellers and umbrella
   phone booth business operators. New investment amounts to more than US$12
   billion. The private sector investment in the UA Pilot Projects ­ most notably the
   GICELL investment of US$50 million in well in excess of the PSP initial pilot
   program contribution of US$5 million.

57.      This sample of case studies represents around 30% of the value of the
privatisations achieved to date as shown in the table below. As such it provides a
representative sample of the range of positive economic outcomes derived from the
privatization in real, financial and infrastructure sectors.




                                           15
                               Privatization Proceeds (US$ millions) % of total proceeds
Eleme Pterochem                                 225                             11.9%
Oando                                           195                             10.3%
Ports Concessions                               115                              6.1%
Lafarge WAPCO                                   26                               1.4%
Ashaka Cement                                   18                               1.0%
First Bank                                       9                               0.5%
NTM                                              9                               0.5%
Dana Steel                                       8                               0.4%
NAHCO                                            8                               0.4%
Union Bank                                       8                               0.4%
CCNN                                             6                               0.3%
  Sub total of sample
  privatizations                                627                             33.2%
   All other privatizations                    1263                             66.8%
Total Privatization Proceeds                   1890                             100%



Transparency

58.      With the support of the project, BPE developed Privatization Procedures Manual
which reflected best practice and Nigerian experience. This Manual was instrumental in
establishing a coherent and transparent method by which the FGN would divest PEs. This
gave greater confidence to the private sector by clearly outlining the process by which the
transaction would be carried forward (Indicator 1, 2 and 3). The same is true of other
technical assistance work such as the Post-privatization Monitoring Framework, the
Regulations on General Practices of Competition, Regulation on Universal Access, and
Regulations on Terminal Equipment Standardization in the telecom sector. The PSP
project also supported a considerable upgrade of BPE. The IT capacity including
recording technology for negotiations and the development of a platform for project
information gathering and electronic filing. These activities also supported greater
transparency and predictability in the privatization process which had the indirect effect
of improving the attractiveness of PEs for private sector investment (also relevant to
other PDOs as discussed later).

      b) Increased private participation and efficiency in infrastructure
         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.      Progress across the different infrastructure sectors has resulted in some strong
positive outcomes in telecommunications and ports and delayed progress in the power
sector. The following summary of each sector highlights the progress and achievements
reached with support under PSP. These achievements suit the key performance indicators
supported by the project.

60.     Ports: A major achievement of the project is the notable success in the reform of
the Port sector and the concessioning of 24 of the port terminals in the country, where ­
with the introduction of private operators ­ the objective of increased operating efficiency
has been met, as demonstrated by the following achievements:



                                               16
    Cargo throughput has more than doubled for some operators;
    Berth occupancy rate has significantly improved: Average berth occupancy is now 80
    percent;
    Average ship waiting time at anchorage has been reduced from 21-14 days to 1-0 day,
    thereby reducing demurrage;
    Average ship turn-around time is reduced from 10 to 5 days;
    Reduction of over US$1,000 freight container due to surcharges associated with port
    congestion;
    Over 5,000 redundant staff of NPA had been disengaged and over N20 billion paid as
    entitlement, severance pay and pension buyout;
    Casual dock laborers have been reduced from about 13000 to about 3000;
    The installation of scanners in all the port terminals in Nigeria;
    The port reform in Nigeria has served as a model to some other West African
    countries (Sierra Leone and Liberia) who are replicating the reforms in their
    countries.

61.     Telecommunications: Nigeria continues to benefit from support provided under
PSP in the telecommunications sector, with its open and competitive regulatory
framework, and one of the most competitive telecommunications markets in the World (4
National GSM mobile operators, 2 Fixed Telecom Operators, and over a dozen Private
Telecom Operators using fixed-wireless technologies).          Furthermore, the poor
performance of the fixed-line network is being countered by the rapid growth in fixed-
wireless technologies, notably CDMA. The NCC continues to be one of the most
independent regulatory authorities on the continent, and continues to rank very high on
BMI's ranking of country regulatory independence and Business Environment.

62.     Early results of the UA program are been quite impressive, with the number of
subscribers already estimated at 2,800 and expected to increase to 35,000. The combined
impact of the 25 percent subsidyi, and use of CDMA technology is allowing the UA
Operator to offer very competitive tariffs. Net tariffs/minute is a flat fee of N4 compared
to average of N18. Tariff to other networks at N15/minute is about 50% lower than other
competitors. Also, the UA Program has resulted in increased direct and indirect
employment and poverty alleviation in the affected areas. The UA provider, GiCell, is
currently leading a consortium which has taken a 75 percent stake in Nitel.

63.     The project support to this ­ including the technical and capacity building
support to NCC both for development of legal and regulatory frameworks, the financing
of the spectrum equipment and the launch of the UA pilots - have been key to the ability
of the NCC to build market credibility and effectively engage with private sector in
investment (over US$5.4 billion to date) and service delivery objectives. NCC
particularly notes the learning that was afforded to the institution in the development and
implementation of the UA pilots. This has provided core expertise on which they have
been able to further build the rural telephony market.

64.     Power sector: In March 2005, Electric Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA) was
promulgated, which was a very significant step towards privatization. As a result, BPE
proceeded to establish the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) which was
incorporated in May 2005 and all assets, liabilities and staff of NEPA was transferred to
PHCN in July 2005. An Interim Board was established to provide oversight of the PHCN


                                            17
assets until such time as they are readied for disposition under different PPP options.
PHCN's 18 successor companies were incorporated in November 2005, and transfer of
PHCN's assets and liabilities to these successor companies was made effective July 1st
2006. Egbin Power was privatized to KEPCO Energy Resources Limited in 2007.
However, progress on the power sector privatization workplan needed to be revised, in
light of the outcome of an Energy Sector Review, undertaken by a specialized Energy
Council established by the President.

65.     The conclusions of the Energy Council review endorsed the privatization and
market liberalization approach enshrined in the 1999 legislation. Moreover, the Power
Sector Reform was re-launched in October 2010 under a Policy Statement entitled
"RoadMap for Power Sector Reform ­ A Customer Driven Sector Wide Plan to
Achieve Stable Power Supply". This policy statement reconfirmed the Government's
commitment to the liberalization of key assets in the power value chain including
privatization\concessioning of DISCOs and GENCOs, fostering of IPPs and management
contract arrangements for the TRANSCO. This is entirely consistent with the original
objectives laid out in the 2005 EPSRA and 1999 Privatization and Commercialization
Act. This work will continue to be lead by BPE, building on the considerable diagnostic
and market assessment work financed through the project.

66.     Urban Water Sector: Likewise, there has been some significant efficiency
progress leading to expanded service outreach as a result of the project support (Indicator
2):

        LSWC: Emergency rehabilitation work done under the project has helped LSWC
        to prevent a system failure and maintain the viability of the company. For
        example, emergency rehabilitation of pumps, generators and related control
        system in Iju and Akute water treatment plants has led to the following
        outcomes: (i) increase in water production capacity; (ii) increase in customer
        billed; and (iii) improved collection per month. In addition, the project financed:
        (i) several interventions including rehabilitation of lighting, air-conditioning, fans
        etc at major networks; (ii) rehabilitation of chlorination plant at Adiyan water
        plant; (iii) rehabilitation of drains, roads and other civil works at Akute and
        Adiyan stations; (iv) rehabilitation of raw water pump motors; (v) rehabilitation
        and drilling of boreholes at Surulere mini waterworks; and (vi) servicing of
        transformers at the waterworks stations as well as the headquarters.

        FCTWB: After technical advisory and training, the FCTWB decided to proceed
        with management contracts in the Gwarinpa, Karu/Nyanya and Gwagwalada
        districts. The extension and rehabilitation of the pipeline network of Karu,
        Gwagwalada and Gwarinpa II districts has increased access to potable water in
        these districts with corresponding increase in house connections. For example,
        about 5,000 house connections have been achieved in Gwarinpa II district
        serving a population of about 30,000. The Engineering Design for Kuje Dam and
        Treatment Plant that will supply potable water to Pegi has been completed.
        FCTWB have moved forward successfully to put in place arrangements for the
        entire supply chain that will, over time, create the enabling environment more
        conducive to private sector PPP risk taking. This is reflected in recent decision of
        the FCTWB to pursue a more comprehensive PPP transaction (most probably a
        concession) for the Kuje Water Works.



                                             18
      c) Improve the enabling environment for private sector participation and
         competition in infrastructure services, notably in telecommunications and
         electric power
         Rating: Satisfactory

67.      Telecommunications Sector: A New Telecommunications Bill was approved by
the National Assembly and signed by the President into Law on 8 July 2003. This law
formalized the opening up of the sector to competition in a manner consistent with
international best practices. The Law, for example, established the independence of the
NCC with respect to regulatory matters and provided for its funding through license fees.
It also required interconnection between all services providers and created a Universal
Service Fund (USF) and a National Frequency Management Council. Project support
resulted in a series of industry regulations covering: (i) quality of service guidelines for
mobile, fixed and internet services; (ii) consumer protection guidelines; (iii) regulations
on universal access; (iv)regulations on terminal equipment standardization and type
approval guidelines; (v) internet service guidelines. Lessons learned in the design of
Output Based Aid (OBA) contracts for rural telephony as a result of the UA pilots has
increased NCC capacity to draft and negotiate balanced contracts with the private sector,
thus increasing the efficiency and cost effectiveness of further PPP arrangements in this
field.

68.      Power Sector: Further to the passage of the Electricity Power Sector Reform
(EPSR) bill in March 2005, NERC was inaugurated in October 2005 after being cleared
by the Senate. These two actions ­ which were core areas for support under the PSP
project- represented major steps forward in the establishment of pro-competitive and
transparent markets in the power sector. These legal and institutional steps were further
entrenched with the unbundling of NEPA. The Power Holding Company of Nigeria
(PHCN) was incorporated in May 2005 and all assets, liabilities and staff of NEPA were
transferred to PHCN in July 2005. These reform steps were then followed by the
approval of the Multi-Year Tariff Order (MYTO).

69.     Support made to BPE, the creation of the Privatization Manual, and the technical
support provided by the project for the development of the EPSR, the PSP funded senior
technical staff, and goods and equipment to support the NERC to develop its operating
arrangements, finalize and review the MYTO, all contributed to an improved enabling
environment for private sector participation and competition.

3.2.2    Shortcomings of the project

70.      Overall the short-comings of the project were relatively minor. There was an
understandable complexity reflected in the number of key executing agents operating
across the different components of the project. Aside from the Monitoring and
Evaluation Framework and early implementation of this aspect of the project, the
components and KPIs remained highly relevant to the project objectives and have
provided firm basis against which to assess project performance and adjust activities and
priorities during the course of implementation.

71.      Power sector: Despite the fast progress in restructuring NEPA into the PHCN
after the passage of the EPSR, the high-level FGN review of the power sector, after the
inauguration of the new government in 2007, required a pause in the privatization of


                                            19
PHCN assets. However, as stated previously, the FGN has resumed its privatization
agenda for the power sector following the October 2010 disclosure of RoadMap for
Power Sector Reform-A Customer Driven Sector Wide Plan to Achieve Stable Power
Supply." This reinvigorated initiative follows on from the approach and methods first
supported by the PSP.

72.     Gas-to-Power was likewise affected by the Federal Government review of sector
policy undertaken under the auspices of the Energy Council. Given the ongoing policy,
legal and institutional review including the ongoing deliberations related to the Nigerian
Petroleum Industry Bill, it was not effective to proceed, beyond preliminary work related
to investment banking, gas pricing and engineering studies. However, the objectives
remained unchanged and the NEGIP project is a key part of the subsequent World Bank
and FGN response to the recommendations arising from these initial reports and lessons
learned in the course of Bank Group efforts to assist the FGN to augment power
provision and private sector participation in the sector.


3.3 Efficiency
    Rating: Satisfactory

73.     The PSP Project supported privatization activities in a wide array of forms
including technical assistance, capacity building, civil works, and specific consultancies
aimed at facilitating the government's ability to bring SOE to market. As described both
in the Project Appraisal Document and the restructured mid-term review project
document, the six components (four when the first three- General Privatization Support,
BPE Institutional Support, and Privatization Consensus Building are all grouped together
and referred to as the "Privatization Program") have catalyzed significant levels of
increased private sector investment in Nigeria, created new jobs in the private sector, and
contributed to the overall "crowding-in" of private sector investment in Nigeria.

74.      While the conduct of economic and financial analysis is limited by data
constraints and the heteronomy of sectors and outcomes sought, overall analysis can be
completed on the project in its entirety to understand the great leveraging effect the PSP
investments had in Nigeria. Likewise, spot economic analysis can also be performed on
select project components both to provide a project closing summary of the success of the
investment and also to compare with the economic projections done at the time of Board
approval (see PAD). The economic analysis of the overall PSP project makes certain
assumptions in order to produce net present value (NPV) and the internal rate of return
(IRR) on project investments (these can be found in detail in Annex 3).

75.        The results of these calculations on the PSP project are as follows:

IDA invested3:                       IRR:                       NPV:  

$93,057,589                          115%                       $529,914,813.49  




3
    Figure taken from the 2009 ISR


                                               20
                                                              


76.     These resulting figures show the impressive returns to the overall project cost.
The internal rate of return of 115 percent substantiates the financial costs invested in the
project. This is further strengthened by the high NPV value relative to the IDA
investment.

77.      While it is not possible to carry out an economic analysis of the LSWC support
given that this sub-component was closed, financial rate of returns can be determined for
the FCT Water Board activities, which was commenced in 2006 under component 6 of
the project. This activity supported improvement of access to potable water supply in
the urban area of FCT through the densification and extension of water supply
distribution network, the stabilization of Trunk Mains and facilitate the development of
private sector participation in water supply. Financial analysis on FCTWB is based on
data provided from the FCTWB Borrower's Evaluation Report4. The assumptions made
for this analysis can be found in Annex 3 in detail.

78.      The resulting NPV and IRR calculations for investments made for FCTWB show
a positive financial result.


IDA Invested:                   IRR:                             NPV: 

$16,364,436.845                 27%                              $34,122,675.03 


79.      While FCTWB was not an original investment covered in the original financial
and economic analysis in the PAD, the analysis performed on LSWC provides a good
comparator against which we can measure the success of FCTWB. The analysis done on
LSWC predicted a financial IRR of 19 percent assuming a 10 percent discount rate6. The
IRR calculated for FCTWB both exceeds the estimated financial IRR for LSWC. Noting
that this analysis used a 12 percent discount rate as opposed to a 10 percent discount rate,
the recalculated IRR for FCTWB incorporating this lower discount rate results in
NPV that is still encouraging (only about US$4 million less).




4
  FCTWB Borrower's Evaluation Report. December 2009.
5
  Data taken from FCTWB Borrower's Report. December 2009.
6
  See PSP PAD.



                                            21
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.      Based on the discussion given in Sections 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is
rated as Moderately Satisfactory.7 The project recorded substantial achievements across
all aspects of the Project Development goals which remained highly relevant throughout
the project life. The project efficacy ­ maintained throughout a period of considerable
political and economic change in Nigeria - as summarized in the Data Sheet and further
detailed in Annex 10 is further reinforced by the analysis and comments provided in the
Borrower Evaluation Reports (BER). Efficiency estimates, insofar as they can be
effectively measured for what was principally a technical assistance project, are highly
favorable indicating that the project support for the Government's privatization program
contributed to significant economic rates of return on the project investment.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

81.     Poverty impacts: In the Telecom sector, the project has been instrumental in
creating job opportunities, and this increased job opportunities have a direct positive
impact on poverty alleviation. For details see Section 3.2 A (a)

82.     In the urban water sector, because of the extension and rehabilitation of the
pipeline network of Karu, Gwagwalada and Gwarinpa II districts residents are getting
regular supply of water from the pipeline, and as a result, they do not need to spend
money to buy water from vendors. In addition, residents in the five villages (Giri, Jiwa,
Bassan-Jiwa, Guida and Dawaki) along the trunk lines are given water free from bore
wells dug by FCTWB in order to prevent them from illegally tapping water from
pipelines. These developments are expected to have a positive impact on poverty
reduction.

83.     Gender aspects: Anecdotal evidence provided by FCTWB indicates that easier
access to potable water resulting from the extension and rehabilitation of the pipeline
network, has reduced the time burden associated with water collection for women in
Karu, Gwagwalada and Gwarinpa II districts. Consequently women are able to use this
time for other productive activities. In addition, availability of clean water is helping to
lower incidences of malaria and water born diseases. Further, access to ICTs has also
created new opportunities for women.

84.       Social development: The project has resulted in both direct and indirect impact
for the individual households and general community. For example, access to ICT
facilities such as television, mobile phones and the internet, has improved the quality of
life in rural areas, and has also led to better communication among people though these
facilities.


7
 The weighted rating before restructuring (when 33 percent of funds were disbursed) and after
(when 67 percent was disbursed) also suggests an overall outcome rating of moderately
satisfactory, as both periods would be rated moderately satisfactory.



                                               22
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

85.      The considerable institutional development supported by the project ­ impacting
BPE, NCC, NERC, LSWC, FCTWB and NEPA/PHCN, NPA to name the key examples
have been detailed earlier in this report. It represents one of the principal benefits from
this project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

Positive

86.      Telecom sector: The development of eight telecom regulations was not
envisioned at the beginning of the project. This was made possible because of additional
financing received after the project restructuring. While the UAPF seed money originally
covered just one route, it has been increased to three routes thanks to the project
restructuring. Similarly, demand studies were envisioned just for one region, but by the
end of the project it was expanded to the national level.

Negative

87.      As noted above, the degree of political, bureaucratic and labor union issues
affecting the privatization program and the PSP project proved to be less amenable to the
risk mitigation actions than was envisioned. This eventually caused delays particularly to
the transaction aspects of the power sector workplan.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder
    Workshops

88.     See Annex 6

4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
        Rating: Significant

89.      Telecom sector: Achievements in the telecom sector are highly sustainable and so
the risk is negligible to low.

90.     General Privatization: Much of the general privatization work ­ covering real
and financial sector is completed as set out in the Privatization Law. What remains is the
third phase privatization and commercialization in the infrastructure sectors. It will be
key for BPE and ICRC to collaborate to ensure that FGN policy to encourage private
investment, technical and managerial expertise into these sectors is managed in a
coordinated fashion via privatization, commercialization and PPP approaches.

91.     Urban water sector: All activities completed under the FCTWB component are
sustainable as they will be maintained by FCTWB's existing staff. On the other hand, out
of four project districts, distribution network has been completed in the three districts of
Karu, Gwagwalede and Gwarinpe. Due to time constraint, project was not able to



                                            23
complete Nyanya distribution network. This will be pursued with funding that FCTWB
will look to mobilize through other funding sources. The knowledge and experience
gained in this initial rehabilitation and extension work and introduction of management
contracts has also strengthened FCTWB confidence in approaching the market for PPP
approaches to other urban water assets, as evidenced by the work now being done for a
PPP arrangement for Kuje Water, with support from ICRC and the World Bank planned
PPP project.

92.      Power Sector: In the power sector, the risk of sustainability is high. 17 out of 18
SCs are still under the control of PHCN. A new Policy initiative was announced in
October 2010 and if this is effectively implemented, the sustainability risk will be
significantly reduced.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
        Rating: Satisfactory.

93.     The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was satisfactory. During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account
the adequacy of project design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial,
economic, and institutional, including procurement and financial management. A
number of alternatives were considered for the project design. In addition, major risk
factors and lessons learned from other earlier privatization programs supported by the
Bank were considered and incorporated into the project design.

94.     Project preparation was carried out with an adequate number of specialists who
provided the technical skill mix necessary to address sector concerns and a good project
design. The Bank provided adequate resources in terms of staff weeks and dollar amount
to ensure quality preparation and appraisal work. The project was consistent with the
Bank's assessment of priority assistance needs and government priorities in the sector at
the time. The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower
during preparation and appraisal.

(b)     Quality of Supervision
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

95.       Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was moderately
satisfactory. The task team remained focused throughout project implementation on the
project's development impact. The Bank allocated sufficient budget and staff resources,
and the project was adequately supervised and closely monitored. The task team
provided timely professional inputs and regularly prepared Aide-Memoires, alerted the
FGN, and the implementing agencies on the issues found during project execution and
facilitated prompt corrective action. The Implementation Status Reports (ISRs)
realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of
development objectives and project implementation.




                                            24
96.     Bank's procurement and financial management proficient staff worked with the
staff of the implementing agencies to explain the rules and procedures to be applied
during project implementation, with regard to procurement of goods and works, and
selection of consultants, financial management, based on the Credit Agreement. The task
team carried out a Mid-Term Review in February 2004.

97.     On the other hand, there were two shortcomings in the Bank's performance.
There was a high turnover of TTLs during the first three years of the project. This created
a lack of continuity and ownership and different approaches to the supervision of project
implementation. This was corrected after the MTR when a single TTL remained in place
through project closure.

98.      Stakeholder discussions with the Bank team considered at length on political risk
associated with the elections prior to the first extension. However, experience showed
this risk was miscalculated and this resulted in a 2007 BPE workplan that ­ in case of
power sector ­ faced realistic time objectives. The FGN continued to reaffirm its
commitment to the privatization policy in the sector, but at a reduced pace, with the
Energy Commission recommending that an interim phase during which PHCN would
rehabilitate assets before proceeding with their privatization\concessioning. While the
Bank adapted to this changing policy circumstances, they nevertheless had some negative
ramifications for the deliverables set out for the PSP extension period 2006-2008.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

99.     Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as
discussed above, overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

100.     As mentioned in Section 2.1, the Government had shown its commitment to the
objectives of the project at the time of project preparation. Further, in 2000-2001,
significant progress had been made with implementation of Phase One of the
privatization program, with the sale of FGN share holdings in eight PEs. This included
two cement companies and two banks. The FGN had made important progress in
preparation of the telecommunications and electric power reform programs. This
included adoption of a new NTP opening the sector fully to competition in 2001, and of a
National Electric Power Policy (NEPP). These, as well as adoption of strengthened
privatization procedures, were actions completed prior to Board presentation of the
project.

101. Other actions taken by the FGN that confirmed its commitment included: (a)
enactment of the 1999 Privatization and Commercialization Act, followed by the 2000
decision to increase the shareholding to be sold to strategic investors to 51 percent; (b)
establishment of sector reform committees including top FGN officials and stakeholder
representatives that had played a key role in design of the reforms; (c) appointment of a
new board of directors and chief executive for the NCC, including private sector


                                            25
representatives; and (d) conduct of workshops for stakeholders to share knowledge and
encourage debate in key reform areas, such as concessioning in transport and
infrastructure.

102. The Government maintained its commitment to the project during the major part
of implementation and across three different administrations. There were strong
champions of privatization at senior political and bureaucratic level of administration
throughout a series of political and economic phases over the past 11 years.

(b)    Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

103.     BPE has an extremely difficult mandate, navigating multiple political and
institutional interests across the executive, the legislature, the bureaucracy, organized
labor and the broader public. The legal force provided by the Privatization Act and the
status accorded BPE in the Electricity legislation were key factors in ensuring the
institution maintained its institutional legitimacy and ability to sustain its role in the
reform exercise during difficult periods such as the 2007 elections and ongoing
negotiations with organized labor. Sustained political commitment from the highest
levels is a key sine qua non and when, due to the demands of the 2007 election, this was
not sufficiently the case, it did impact BPEs capacity to implement its work program. One
area for more support would have been along the lines of the strategic management for
change training that took place in 2009 to find more collaborative solutions when
impasses do present themselves. In the case of organized labor, while BPE recruited
specialized services to try to facilitate constructive dialogue towards mutually agreeable
outcomes, the only instance where there was a resolution was in the case of the NPA.
And this benefited also from the very active participation of the then Minister of Finance.

104. The Central Procurement Unit (CPU) of the BPE reviewed all procurement
processes by the various sectors and ensured quality before submission to the Bank. The
CPU also organized series of procurement workshops and clinics for the sector
Procurement Officers. In financial management, budgeting, accounting, internal control,
funds flow, financial reporting, external audit were assessed as compliant and
satisfactory. No fraud or corruption issues were observed. Overall, performance of BPE
was satisfactory.

105. Overall, performance of BPE in financial management rating based on the
supervision report was moderately unsatisfactory. There were long outstanding ineligible
expenditures that have not been refunded to the project accounts and some expenditure
with insufficient supporting documents. Also recent findings indicated some unretired
advances.

106. NCC: Project's activities and transactions were carried out with a sound internal
control framework. The staffing arrangement and segregation of duties were adequate.
Books of accounts and records were functionally computerized and integrated with
NCC's processes and systems. Financial management rating based on the last supervision
was satisfactory. For procurement, most packages were large with very few post review
contracts. The implementation of the component was satisfactory and activities were
completed earlier than scheduled. Overall, performance of NCC was satisfactory.




                                            26
107. LSWC: Various issues affected the performance of procurement management
under this project component. This included management/coordination, frequent turnover
of project staff including Procurement Officers after capacity building etc. Most of the
cost estimates prepared by it were always far lower than the prices quoted during the
bidding process. This made it impossible to conclude the bidding process smoothly and
award the contracts. Overall, performance of LSWC was moderately unsatisfactory.

108. FCTWB: The performance of FCT Water Board component in financial
management was moderately satisfactory and all outstanding advances were retired over
the last six months of the project, as reflected in the final Financial Management Report
of June 2010. Financial statements for annual audits were produced and submitted timely,
and the banking arrangements were adequate. The project's internal control systems
required some improvements with respect to accounting and audit staffing arrangement,
safeguarding of project assets, financial transaction procedures, segregation and
supervision of accounting duties.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

109. In light of the Government and implementing agencies performance as discussed
above, the overall performance of the Borrower is assessed as moderately satisfactory.

6.      Lessons Learned
      a)    Important factors for the success of a project

110. Having a political champion at the senior Government level is an important
factor for the success of a project, as was the strong legal and institutional foundations
put in place for the implementation of the reform.

111. It is also clear that more careful calibration of the employment effects of a
privatization program and communication of this to stakeholders would have served to
strengthen buy-in from those affected by the reform. More specifically, it is unlikely in
the first phase of post privatization when, for the most part, cost reduction and shedding
of surplus labor is critical to longer-term competitiveness that direct employment effects
are going to be positive. The indirect employment effects, as has been evidenced most
significantly in telecommunications sector, are where the real job growth potential lies.
As the economy liberalizes and productivity in different sectors improves with the inflow
of private sector, value addition in those sectors most impacted does have new
opportunities to grow and generate more sustained employment creation. This message
and programs ­ both communication and skills retraining and adjustment ­ need to be
more carefully integrated into privatization implementation activities.

      b)     Implementation

112. Inter-Agency Coordination: Effective inter-agency coordination and management
of the different institutional agendas and interests across the infrastructure sectors are
important for the smooth implementation of a project. This was seen to be particularly
relevant for the successful realization of the Power, Gas-to-Power and to a lesser extent
transport sector objectives.


                                           27
       c)        Capacity Building

113. It is important to build institutional capacity in project management, financial
management, and procurement at the beginning of the project. In particular, emphasis
should be placed on having adequate procurement capacity in place before project
effectiveness. Thus after conducting procurement capacity assessment of the
implementing agencies, issues identified should be adequately addressed before
effectiveness. Such issue will usually include having adequate procurement capacity,
preparation of draft documents (bidding document, RFPs, TORs etc.)

d)          Privatization

114. Communications Strategy: It is important to have an active and effective
communications strategy that is both pro-active in reaching out to specific stakeholders
(e.g. Assembly members, labor, unions) and the broader public and provide specific
products and services to deal reactively with media commentary and other eventualities.

115.     In order to reduce the risks of failure in future privatization transactions, it is
critical to adhere to the following measures: (a) securing bidders' credibility and
commitment through the enforcement of the collection of non-refundable deposits; (b)
mitigating the risk of non-payment for shares by ensuring that sale proceeds are received
before the coming into force of the sale and purchase agreement and before transfer of
assets; (c) strengthening PE due diligence by BPE, in order to appraise actual and
potential liabilities; (d) streamlining bidding procedures both upstream (at pre-
qualification) and downstream (to avoid post-bid negotiations); (e) improving marketing
campaigns to reach out to a broader investor community; and (f) building greater
consensus with stakeholder prior to actions; (g) ensuring predictable and transparent
transactions actions in line with Policy and Privatization Handbook, to establish integrity
and credibility of process in eyes of all the key stakeholders.

116. Privatization is a process which depends on market conditions. More thorough
upstream investment and risk allocation assessment would have better assisted the
government in the preparation of transactions for market. While BPE capacity to
undertake this due diligence augmented considerably over the life of the project, given
the complexity of many of the sector issues this involved, even deeper institutional
capacity and expertise was required. This would have included more robust IT systems to
record and utilize the considerable diagnostic and technical data that has been
accumulated on the different transactions across the sectors targeted. These lessons
learned have been important to the design of the next generation NEGIP and PPP
projects.

7.          Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
            Agencies/Partners

(a)         Borrower/Implementing Agencies

117. Discussions took place with the implementing agencies in Abuja in December
2010. The meeting provided an opportunity for the stakeholders to comment on the draft



                                            28
ICR and for the Bank staff to discuss with them some of the key issues highlighted in
their Borrower Evaluation Reports (BERs) that had been prepared as input to the ICR in
2009-2010.

118. Overall, all the key stakeholders (BPE, NCC and FCTWP) spoke strongly of the
benefits that had been generated from the project as set out in the BERs that had been
prepared.

(b)    Co-financiers

N/A

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                           29
                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                               Appraisal      Actual /Latest    Percentage of
      Components               Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                             (US$ million)    (US$ million)
 1. General Privatization       39.89              8.86          23.45
 Support
 2. BPE Institutional           12.77              14.42         28.66
 Support
 3. Privatization                8.43              1.12           1.93
 Consensus Building
 4.Telecommunications           16.96              26.56        192.39
 Sector Reform
 5. Electric Power Sector       24.62              13.67         57.92
 Reform
 6. Urban Water Sector
 Reform:
 (a) Lagos Water                11.62              14.76

 (b) FCTWB                       0.00              15.25


 Total Baseline Cost            114.29             94.64
 Total Project Costs            114.29             94.64
 Project Preparation                                              0.00
                                2.00             0.00
 Facility (PPF)
 Total Financing                114.29             94.64
 Required




                                         30
(b)       Co-financing

                                   Appraisal     Actual/Latest
      Source of       Type of                                    Percentage of
                                   Estimate        Estimate
       Funds         Financing                                    Appraisal
                                 (US$ million)   (US$ million)
[Government]                       83.40            4.4
[IBRD/IDA]                        114.29          75.71
Agency for                         16.43
International
Development




                                     31
                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

              Component                                     Output
1.   General Privatization Support      Transactions

                                                165 transactions taken to point of sale
                                                24 Port Concessions

                                        Investment

                                              Approximately US$3.69 billion realized
                                                for national treasury
                                              Approximately US$10 billion annual
                                                transfers to public enterprises saved
2.   BPE Institutional Support          Training

                                                IT training in: secured Cisco wireless
                                                 access point; Cisco Unified
                                                 Communications System- IP PABX
                                                 system

                                        Equipment and Software

                                              Installation of Microsoft Office
                                                  SharePoint 2007 server
                                              Design and deployment of BPE website
                                              Security system
                                              Installation of Project Server for
                                                  enterprise project management
3.   Privatization Consensus Building   Technical Assistance and Policy Work

                                                Privatization Procedure Manual
                                                Post-privatization Monitoring
                                                Framework
                                              Labor, Environment, and Marketing
                                                Policy
                                              Pension Reform Program
4.   Telecommunications Sector Reform   Spectrum Monitoring and Management
                                        Equipment

                                                Central Operation Center
                                                4 Regional Operation Centers
                                                7 transportable mobile monitoring
                                                stations (TMMS)
                                                5 units of V/UHF mobile monitoring
                                                stations with portable monitoring
                                                equipment and 3 SHF mobile monitoring
                                                stations
                                                3 towers for Zonal offices



                                        32
                                    Institutional Strengthening and Resident Advisors

                                            Self-financing Framework
                                            Organizational Restructuring Framework
                                            Operational systems for Commissions

                                    Training and Development

                                            Training for 200+ NCC staff
                                            Equipment for Digital Bridge Institute,
                                            Digital Resource Library, Hands-on
                                            Laboratory

                                    Universal Access Pilot Projects

                                            Establishment of network to 17 local
                                            government areas
                                            Attracted US$50 million in private sector
                                            investment through investment
                                            promotion

                                    Rural Access Strategy Study

                                            Establishment of Universal Service
                                            Provision Fund Secretariat
                                            Rural Access Strategy Study

                                    Telecom Guidelines and Regulations

                                             Quality of Service Guidelines
                                             Consumer Protection Guidelines
                                             Regulations on General Practices of
                                             Competition
                                         Regulations on Universal Access
                                         Regulations on Terminal Equipment
                                             Standardization
                                         Type Approval Guidelines
                                         Numbering Plan Regulations
                                         Internet Service Guidelines
                                         Interconnection Rates, Tariffs and Price
                                             Cap Regulations
5.   Electric Power Sector Reform   Privatization Transactions

                                            Privatization of Egbin Power Plc

                                    Policy Work

                                            Developed and promulgated Electric
                                            Power Sector Reform Act, 2005 (creation


                                    33
                                            of PHCN and NERC from NEPA)
6.   Lagos State Water Corporation   Emergency Rehabilitation

                                              Supply Two engines for EUTZ
                                              Generators and spare parts
                                           Refurbished two alternators
                                           Refurbished four pumps
                                           Refurbished MV switchgear
                                           Refurbished eight generators
                                           Rehabilitated lighting systems, A/C and
                                              fans
                                           Rehabilitated chlorinator plant
                                           Replaced raw water pump motors
                                           Rehabilitated and drilled boreholes at
                                              Surulere
                                           Rehabilitated filters
                                           Serviced transformers
7.   FCTWB                           Infrastructure in Rural and Urban Areas

                                             Extension and rehabilitation of pipeline
                                             network of Karu, Gwagwalada, and
                                             Gwarinpa II
                                             14,000 additional house connections-
                                             5,800 in Gwarinpa II
                                             Provision of water supply to Peg and
                                             Apo
                                             Stabilization of Trunk mains and
                                             provision of water to Giri village, Jiwa
                                             village, Bassan-Jiwa village, Guida
                                             village and Dawaki village (total
                                             population of 110,00)
                                             Installation of 6,520 Nrs. Prepayment
                                             water meters

                                     Technical Assistance and Policy Work

                                             Engineering Design for Kuje Dam and
                                             Treatment Plant
                                             Consumer Survey
                                             Environmental and Social Assessments
                                             System analysis of distribution networks




                                     34
                    Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Background

1.      The PSP Project supported privatization activities in a wide array of forms
including technical assistance, capacity building, civil works, and specific consultancies
aimed at facilitating the government's ability to bring SOE to market. As described both
in the Project Appraisal Document and the restructured mid-term review project
document8, the six components (four when the first three- General Privatization Support,
BPE Institutional Support, and Privatization Consensus Building are all grouped together
and referred to as the "Privatization Program") have catalyzed significant levels of
increased private sector investment in Nigeria, created new jobs in the private sector, and
contributed to the inertia that continues to crowd-in private sector investment in Nigeria.

2.       In total, privatization proceeds over the period of the project amounted to
US$1.89 billion and entailed a total of 165 transactions taken to the point of sale. These
transactions have had great leverage effects in several sectors including telecoms and
ports. As of December 2009, an additional US$3.06 billion has been invested in the
liberalized telecommunications sector9.

3.      While economic and financial analysis cannot be performed with a good degree
of methodological integrity on all of the components of the project, overall analysis can
be completed on the project in its entirety to understand the great leveraging effect the
PSP investments had in Nigeria. Likewise, spot economic analysis can also be performed
on select project components both to provide a project closing summary of the success of
the investment and also to compare with the economic projections done at the time of
Board approval (see PAD).

Overall Project Financial Analysis

4.     The economic analysis of the overall PSP project makes the following
assumptions in order to produce net present value (NPV) and the internal rate of return
(IRR) on project investments:
            Project life is considered over eight years beginning in 2001 and ending
                in 2009;
            Disbursements made after December 31, 2009 are not included into the
                model;
            All currencies are standardized in USD using exchange rates as of
                January 1, 2011 at 1:149.8 US$:Naira;
            Total IDA disbursements are considered expenses in year 0;



8
  Report No. 32425-NG. IDA Proposed Project Restructuring and Amendment of the Credit
Agreements for the Privatization Support Project (Cr. 3520-UNI) and Community Based Urban
Development Project (Cr. 3654-UNI) in the Context of the Portfolio Restructuring and in
Alignment with the CPS for the Federal Republic of Nigeria. June 2, 2005. Also See PSP PAD,
May 21, 2001.
9
  See AM December 2009.



                                             35
                    All categorical expenditures are considered expenses/investment;
                    Revenues are based on recorded FGN net privatization proceeds (159
                    total privatizations considered)10;
                    Discount rate is 12 percent

5.         The results of these calculations on the PSP project are as follows:

           IDA invested:                 IRR:                       NPV:

           $93,057,589                   115%                       $529,914,813.49



           These resulting figures show the impressive returns to the overall project cost.
           The internal rate of return of 115 percent substantiates the financial costs
           invested in the project. This is further strengthened by the high NPV value
           relative to the IDA investment.

Financial Analysis of Component 6- FCT Water Board

6.       The original project appraisal document allocated US$11.62mn to support the
privatization of Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC) and the implementation of an
Emergency Action Plan to support LSWC during the privatization transaction. Following
the 2005 Mid-term Restructuring and the 2006 reallocation, funding for LSWC was
cancelled and the project instead supported the privatization of the Federal Capital
Territory Water Board (FCTWB). Support to FCTWB began in 2006 and continued to
the closing of the project. The project supported improvement of access to potable water
supply in the urban area of FCT through the densification and extension of water supply
distribution network, the stabilization of Trunk Mains and facilitate the development of
private sector participation in water supply.

7.    Financial analysis on FCTWB is based on data provided from the FCTWB
Borrower's Evaluation Report 11. The following assumptions have been made:
            Project life is 10 years;
            Discount rate is set at 12 percent;
            Inflation remains constant;
            All prices standardized in USD using January 1, 2011 conversion rate of
               149.8:1 Naira:USD;
            Revenue projects and cost projects for years 6-10 derived from FCTWB
               financial statement;
            All IDA expenses for FCTWB are accounted as a lump sum invested in
               year 0;
            Projected growth for years 3,4,5 assume a 5 percent increase in profits
               from previous year;
            IDA expenses are calculated up to December 31, 2009;


10
     See Bureau of Public Enterprises Privatization Proceeds from 1999-2009.
11
     FCTWB Borrower's Evaluation Report. December 2009.



                                                36
8.       The resulting NPV and IRR calculations for investments made for FCTWB show
a positive financial result.


IDA Invested:                    IRR:                          NPV:

$16,364,436.8412                 27%                           $34,122,675.03

9.     Attachment A to this Annex shows FCTWB's expenses, profits, and projected
revenues.

10.       While FCTWB was not an original investment covered in the original financial
and economic analysis in the PAD, the analysis performed on LSWC provides a good
comparator against which we can measure the success of FCTWB. The analysis done on
LSWC predicted a financial IRR of 19 percent assuming a 10 percent discount rate13. The
IRR calculated for FCTWB both exceeds the estimated financial IRR for LSWC. Noting
that this analysis used a 12 percent discount rate as opposed to a 10 percent discount rate,
the recalculated IRR for FCTWB incorporating this lower discount rate results in NPV
that is still encouraging (only about US$4 million less). 
           
           
           
           
 
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           
           




12
     Data taken from FCTWB Borrower's Report. December 2009.
13
     See PSP PAD.



                                             37
 
Attachment A: FCTWB Financial Statement Summary
 
                                 0     1    2                                         3         4         5            6          7         8          9         10
Year                      2004       2005       2006       2007       2008          2009    2010       2011        2012       2013       2014       2015       2016
 om
D estic Connections                            34,000     34,000     34,000     34,000     34,000     37,400      37,400     37,400     37,400     37,400     37,400
E ectedR enues
 xp     ev                                  15,727,637 15,727,637 15,727,637 15,727,637 15,727,637 15,727,637 14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768
 ctual ev
A R enues             4,949,266 6,868,491 5,987,383 8,395,194 8,634,179                                        14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768 14,325,768
E ectedC
 xp     osts                                 1,668,892 1,668,892 1,668,892 1,668,892 1,668,892 1,668,892 1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563
 ctual osts
A C                   4,599,132 4,496,996 21,971,379 5,636,515 6,466,956                                        1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563 1,922,563
N Profits
 et                    350,134 2,371,495 -15,983,996 2,758,678 2,167,223 2,275,584 2,389,363 2,508,831 12,403,204 12,403,204 12,403,204 12,403,204 12,403,204 
Note: Final revenues for years 3-5 pending request from FCTWB
 

                                                                                 
                                                                                 
                                                                                 
 




                                                                              39
      Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

         (a) Task Team members
            Names                              Title                 Unit

                               Lead Private Sector Development
Peter Mousley                                                       AFTFW
                               Specialist
Zachary Kaplan                 Economist                            AFTFW
Ndeye Anna Ba                  Program Assistant                    AFTFW
Sati Achath                    Consultant                           EASCS
Adewunmi Cosmas Ameer
                               Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM
Adekoya
Mavis A. Ampah                 Senior ICT Policy Specialist         TWICT
Mary Asanato-Adiwu             Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC
Bayo Awosemusi                 Lead Procurement Specialist          AFTPC
Mourad Belguedj                Consultant                           AFTP4
John P. Byamukama              Financial Analyst                    AFTFE
Irene F. Chacon                Operations Analyst                   AFTFW
Rona P. Cook                   Program Assistant                    AFTFE
Steven R. Dimitriyev           Sr Private Sector Development        AFTFW
Kofi I. Egbeto                 Consultant                           AFMTG
Joseph A. Gadek                Sr Sanitary Engineer                 ETWEA
Syed Waqar Haider              Sr Energy Spec.                      AFTEG
Isabelle Huynh                 Operations Officer                    CITPO
Hassan Madu Kida               Sr Sanitary Engineer                 AFTUW
Andrew Makokha                 Sr Water & Sanitation Spec.          AFTUW
Marilyn Swann Manalo           Consultant                           AFTFW
Astrid Manroth                 Sr Energy Spec.                      AFTEG
Alexander A. McPhail           Lead Water and Sanitation Spec       AFTUW
Iain Menzies                   Senior Infrastructure Specialist     FEUFG
Wamuka Geoffrey Mwamuka        Finance Analyst                      CTRDM
Comfort Onyeje Olatunji        Program Assistant                    SASDO
Adenike Sherifat Oyeyiola      Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Justin Runji                   Sr Transport. Spec                   AFTTR
Justin C. Schwartz             Consultant                           AFTFP
Bent R. Svensson               Program Manager                      COCPO
Prasad V. S. N. Tallapragada   Lead Energy Specialist               AFTEG
Chukwuemeka Ugochukwu          E T Temporary                        AFCW2
Andrea Vasquez-Sanchez         Sr. Program Asst                     AFTFW
Mary Oluseyi Zackius-Shittu    Program Assistant                    AFTSN




                                              41
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                    USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                          No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                    consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                              39                    235.24
  FY01                             122                    620.10
  FY02                               2                      5.44
  FY03                                                      0.00
  FY04                                                      0.00
  FY05                                                      0.00
  FY06                                                      0.00
  FY07                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                      0.00
 Total:                            163                    860.78

Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                                      0.00
  FY01                                                      0.00
  FY02                              55                    232.83
  FY03                              82                    252.44
  FY04                             108                    423.79
  FY05                              84                    329.50
  FY06                              64                    251.11
  FY07                              59                    283.00
  FY08                              31                    154.46
  FY09                              34                    197.07
 Total:                            518                   2124.20




                              42
      Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                      43
              Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

1.       A stakeholders' workshop was organized in Abuja on 18th and 19th November
2009. The workshop was attended by staff from BPE, NCC, FCTWB, NERC, LSWC and
other stakeholders.

2.      The objectives of the workshop were to:

        Review project results against key performance indicators (KPIs);
        Assess project outcomes against deliverables agreed to during the project
        extensions;
        Assess how the project activities have impacted targeted beneficiaries, private
        sector, labor and the economy generally;
        Identify gaps, constraints and challenges faced under the PSP and brainstorm on
        measures for closing such gaps and meeting such challenges in subsequent
        projects:
        Provide a platform for us to consult widely and to sift the best ideas, to give a
        voice to stakeholders and to enable us to receive first hand information on the
        impact of the PSP program; and
        Facilitate stakeholders' awareness on a wider spectrum and consequent buy-in in
        the PSP program.

3.      Workshop reported on the impact of the various activities on the FGN
participating MDA under this program. Workshop reflection on the PSP Program was
divided into two main parts, the first focusing on general training and the second focused
on intervention in each sub-sector- power, transport, telecommunications and water.

General Training, Technical Assistance and Capacity Support

4.      The general consensus on the role of the PSP Project on general training and
capacity building was very positive. The following points summarize the main discussion
points:

        It was felt that the project was instrumental in improving the areas on general
        computing training, top management executive training, specialized sector
        specific training, study tours and on the job training through consultancies
        The cumulative effect of the various training programs attended by BPE staff was
        the transformation of the Bureau into a learning organization and capacity
        building centre. BPE became the reservoir for both knowledge and skills for
        other public service organizations. The Bureau's skills inventory is such that
        almost all manner of skills and competencies can be obtained.
        Recently, state governments desirous of executing development programs
        through partnerships with private sector also approached the Bureau manpower
        requirements.
        Another important indicator of the enhanced capacity in BPE that was
        emphasized at the workshop was the reduced use of external consultants in
        packaging privatization transactions, except highly technical transactions and
        share flotation. Significantly, from 2005, some of the key transactions were


                                           44
        hundred percent carried out in-house in BPE, without external advisers, e.g.
        Nicon Insurance, Nigeria-Re, Transcorp Hilton, etc.

Sector-Specific Support Feedback

5.       Additional break-out discussions were held for each sector- oil and gas, transport,
water, telecommunications, and power. From these discussion, the key lessons learnt and
views of the stakeholders on the PSP experience are summarized below:

        Through the World Bank assistance, Nigeria has been able to utilize international
        resources to develop a home grown policy with far reaching effects;
        The support of the WB has definitely been very positive;
        That reform can improve the performance of government monopolies;
        Reform takes long time in conceptualization, planning and execution and must be
        approached in a comprehensive manner with strong political support;
        All key stakeholders must be involved in the process of planning and execution;
        Reform must be in whole and not in part for desirable result. For example, the
        port congestion that still exists post-concession is due to the poor access to port
        facilities, a factor not considered or factored into the concession process. The
        same is true of the issues with setting the tariffs at the port due to the absence of a
        regulator and clear institutional leader;
        Contracts should not be split to different contractors such that when one fails or
        delays will not stall the completion of the job;
        Given the FGN's experience to date with PSP, the workshop concluded that FGN
        should start with service contracts and gradually graduate upward to concessions
        depending on circumstances of each zone;
        It was agreed that international investors did not seem willing to invest in the
        urban water sector if the FGN does not have a clear concept of the type of project
        and outcome desired;
        PPPs should be pursued more methodically as a ways to invest in Nigeria's
        infrastructure but must be tailored to suit the needs of Nigeria.




                                             45
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Implementation Completion Reports

1.      Implementation Completion Reports were received from Nigerian
Communications Commission (NCC), Federal Capital Territory Water Board (FCTWB),
and Lagos State Water Corporation (LSWC). The Borrower's ICR summarized the
impacts to-date of resources provided under the PSP project, lessons learnt, and financial
performance. The full ICR reports can be referred to for greater details.

Financial Performance Summary

2.      The table below summarizes the financial performance information provided in
the ISR's:

                         Final Allocation                  Disbursement (%)
                         (USD$ million)
NCC                      26.56                             99
FCTWB                    16.4                              65.6
LSWC                     14.4                              n/a

Key Lessons Learnt

3.       Each ICR discussed briefly the key lessons learnt from the project. These are
reflected in more detail in Annex 7 but are summarized below:
     a. World Bank procurement procedures were at times consuming but ultimately
         enhanced the quality of contractors, ensured fairer prices;
     b. The use of key performance indicators was very helpful in setting useful and
         practical targets for growth;
     c. Financial management systems were very useful in facilitating "hitch-free"
         disbursement;
     d. The development of well-articulated project objectives could have been done
         more systematically to help guide the project.

Impact of Program

4.     All ICR's included a section on the key impacts of the programs including the
measured outputs of each intervention. These impacts have been used to form the review
of component impacts and outputs in Annex 2.

ICR Comments

5.     Feedback on the draft ICR was provided by the Bureau of Public Enterprises.
The comments are included below:

6.      Comments on Overall Rating: From the observations in the ICR, the Bureau is
of the view that the performance of the project should have been rated higher. For
instance, the fact that the BPE & NCC were rated "satisfactory" and FCTWB & LSWC
were rated "moderately unsatisfactorily", the Bureau views that the overall rating should



                                            46
average out and the Borrower performance should become "satisfactory" or at least
"moderately satisfactory".

7.       General Observations/Comments: The observations made by the BPE on the
ICR are primarily aimed at improving the overall rating of the project performance, as
well as assist the Bank in understanding the challenges in some specific areas and/or
sectors. [The] Bank should appreciate and accept some responsibility for some of the
difficulties faced in the course of implementation of the project such as:

       Change of guidelines in retirement of advances/allowances towards the closure
       of the project.

       Ineligible expenditures (BPE disbursed on behalf of NERC with the Bank's NO)

       Frequent changes of TTL's with different approaches to project implementation

       Lack of adequate supervision at the beginning and during the course of project
       implementation.

       Lack of a Project Management and Oversight Committee Coordination leading
       to conflicts in implementation by agencies.

8.     PSP has assisted in making the general reform and privatization awareness
program to reform the economy outside of the KPIs and has added other positive impacts
which were not captured and thereby indicating several spillover effects.

9.      In addition, project planning should take into consideration [in] countries like
Nigeria [the] difficult political and socio-economic environment, where so many issues
and factors require consensus building for ease of implementation. There should have
been adequate planning and consultations before the commencement of project
implementation.




                                          47
                      10.

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                  48
                Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   Project Implementation Plan

   Project Appraisal Document for Federal Republic of Nigeria: Privatization
   Support Project (PSP) dated May 21, 2001 (Report No: 21921-UNI)

   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports

   Project Progress Reports

   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated March 2010- FCTWB, LSWC and NCC

   Technical Audit Report of Outstanding Activities under LSWC, dated June 2008

   Final Report: Performance Assessment of Privatized Enterprises, dated
   December 2008




                                     49
                                      Annex 10. Additional Project Performance Indicators


                                                                                   Formally
                                                Original Target Values (from                    Actual Value Achieved at Completion or
      Indicator          Baseline Value                                          Revised Target
                                                    approval documents)                                      Target Years
                                                                                    Values
Indicator 1 :      Reduce Public Enterprise Share of Non-Oil GDP of 60%
Value              No Baseline Established    None Set.
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved      12/16/2002                  06/28/2005                                          12/05/2009
                   Achieved:
Comments
(incl. %
                   This has been easily accomplished taking into account the growth of the private sector economy in telecommunications and
achievement)
                   services (including finance) alone.
Indicator 2 :      Privatized Enterprise Average Performance Increases
                   No baseline established       Productivity +12.5%                           Based on case studies of 10 privatized firms,
                                                                                               estimated gains are as follows:
                                                Investment +62.5%
                                                                                               Productivity: Increases estimated at 1124% in
                                                Output +12.5 %                                 aggregated Naira terms;
Value
(quantitative or                               Leverage ­ 5%                                 Investment: Fixed assets increased 197% after
Qualitative)                                                                                 privatization. This excludes the
                                                                                             telecommunications sector where an estimated
                                                                                             $5.4 billion in investments includes an IFC $100
                                                                                             million investment with MTN and most recent
                                                                                             GSM provider GICELL $50 million investment
                                                                                             with an anticipated further $700 million over the




                                                                    51
                                                                                               period from 2010-2012.

                                                                                               Output: Annual average turnover (sales
                                                                                               revenues or gross earnings) increased 884%
                                                                                               after privatization.

                                                                                               Leverage: No data available on debt\equity
                                                                                               ratios.
Date achieved      12/16/2002                   06/28/2005                                     12/31/2009
                   Mostly Achieved
Comments
(incl. %
                   Subject to acceptance of case study assessments and recognizing that it has not been possible to estimate "leverage"
achievement)
                   outcomes.
                   Net Increase in Employment per Sector
Indicator 3 :
                    (Value quantitative or Qualitative)
                                                30% in privatized and                           Based on the case studies of 10 privatized
                                                liberalized sectors                             companies, the Ports concessions and
                                                                                                telecommunications sector , the evidence
                                                                                                suggests:

                                                                                               - 36% decline in total employment in the ten
Value                                                                                          privatized company case studies (31,587
(quantitative or                                                                               employees down to 20,240).
Qualitative)                                                                                   - Estimated decline from 13,146 employees
                                                                                               previously with NPA down to 8,146
                                                                                               (approximately) after severance payments,
                                                                                               equivalent to a 39% decline.

                                                                                               - In telecoms direct and indirect job creation
                                                                                               since the PSP project is estimated at 21,000 (up




                                                                     52
                                                                                                 from 10,000 prior to liberalization) in direct and
                                                                                                 150,000 in indirect employment. In direct job
                                                                                                 growth terms this amounts to 210% increase.
                                                                                                 The net amount of job creation based on above
                                                                                                 is ­ 5,367 based on direct jobs created and
                                                                                                 +144,633 if indirect job creation is included. In
                                                                                                 percentage terms this is equivalent to about -9%
                                                                                                 or +364% when including indirect and as well
                                                                                                 as direct job creation.
Date achieved      12/16/2002                                                                    12/05/2008
Comments           Achieved
(incl. %
achievement)       Subject to inclusion of indirect job creation in telecommunications sector.
Indicator 4 :      Number of Shareholders and Total Stock Market Capitalization
                                                 200% increase in numbers of                     In 2002 stock market capitalization stood at
                                                 new shareholders and 50%                        N749 billion. In 2007 it reached N10,301 billion
                                                 increase in total stock market                  ­ an increase of 1,275% before falling back
                                                 capitalization                                  N2.2 billion by Feb 2009. This increase,
                                                                                                 equivalent to 294%, is significantly in excess of
                                                                                                 the targeted 50% increase in market stock
Value                                                                                            capitalization.
(quantitative or                                                                                 In terms of the privatized firms reviewed in the
Qualitative)                                                                                     case studies, this alone represented a market
                                                                                                 capitalization increase amounting to 2083%
                                                                                                 with and 435% increase without the privatized
                                                                                                 banks included in the sample.

                                                                                                 The total increase in shareholders for the ten
                                                                                                 companies amounted to an estimated 522,000




                                                                      53
                                                                                           excluding and 2,322,000 including the two
                                                                                           banks in the sample.
Date achieved      12/16/2002                 06/28/2005                                   06/17/2009
Comments           Achieved
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Online Generation, Unit Revenue Receipts and Dispute Resolution in Power Sector
                                              Over 4,000MW of online                            On line peak generation capacity as of
                                              generation capacity;                              August 2010 is estimated at 3,804 MW.
                                                                                                Often it is lower.

                                              Unit Revenues in excess of N4                     Despite current tariff of 8.5 Kw\h,
Value
                                              Kw\h                                              estimated losses from most discos,
(quantitative or
                                                                                                together with tariff collection rates that
Qualitative)
                                              75% of disputes resolved                          range from 23% (Yola Disco) to a high of
                                              effectively.                                      62% (Ikeja Disco) significantly reduced
                                                                                                final unit revenues below target.

                                                                                                No record of dispute resolution.
Date achieved      12/16/2002                 06/28/2005                                        12/05/2008
Comments           Not Achieved
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                                  54
                                                                                   To Tahoua                                                                        To Agadez                                    To Nguigmi
                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°E                                                                                            15°E

                                                                                               Illela                                                                                                                          NIGER                                                            1963 Level

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                e                        1973 Level
                             NIGER                                                SOKOTO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ob
                                                        To                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Y
                                                       Kandi                                   Sokoto                                                   Katsina                                                                                                                                                2001 Level
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nguru                                              Oamasak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Yobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    b
                                                                           ma                                               Kaura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Lake Chad
                                                                      Ri                                          S        Namoda                               S a h e l Hadejia                                                           Gan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               a




                                                                                                                  o
                                                                                                                  ok
                                                                                                                       o                       K AT S I N A                                                                              gu




                                                                                                                    ot
                                                                                                                    o
                                                         Birnin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ORNO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                B ORN O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  u
                                                                                                                                                                                   J I G AWA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                                                         Kebbi




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 aar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Y OB E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OBE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ma
                                                                                                                      Gusau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHAD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jam
                                                                                                         Z A M FAR A
                                                                                                           AM                                                     Kano                                                                                                      Maiduguri
                                                           KE BB
                                                           KEB B I                                                                                                                           Dutse                              Pokiskum             Damaturu
                                         To               Nig
                                        Kandi                 er
                                                                                                                                                                    K AN O

                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ngola




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
                                                                                                                                                  Zaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Go




                                                                                                                                                                                             Bunga




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          G OM B E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OMB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    M
                                                                                                                                                                                        BAUCHI
                                                                                                                                                      Kaduna                                                                                                    Biu
                     BENIN                                  Kainji
                                                                                                  Kontagora
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bauchi
                                                           Reservoir                                                                                  KADUNA                                                                                 Gombe
                                                                                                                                    a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ra
                                                                                                                              dun
                 10°N                                          Wawa              NIGER
                                                                                                                            Ka                   Ba u c h i                                                                                                                                                                 10°N
                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos
                    To
                                                                                                                                                P l a te a u




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          da
                    Bori
                                                                                                                                Minna




                                                                                                                                                                                 Jos
                                                                                                                                                                                 J s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Man
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         e




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    nu
                                                                                                                                                                                             P L AT E A U




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AW
                                                                                            N ig                                                 ABUJA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Yola




                                                                                                                                                                                   Plat
                                                                                                er




                                                                                                                                                                                    la
                                                                           K WA R A                                                FEDERAL                                                      Shendam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AM
                                                                                                                                   CAPITAL                                                                                                   Jalingo




                                                                                                                                                                                       eau
                                                                                                                             Baro TERRITORY




                                                                                                                                                                                        au
                                                                                Ilorin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AD
                                                                                                                                                                         Lafia
                                                                                                                                                  N AS AR AWA
                                                                                                                                                    AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NIGERIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ta
                                                   O YO
                                                   OYO                                                                                                                                                                    ab




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ar
                                                                                                                                                      Benue                                                                 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bali
                                                           Oshogbo                         EKI T I
                                                                                           EK IT                                     Lokoja                                                          Wukari
                                                                                                Ado-Ekiti                                                     Makurdi                                           TA R A B A
                                                                                                                           KOGI
                                                  Ibadan
                                                                   OSUN                     Akure                                                                 BENUE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    s.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mt
                                  Abeokuta                                                                                                                                                                                 Chappal Waddi
                                                                                     ONDO                                                                         Udi Hills                                                    (2,419 m )
                                      OGUN                                                                                                                                                                                       Go
                                                                                                             EDO                                                                                                                             th
                                                                                                                                               ENUGU
                  To                                                                                                                                  Enugu
                                                  LAGOS
                                                                                                                                    ANA




                 Lomé                                                                       Benin                                                               Abakaliki
                                                 Lagos                                       City
                                                                                                                                      A
                                                                                                                                      AMB




                                                                                                                      Asaba                    Awka       EBONYI                                                                                                                           NIG ERIA
                                                                                                                                          RA
                                                                                                                                          RA
                                                                                                                                          RA




                                                                                             Sapete                                                                                                                      CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                           Nige




                                                                                                                                                                   CROSS                                                                                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                        D E LTA                         Owerri         Umuahia
                                                                                                          Warri                                                    RIVER                                                                                                                   STATE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                        IMO ABIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
                 5°N                                                                                                          RIVERS              Aba       Uyo                                                                                                         5°N
                                                                                                        Yenogoa                                        AKWA-         Calabar        To
                                                                                                                    Port                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                Gulf            of        Guinea                                        BAYELSA Harcourt                                IBOM                       Doula
                                                                                            N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MAIN ROADS
                                                                                               ig




                                                                                                     er                                                                                                     0            50         100            150     200 Kilometers
                                                                                                           Delta                                                                                                                                                                           RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 33458
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STATE BOUNDARIES
                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                            0                   50                   100          150 Miles
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                    Bioko I.                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                     5°E                                                       (EQ. GUINEA)                                          10°E
