Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No2025a-GUI
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
August 15, 1978
Projects Department
Education Division
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        Syli
US$1.00            =        20 Syli
Syli 1.00          =        US$0.05
MEASURES
1 m              =         3.28 ft.
1 m              =10.76 sq.ft.
1 km2            =         0.38 sq.mile
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (since 1977)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
I.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .............................                  1
A.    Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector .... .....                1
B.   The Education Sector:   Characteristics and Main Issues ...    2
Organization and Management .....          ...................      *-    2
Structure of the Education System                     .        .          3
Access to Education ......................                                 5
Relevance and Quality ....................................                 5
Education Costs and Finance ..............................                6
Manpower and Employment .....          ..........................          7
C.   Government's Education Policies and Programs  .             ............   9
D.    Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector ....               ............   10
II.  THE PROJECT         .........................     ..........................    10
Objectives and Composition ....................................   10
Institute for Instructor Training .............................   il
Secondary Polytechnic Institutes ..............................    12
Instructional Staff ...........................................   13
Staff Housing .................................................    14
Educational Planning ..........................................    14
III. COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN ........................   15
Cost of the Project ...........................................    15
Financing Plan ................................................   17
Project Recurrent Costs .......................................   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Guinea in October 1977. The mission consisted of Messrs. W. Cooper
(technical educator and mission leader), P. Bussat (architect), M. Meyer
(economist) and R. Rabeharisoa (loan officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwisc be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . .......................................  18
Execution of the Project ............     ..........................  18
Project Unit .18
Technical Assistance and Fellowships ......       ....................  19
Site Selection ................................................  19
Procurement ................................................    20
Disbursements ................................................  20
Revolving fund ................................................  20
Accounts and Audits ............................................  21
V.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........      ..........................  21
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ......        ..................  22
ANNEXES
1.   Supporting Tables and Charts
1.1 Organigram - Ministry of Education
1.2 Structure of the Education System
1.3 Comparative Education Indicators
1.4 Education Pyramid
1.5  Enrollments and Teachers in the Education System
1.6 Recurrent Education budget
1.7 Modern Sector Manpower Requirements,1976-1985
1.8 Needs for Skilled Workers in Selected Agencies
1.9 Project Cost Summary
1.10 Contingency Allowances
1.11 Project Implementation Schedule
1.12 Summary of Technical Assistance and Fellowships
1.13 Schedule of Disbursements
2.   List of Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map - IBRD 13575R



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
MDEC      Ministry of Education                    Ministère du domaine de l'éducation
et de la culture
PDG       Democratie Party of Guinea               Parti démocratique de Guinée
IPS       Secondary Polytechnic Institute          Institut polytechnique secondaire
IPS-A     Secondary Polytechnic Institute          Institut polytechnique secondaire
(Teacher Training Annex)                d'application
IPS-GC    Secondary Polytechnic Institute          Institut polytechnique secondaire
(Public Works)                          génie civil
IFI       Training Institute for IPS               Institut de formation des
Instructors                             instructeurs
ENAM      National School of Arts                  Ecole nationale des arts et métiers
and Trades
MES       Modules of Employable Skills             Modules de qualifications
utilisables
ILO       International Labour Office              Bureau international du travail






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
Basic Data
Total population (1977 est.)                    4.7 million
Est. rate of population growth                  2.8% p.a.
Per capita GNP (1977)                           US$230
Central Government expenditures on education:
As a percentage of GDP                        4.3%
As a percentage of total
Government expenditure                     20%
Recurrent costs per student:
Primary                                       US$52
Secondary                                     US$135
Lower university                              US$153 - 690
Upper university                              US$935 - 1,994






1.  TUE EUACXiINis  ND TRAINit  SECTOR
A.   Social and Economic Factors Affecting the Sector
1.01      Guinea has a land area of 246,000 km  and a population of about
4.7 million (1977 estimate), growing at 2.8% per year. It has about 300 km
of coastline on the Atlantic Ocean and borders Guinea-Bissau, Senegal and
Mali to the north, Ivory Coast to the east, and Liberia and Sierra Leone
to the south. There are eight official national languages besides French,
which is spoken only by the formally educated. About 85% of the population
live in rural areas. Public administration is closely interwoven with and
controlled by institutions of the country's only political party, the
Democratic Party of Guinea (PDG).
1.02       Substantial natural resources in the rural sector and in mining
make Guinea potentially one of the richer West African countries. The
broad range of eco-climatic zones allows the production of a variety of
agricultural commodities, including foodcrops such as rice, cassava and
maize, and export crops such as coffee, pineapples and bananas. The
country is also well suited for cattle raising. Mineral deposits include
significant quantities of bauxite and iron-ore.
1.03       Since independence in 1958, the GNP is estimated to have increased
by less than 2.5% per year, which resulted in a slight decline of per capita
incomes. During this period the Government emphasized the development of
transport infrastructure, mining and manufacturing at the expense of
agriculture, which is the source of employment and income for most of the
population. Also, in pursuit of economic independence and self-reliance,
the Government developed a centrally planned economy, with trade, banking
and manufacturing handled almost exclusively by state enterprises. Ful-
fillment of Guinea's economic aims, however, was hampered by severe shortages
of skilled manpower. Poor performance of the modern sector, combined with
a decline in the agricultural sector, which reverted from an evolving market
economy to subsistence agriculture, led to severe balance of payments dif-
ficulties and import restrictions, and finally resulted in economic stagnation.
1.04      In 1972, economic conditions started to improve.  Since then, GNP
has grown at about 7% per year, reaching US$230 per capita in 1977, and foreign
earnings have increased as a result of exports by the major bauxite mining
operations. Through conservative monetary and fiscal policies, the Govern-
ment has also succeeded in reducing inflationary pressures and improving
the recurrent budget position.
1.05      Prospects for economic growth are expected to remain favorable
for the next ten years. Recent forecasts 1/ indicate that GNP in real terms
might grow by 6.5% to 7.5% per year and exports in real terms by 11% to 14%
1/   Guinea - Medium term Macro-economic Framework (Report No. 1621-GUI),
World Bank, May 31, 1977.



per year. The Government continues to emphasize the expansion of the mining
sector: extensions of existing bauxite mines and development of two new
large-scale bauxite and iron-ore mining projects are expected to absorb
about 75% of total investments from 1976 to 1985. The investment in mining
is expected to result in considerable growth of the construction and trans-
port sectors. The Government intends to use the financial resources to
be generated by increased mining exports primarily for development of the
rural areas and for rehabilitation of the manufacturing industry and public
utilities.
B.   The Education Sector:  Characteristics and Main Issues
1.06      Since independence in 1958, the Government has pursued educational
policies that diverge significantly from those inherited from the French
education system and from those of other West African countries. The major
characteristics of these policies are:
(a)  education is intended to be mandatory for all grades of
primary and secondary school;
(b) national languages are used in all primary schools and are
being introduced at the secondary level;
(c) productive work is part of the curriculum at all levels;
(d) the Government assigns all school graduates to jobs;
(e) the education system is linked to the political party (PDG)
at the local, regional and national levels.
Organization and Management
1.07      The organization chart at Annex 1.1 shows the interrelationship
between the PDG and the education system. Policy decisions in the education
sector are taken by the National Congress of the PDG and its Council of
Education. The education system is administered by the Ministry of Education
and Culture (MDEC), one of eight high-ranking ministries (Ministères de
Domaine). Three dependent ministries -- Ministry of Pre-university Education
and Literacy Training, Ministry of Higher Education and Distance Learning, and
Ministry of Youth and Sports -- have direct responsibility for school administ-
ration and support services. An extensive administrative network of seven
regional inspectorates and 35 sub-regional offices supports the widely dis-
persed schools. School directors and education officials are supervised by
the various community committees of the PDG.
1.08      Educational planning is conducted by the planning office (Bureau
d'études) within MDEC. This office is not adequately staffed and equipped
to prepare long-range strategy and development plans for education; much of
its time is taken up by routine administrative tasks such as budgeting,
statistics and student placement. A small school-construction unit within
MDEC is responsible for coordinating and supervising the construction and
maintenance of schools.



-3-
structure of the Education System
1.09      Annexes 1.2-1.5 provide general information on the structure of
the education system and statistical data on the distribution of students,
enrollments and teaching staff.
1.10      Primary school is six years and admits students from the age of
seven. In 1976/77, about 226,000 pupils representing 30% of the 7-12 age
group were enrolled in 2,100 primary schools (Annex 1.5). About two-thirds
of primary school beginners complete the six grades. There are considerable
regional differences in enrollment ratios that range from over 40% of the
age group in Conakry and N'Zérékoré to about 18% in the Labé Region. Low
enrollment ratios appear to be associated with low average income, difficult
conditions in communications and transport, and the dearth of important urban
centers.
1.11      Secondary school consists of a three-year lower cycle (grades 7 to
9) and a three-year upper cycle (grades 10 to 12). An additional grade 13,
during which students were required to work in rural communities, was
eliminated with the 1977/78 school year. In recent years, 80 to 90% of
primary school graduates entered one of the more than 300 secondary schools,
located mostly in district towns and regional centers. Total secondary
enrollment in 1976/77 was about 80,000, representing 13% of the 13-18 age
group (Annex 1.5). Enrollment ratios are unevenly distributed, ranging from
22% in Conakry to 8% in the Labé Region. The secondary curriculum consists
of a common block of general academic subjects, emphasizing mathematics and
natural sciences, that provides the basis for higher education, and vocational
specializations linked to productive activities in agriculture and industry.
Agriculture is taught in both the lower and the upper cycle and agricultural
production is of considerable importance in secondary schools: 20 to 30% of
the school week is dedicated to the cultivation of land, livestock raising
and crafts, and the income from sales helps to finance the operating costs of
secondary schools.
1.12      Vocational training is provided by the secondary polytechnic in-
stitutes (Instituts Polytechniques Secondaires - IPS). Ten institutes were
created in 1975 by converting existing secondary technical schools (lycées
techniques) that already had some facilities for practical training. Total
IPS enrollment in 1976/77 was about 1,400 (Annex 1.5), and specialized train-
ing was provided in a number of industrial trades such as mining, railways,
ship construction and repair, general mechanics, and public works.
1.13      University Education.  In 1975 the structure of university educa-
tion was modified by the creation of two levels or cycles: a two-year lower
university cycle (faculté) with the dual function of training people for
productive employment and providing basic teaching for the professions, and
a three- or four-year upper university cycle (institut polytechnique) for
professional training at degree level. About 90% of secondary school gradu-
ates are admitted to the lower cycle university institutes. These institutes
provide technician level training in a variety of fields, including agricul-
ture, education, administration, health, and engineering. Total enrollment



- 4 -
at the institutes in 1976/77 was about 14,200, representing 8% of the 20-21
age group. Enrollments in agricultural institutes and primary teacher train-
ing institutes are relatively high, reflecting the important training needs
in these sectors, as shown in the following table:
Enrollment Distribution in the Lower University Cycle, 1976/77
No. of
Diploma Course                        Students          Percentage
Agriculture (incl. Veterinary
Science and Forestry)   6,890                 48.5
Primary Teacher Training               3,040                21.4
Administration                         2,040                14.4
Health                                 1,320                 9.3
Engineering                              910                 6.4
Total                   14,200               100
The majority of students enter productive employment after graduation and only
a relatively small number are admitted to the upper university cycle.
1.14      At the upper cycle there are two universities (Conakry and Kankan)
and two decentralized university departments (agronomy at Foulayah and mining
engineering at Boké), with a 1976/77 total enrollment of about 3,560 students,
representing 1.5% of the 22-25 age group. Enrollment distribution by major
field of study is as follows:
Enrollment Distribution in the Upper University Cycle, 1976/77
No. of
Degree Course                        Students          Percentage
Secondary Teacher Training            1,280               35
of which Natural Sciences:           (690)             (19)
Social Sciences:                     (590)             (16)
Agriculture                             765               21
Management, Economics, Law              730               20
Engineering                             475               13
Medicine, Pharmacy, Chemistry           400                il
Total                   3,650               100



In addition, approximately 1,500 students are being trained abroad, mainly in
Cuba and Eastern European countries. Teaching staff for both university cycles
is 79% Guinean. Expatriate teaching staff is concentrated in the upper cycle.
Access to Education
1.15      Enrollment of girls still lags behind that of boys in all regions.
Thirty-four percent of students in primary school are girls, representing
21% of the female 7-12 age group. The proportion of girls declines to 26%
in secondary school, 20% in the lower university cycle and 12% in the upper
university cycle. In recent years the PDG has instructed the local com-
munities to admit equal numbers of girls and boys to primary school. As a
result, the proportion of girls in the first grade of primary school increased
from 33% in 1974/75 to 39% in 1975/76, and further increases can be expected.
1.16      Educational opportunities are not confined to formal education.
Since 1972, a mass literacy program in the eight national languages has been
conducted by the MDEC and PDG in villages and enterprises; initial literacy
courses of about three months are conducted by specially trained primary
teachers using simple manuals prepared by MDEC. Passing a literacy test is
a prerequisite for election to representative and executive positions in the
PDG. Regional training centers for women provide opportunities for literacy
and skill training. No evaluation is yet available on any of these programs.
Relevance and Quality
1.17      Asserting a policy of cultural self-reliance since independence,
Guinea has adapted, in important respects, the content of education to national
needs. At the primary and secondary levels, new and well-adapted curricula
are being developed. The eight national languages are used as teaching media
in primary school and are now also being introduced in the lower grades of
secondary school. Productive work, particularly in agriculture, is an important
part of the curriculum at all levels of the education system. Agriculture is
taught in the majority of secondary schools and has become the most important
field of study in higher education.
1.18      The quality of teaching, however, is adversely affected by an insuf-
ficient supply of teaching materials and a scarcity of qualified teachers.
Only 18% of primary teachers have adequate teaching qualifications and more
than 60% of secondary teachers have only been trained to the level of primary
school teachers. Agricultural technicians and higher civil servants, who
are required to teach at least four hours per week at the secondary or post-
secondary level, complement the regular teaching staff. Recent construction
of five teacher training institutes should significantly increase the number
of qualified teachers and thus improve the quality of teaching at both the
primary and secondary levels. There is inadequate provision of educational
materials and school supplies, which is particularly critical for the teaching
of natural sciences and agriculture.



- 6 -
1.19      In the newly created secondary polytechnic institutes (para. 1.12)
critical shortages of teaching materials and a lack of qualified staff impair
the quality of training. Vocational instructors generally have little in-
dustrial and teaching experience, and for some technical specializations there
are no instructors available.  Workshop and laboratory equipment is often not
adapted to industrial training needs, and in several schools the equipment
has become obsolete. Under these difficult circumstances, the Government has
not been able to develop vocational training courses that respond adequately
to the training needs of the industrial sector.
Education Costs and Finance
1.20      Central Government expenditures for education (Annex 1.6) are
moderate by international standards. In fiscal year 1975/76, total Govern-
ment expenditures for education represented about 4.3% of GDP, while recurrent
education expenditures accounted for about 20% of the budget. Between 1972
and 1976, recurrent costs for education decreased slightly in absolute terms
due to low enrollment growth, stable teacher salaries, the abolition of
boarding at pre-university level, and low expenditures for teaching supplies.
This trend has been reversed and the share of recurrent education expenditures
in the budget is estimated to increase from about 20% in 1975/76 to about 22%
in 1977, mainly as a result of increased provision for teaching supplies and
equipment (para. 1.22).
1.21      On the basis of the official exchange rate, recurrent costs per
student are low in comparison with countries with a similar per capita income.
In fiscal 1975/76 these costs reached US$52 in primary school, US$135 in
secondary school, US$153-690 in post-secondary institutes, and US$935-1,994
in the upper university cycle. It is expected, however, that the improvement
in teacher qualifications resulting from the creation of several new teacher
training schools (para. 1.18) will increase unit costs substantially over the
next few years. Even with these expected cost increases, the recurrent costs
are expected to remain well below those in other West African countries.
1.22      Accurate data on capital outlay by type and level of education
are not available. At the pre-university level, however, regional and local
authorities are largely responsible for the construction, furnishing and
maintenance of primary schools. The Government also encourages local parti-
cipation in recurrent financing of education: in 1975, receipts from school
production (agriculture and crafts) accounted for 13% of the total operating
costs for secondary schools. Since 1976, small school fees have been levied
to maintain Government recurrent expenditures for education at a moderate
level and to allow for the purchase of basic school supplies.  The main
obstacle, however, to an adequate supply of teaching materials and equipment
has not been the lack of local funds but the availability of imported supplies,
a consequence of the low import capacity of the Guinean economy. As foreign
exchange earnings are now increasing, the Government's eduation budget for
1977 more than doubles the provision for teaching supplies and equipment as
compared with the 1975/76 budget.



-7-
Manpower and Employment
1.23      In 1975, Guinea's working-age population numbered about 2.3 million.
A large part of the population works in rural areas, mainly in traditional
farming. Only 126,000 workers, or 6% of the working-age population, are wage
earners. Of these, about 33,000 are employed in public administration, while
the remaining 93,000 work in public or para-statal enterprises, mainly in
mining or industry and in the primary sector. The modern sector labor force
generally has low professional qualifications except at the top of the
occupational ladder and in the mining industry. Organized training of
skilled workers for industry has been limited to a few big enterprises in
the mining and railway sectors. Most semi-skilled workers have acquired some
vocational skills through on-the-job training. The difficult economic condi-
tions after independence (para. 1.03) have slowed down traditional apprentice
training normally provided by small-scale industrial and artisanal activities,
such as mechanical workshops, carpentry and cabinet making, and automechanics.
1.24      The level of investment in all sectors of the economy, which is
expected to continue in the wake of the expanding mining industry, will
require that the Government improves the technical skills of its labor force.
Latest forecasts (Annex 1.7) show that an estimated 13,000 jobs will be
created annually from 1976 to 1985 through new employment and replacement
of existing labor. Demand will be highest in construction and mining (41%
of total requirements), followed by public administration (29%), the services
sector (17%) and primary sector activities (13%). Projections of the demand
for skilled manpower by occupational level and the estimated supply from
the education system are shown below.



- 8 -
Manpower Supply and Demand in the Modern Sector, 1976-1985
(Average Annual Figures)
Category of Manpower                 Demand      Supply                Source
Professionals, managers
teachers and technicians          1,450       1,200       Upper university cycle
4,500      Lower university cycle
and primary teacher
training schools 1/
Skilled workers                     3,500         550       Secondary Polytechnic
Institutes (IPS) and
company-managed train-
ing centers
Semi-skilled workers                3,500         n.a.      School leavers 2/ plus
on-the-job training
Unskilled                           4,750         n.a.      School leavers 2/
Source: Annex 1.7 and mission estimates based on information provided
by the MDEC.
1/   Lower university graduates are often employed as skilled and semi-
skilled workers.
2/   Scarcity of available statistics prevents reliable estimates of
numbers of school leavers.
The requirements for professionals and technicians will be covered to a large
extent by graduates from the upper university cycle. In many sectors, graduates
from the lower university cycle will be employed in skilled or even semi-skilled
jobs. This will be particularly true for graduates from the agricultural
institutes, who represent almost 50% of total output, and for graduates
specialized in clerical work.
1.25      In the area of industrial training, the supply of skilled workers
and technicians covers only about 50% of the expected annual demand:  approxi-
mately 200 industrial technicians graduate from the National School of Arts
and Trades (ENAM) each year, and the newly created secondary polytechnic
institutes (IPS) are expected to produce about 550 skilled workers per annum.



Bank-assisted projects in highways, feeder roads, water supply and elec-
tricity, projected for the 1978-82 period, are expected to place considerable
demands on the already scarce manpower resources at the skilled worker level
(Annex 1.8).
C.   Goverriment's Education Policies and Programs
1.26      The National Congress of the PDG and the Council of Education
establish long-range objectives for education and formulate educational policy
for implementation by the Ministry of Education. Over the years, the Govern-
ment has established a set of policies for pre-university education that now
govern the development and operation of primary and secondary schools. At
the university level, however, the situation is less clear: frequent changes
in organizational structure and program content have occurred in the last few
years and further revisions are expected to be made. The Government's key
objectives for educational development are to:
(a) Increase access to primary education, particularly for girls.
It is expected that primary enrollments will increase sub-
stantially (15% to 20% per year during the next few years)
as a result of the increased number and quality of primary
teachers (para. 1.18).
(b) Maintain wide access to secondary education and establish
job-oriented, practical training.
(c) Improve the quality of teaching at the secondary and post-
secondary levels. In secondary schools, emphasis will be
given to improving the teaching of science and agriculture
through better teacher training and the provision of elemen-
tary laboratory and agricultural equipment. In the post-
secondary university institutes, agriculture and teacher
training are expected to remain major areas of concentration.
(d) Increase the opportunities for basic education of adults by
expanding the existing national literacy program and the
skill training schemes for women.
(e) Increase the planning and implementation capacity of the
Ministry of Education by strengthening MDEC's planning office
so that operational targets can be defined, employment needs
analyzed and the cost-efficiency of education and training
programs improved.
(f) Increase the participation of regional and village authorities
in sharing the financial and management responsibilities for
education.



- 10 -
D.   Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
1.27      The Bank's knowledge of the detailed functioning of the Guinean educa-
tion system and the effectiveness of the Government's education policy is still
limited since a working relationship with Guinean education officials has only
recently been established. A distinct feature of the Guinean education system
is the strong link between the Ministry of Education and the national political
party. In the past, educational policies were frequently modified by political
authorities without always paying due consideration to constraints in policy
implementation.
1.28      Under these conditions, the Bank Group's strategy is to lend for
investments to satisfy clearly identified and high-priority manpower needs
where project implementation does not unduly strain the country's administra-
tive and management capabilities. In carrying out this strategy the Bank
Group is following two approaches: lending for project-related training, and
lending for the development of important and well-defined subsectors of the
education system. As part of the first approach, the Bank has begun to intro-
duce training components into ongoing highway and proposed water supply
projects, and intends to follow a similar practice for projects in the energy
and agricultural sectors. Consistent with the second approach, the project
proposed in this report would support the expansion and improvement of formal
technical education. We expect that the implementation of the first education
project, plus the training components of other Bank projects, will provide the
insights, knowledge and experience required to expand lending for education
and training. For this purpose, the proposed project includes provision of
funds for project evaluation, planning, and future project preparation.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Composition
2.01      The project is designed to assist the Government in improving and
expanding training programs for industrial technicians and skilled workers.
The project's emphasis would be on institution building and quality improve-
ments, and new programs to train and upgrade technical instructors would be
an important project feature. The principal objectives of the project are to:
(a) Improve the quality and efficiency of the existing secondary
polytechnic institutes by:
(i) updating their training programs;
(ii) improving the technical and pedagogical qualifi-
cations of their instructors; and
(iii) establishing closer links with employers.
(b) Expand the capacity for training skilled workers for industry
and public works by constructing two new polytechnic institutes.



- il -
(c)  Strengthen the Government's capacity for educational planning
and project implementation.
2.02      The project would comprise:
(a)  Construction, furniture and equipment for:
(i)  a llO-capacity institute to train and upgrade instructors
for secondary polytechnic institutes;
(ii)  two polytechnic institutes, with a combined capacity of
about 400 students, to train and upgrade skilled workers
for industry and public works; and
(iii)  accommodations for instructional staff.
(b)  Equipment and materials for the planning office of the Ministry
of Education and for a project management unit.
(c)  Provision of 36 man-years of technical assistance and consultant
services and 30 man-years of fellowships for items (a) and (b)
above.
Institute for Instructor Training
2.03      The proposed credit would finance the construction, furnishing and
equipping of an institute for instructor training with a capacity of about
110 students, located on the outskirts of Conakry. The institute would be
the first of its kind in Guinea and would train technical instructors for the
recently established network of secondary polytechnic institutes (para 1.12).
Conakry was selected as the location for the institute because of its proximity
to the university and the National School of Arts and Trades (ENAM), and to
four existing polytechnic institutes where students would go for practice
teaching.
2.04      The institute would provide one-year pre-service courses in teacher
training and technical skill upgrading, and would produce 60 to 80 instructors
per year for the secondary polytechnic institutes. Provision would also be
made for in-service training of technical and administrative personnel such
as school principals, administrative officers, workshop supervisors and
storekeepers. Student instructors would normally be recruited from three
sources: (a) graduates from technician programs at ENAM, preferably with
some industrial experience; (b) qualified and experienced technicians from
industry; and (c) instructors presently working in polytechnic institutes.
2.05      The institute would be equipped with workshops for the production
of audio-visual materials and instructional aids and with specialized class-
rooms for small-group teaching techniques and lesson preparation. The
institute would also be provided with a library/documentation center that
would serve as a national resource center for all polytechnic institutes,
and with a central store to control distribution of materials and supplies
to all institutes.



- 12 -
2.06      The credit would finance a technical teacher training specialist
for 3-1/2 years to act as adviser to the Guinean director of the institute
and assist in establishing the institute. In addition, the credit would
finance nine subject specialists for 2-1/2 years each to set up instructor
training courses in general mechanics, auto mechanics, diesel mechanics,
welding, electricity, masonry, carpentry, metal working, and plumbing.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment of tech-
nical assistance personnel financed under the project are to be acceptable
to IDA.  The proposed one-year training programs would consist of three major
elements of about equal duration: skill upgrading in one of the technical
specialties, pedagogy and instructional methodology specifically applied
to workshop instruction, and supervised teaching practice. Student instruc-
tors would be taught in the use of specially developed training techniques
based on so-called "modules of employable skills" (MES) that will also be
introduced in the secondary polytechnic institutes (para. 2.11). To assure
that these training programs are adapted to the needs of polytechnic institute
instructors and to permit timely changes in program structure or content if
required, the Government would be required to finance and carry out an
evaluation of the instructor training programs after the first group of
trainees have graduated. Preparation of detailed terms of reference and a
scope of work for the carrying out of such evaluation would be financed by the
credit. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that such evaluation will be carried out by MDEC not later than June 30, 1983,
and the results forwarded to IDA.
Secondary Polytechnic Institutes
2.07      In support of the Government's policy for development of secondary-
level technical training (para. 1.26), the credit would finance the construc-
tion, furnishing and equipping of two polytechnic institutes with a combined
enrollment of about 400 students and an annual output of about 180 skilled
workers in nine industrial occupations. One institute, with an enrollment
of about 120, would be attached to the institute for instructor training
(para. 2.03) and would provide facilities for skill training and teaching
practice of technical instructors. The second institute, with an enrollment
of about 280, would specialize in training skilled workers for the public
works sector.
2.08      The polytechnic institute annexed to the instructor training insti-
tute would be designed and equipped to perform two functions: (a) skill
upgrading and instruction in workshop techniques and practices for instructors
undergoing training, and (b) regular full-time skilled worker training in four
industrial trades (general mechanics, auto mechanics, welding, electricity).
Provision would also be made for part-time and upgrading courses for employed
industrial workers.
2.09      The second institute, specializing in training for the public works
sector, would provide two-year full-time courses to train skilled workers in
construction trades such as masonry, carpentry, plumbing and metal working.
The institute would also have specialized facilities to train diesel mechanics
and heavy equipment mechanics for the Ministry of Public Works.



- 13 -
2.10      Full-time skill training programs at the two institutes would
normally be of two years' duration (grades 11 and 12) and would include a
four-month practical attachment to industry. The 40-hour weekly timetable
would be approximately equally divided between workshop practice and class-
room instruction in trade theory and supporting academic subjects. Curricula
would be based on a modular training system developed by IL0 (modules of
employable skills-MES) that would allow flexibility in both program content
and duration of training. Course syllabi would be developed by the nine
subject specialists financed under the project (para. 2.06) with the assis-
tance of technical committees representing the various employers (para. 2.14).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that an
evaluation of these modular training programs will be financed and carried out
by MDEC not later than June 30, 1983, about one year following the first
graduation. Preparation of detailed terms of reference and a scope of work
for the carrying out of such evaluation would be financed by the credit. If
this evaluation shows that the modular training system provides an effective
way of training skilled workers for productive employment, modular training
methods may be introduced in other polytechnic institutes throughout the
country.
Instructional Staff
2.11      The credit would finance nine instructor training specialists for
2-1/2 years each to establish training programs at the instructor training
institute (para. 2.06) and provide professional guidance and on-the-job train-
ing for Guinean staff. Future instructor trainers would be recruited from
teaching staff currently employed at the National School of Arts and Trades
(ENAM), from the technical faculties of the university, or directly from
industry.
2.12      The credit would finance 20 man-years of fellowships to provide
additional professional or technical training to future teaching staff of the
instructor training institute. To ensure that trained Guinean staff would
be ready to take over from the technical assistance personnel, the fellowship
program would start no later than September 1979. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Governnent that ten fellowship candidates,
suitably qualified to become teacher trainers for the instructor training
institute, will be identified and recruited not later than June 30, 1979, and
that the fellowship holders will be required, after training, to serve at
least three years in the positions for which they were trained.
2.13      For the two polytechnic institutes, an initial group of about 20
instructors would be recruited and appointed about three months prior to the
start of instruction at the institutes. These instructors would come from
teaching staff at other polytechnic institutes and from ENAM graduates. They
would be given on-the-job training by the technical assistance personnel
financed under the project (para. 2.06) and would participate in installing
the equipment, commissioning the workshops and preparing instructional
materials. Teacher training would be provided by the institute for instructor
training. Additional instructional staff would be recruited and trained as
the polytechnic institutes expand and reach full enrollment.



- 14 -
2.14      The institute for instructor training and the two polytechnic
institutes to be established under the project would be administered by
MDEC in accordance with operational directives issued by the National
Commission of the IPS.  Technical committees composed of technicians from the
Ministry of Education and the user ministries would establish program content;
pedagogical control would be exercised by 1iDEC's Department of Technical
Education. Liaison with technical ministries would be maintained through
existing arrangements under which these ministries are required to assign
technical staff to teaching duties (para. 1.18), set up practical attachments
for students under training, organize student placement after training, and
arrange for retraining and upgrading of employed workers.
Staff Housing
2.15      There is an extreme shortage of housing in the Conakry area, and the
credit would therefore finance the construction of 15 staff houses to accommo-
date both Guinean and expatriate instructional staff for the project institu-
tions. These houses would be constructed in accordance with accepted Govern-
ment housing standards, and would be built on a suitable site adjacent to the
institute for instructor training (para. 4.06). The 15 staff houses would
accommodate approximately one-third of the total teaching and professional
staff for the three institutions. The remainder of the staff would seek
private accommodations in the Conakry area. The Government has agreed to
provide two staff houses for the counterpart project director and the counter-
part assistant project director, both financed by the credit, who would
arrive early in the project cycle, approximately two years before the 15 staff
houses are expected to be completed.  The Government's ability to provide
these houses was confirmed during negotiations and an appropriate allowance to
rehabilitate or otherwise prepare existing accommodation has been included in
the credit.
Educational Planning
2.16      In view of the changing structure of the education system, a strong
educational planning capacity is a crucial element in the long-range develop-
ment of education and training. To strengthen the planning office of the
MDEC, the credit would finance an educational planner for two years to assist
in setting up adequate educational statistics, analyze manpower data on a
national scale, define training requirements in the agricultural and industrial
sectors, and advise on the establishment or expansion of technical and agricul-
tural training institutes. The credit would also finance three man-years of
consultant services to assist the Goverument in preparing projects in agricul-
tural and/or technical training suitable for external financing. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that the qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment of technical assistance
personnel financed under the project are to be acceptable to IDA. The credit
would also finance equipment, furniture and a vehicle for the educational
planning office.
2.17      Four man-years of fellowships would be provided to train two Guinean
educators in educational planning and statistics. During negotiations, assur-
ances were given by the Government that the fellowships will be awarded to
suitably qualified persons for training programs which will be prepared and
submitted to IDA approval by June 30, 1980, and that the fellowship holders
will serve at least three years in the positions for which they were trained.



- 15 -
III.  COST OF THE PROJECT AND FINANCING PLAN
Cost of the Project
3.01       The cost of the project 1/ is estimated at US$8.9 million,
with a foreign exchange component of US$8.0 million. The breakdown of costs
by project item is summarized below.
% of
Base
Project Item               Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local   Total  Cost
(Syli million)               (US$ million)
Institute for Instructor
Training                  54         4        58        2.7      0.2      2.9    41
Secondary Polytechnic
Institute (Teacher
Training Annex)            18         4        22        0.9      0.2      1.1    16
Secondary Polytechnic
Institute (Public
Works)                     22         4        26        1.1      0.2      1.3    19
Staff housing                14         4        18        0.7      0.2      0.9    12
Educational planning          8         -         8        0.4        -      0.4      6
Project management            8         -         8        0.4        -      0.4      6
Base cost:                  124        16       140        6.2      0.8      7.0   100
Physical contingencies         8        -          8       0.4        -      0.4      6
Expected price increases   28           2        30        1.4      0.1      1.5    21
Total contingencies          36          2       38        1.8      0.1      1.9    27
Total Project Cost
(including contin-
gencies)                 160        18       178        8.0      0.9      8.9
1/   Taxes are not included in the project cost calculations because  the
Government provides tax exemptions for development projects included
in the Economic and Social Development Plan.



- 16 -
3.02      Estimated project costs by category of expenditure are shown below.
% of
Base
Category of Expenditure  Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local   Total  Cost
(Syli million)               (US$ million)
Construction:
Academic facilities        26         8       34        1.3      0.4      1.7    24
Staff housing               8        4        12        0.4      0.2     0.6      9
Site development            8        4        12        0.4      0.2     0.6      9
Professional fees           4         -        4        0.2       -       0.2     3
Subtotal             46        16        62        2.3     0.8      3.1    45
Furniture:                    6         -         6       0.3       -       0.3     4
Equipment:                   22         -        22       1.1       -       1.1    16
Subtotal             28         -        28        1.4      -       1.4    20
Technical Assistance:
Instructional staff        32        -        32        1.6       -       1.6    23
Educational planning        6         -        6        0.3       -       0.3     4
Project management          6         -        6        0.3       -       0.3     4
Fellowships                   6         -        6        0.3       -       0.3     4
Subtotal            50        _         50        2.5      -       2.5    35
Base Cost:                  124        16      140        6.2      0.8      7.0   100
Contingencies:
Physical                    8         -        8        0.4       -       0.4     6
Price escalation           28         2       30        1.4      0.1      1.5    21
Subtotal            36         2        38        1.8     0.1      1.9    27
Total Project Cost          160        18      178        8.0      0.9      8.9
3.03      The cost estimates for civil works are based on sketch drawings
that were available at appraisal and on unit costs derived from construction
contracts awarded in Guinea during 1977. The estimated average cost of
construction for all educational facilities financed under the project is
US$280 per square meter, which compares favorably with prevailing construction
costs for similar buildings in other West African countries such as Senegal
and Ivory Coast. The estimated capital cost of US$5,850 per student place,
which includes th2 cost of construction, furniture and equipment, and the
unit area of li m per student are comparable with those for similar technical
institutions in the West African region. The cost of technical assistance,
based on recent recruitment experiences of international and bilateral orga-
nizations, is estimated at US$60,000 per man-year. This is considered adequate
since staff housing provided by the Government is part of the compensation
package (para. 2.15).



- 17 -
3.04      The project costs include contingency allowances for unforeseen
physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated base costs for civil works,
furniture and equipment. The overall allowance for price escalation is about
21% of base cost plus physical contingencies. This is calculated on the basis
of expected annual price increases over the project implementation period of
8% for civil works, 7.5% for furniture and equipment, 8% for technical assist-
ance, and 6% for fellowships (Annex 1.10).
3.05       The estimated foreign exchange component of US$8.0 million repre-
sents about 90% of the total project cost of US$8.9 million net of taxes,
and was calculated on the basis of 73% for civil works and 100% for furni-
ture, equipment, professional fees, technical assistance and fellowships.
Local currency expenditure amounts to US$0.9 million, or about 10% of total
project costs.
Financing Plan
3.06       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would finance the foreign
exchange costs, equivalent to 90% of the net-of-tax project costs. The Govern-
ment would finance the remaining US$0.9 million. The distribution of Government
and IDA financing by category of expenditure would be as follows:
Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure
(US$ million)
Government                   IDA              Total
Category                 Amount        Percent    Amount          Percent   Amount
Civil works                0.8            27         2.1             73         2.9
Furniture and equipment   -                -         1.4           100          1.4
Technical assistance        -              -         2.2           100          2.2
Fellowships                 -              -         0.3           100          0.3
Refunding of PPF 1/         -              -         0.2           100          0.2
Base Cost                  0.8            il         6.2            89          7.0
Physical contingencies    -                -         0.4           100          0.4
Price escalation           0.1             7         1.4            93          1.5
Total contingencies        0.1             5         1.8            95          1.9
Total Project Costs        0.9            10         8.0            90          8.9
1/   Equals total cost of professional fees.



- 18 -
Project Recurrent Costs
3.07      When the project-assisted institutions become fully operational in
1982, the recurrent expenditures falling within the Ministry of Education's
budget would increase by about US$390,000 (in constant 1978 prices). About
two-thirds of this increase, or US$260,000, would be for staff salaries and
related benefits and one-third, or US$130,000, for other operating costs such
as training materials and supplies. The budgetary increase would represent
about 0.5% of the Ministry's budget in that year, assuming the growth of
recurrent education expenditure is held at 9% p.a. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the Government that it will make adequate
budgetary provision for the operation and maintenance of all project-assisted
institutions, including the allocation of foreign exchange to purchase im-
ported materials and supplies, and that this provision will be reviewed with
IDA not later than December 31, 1979, approximately one year prior to the
opening of the institutions.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Execution of the Project
4.01      Detailed educational specifications and architectural sketch designs
for the project institutions were prepared prior to project appraisal and were
financed by an advance of US$70,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF). To accelerate project implementation and allow procurement and con-
struction to start soon after credit effectiveness, IDA has approved an
additional PPF advance of US$150,000 to finance the preparation of detailed
architectural drawings and bidding documents. The architectural consultants
used for the first phase of project preparation were retained for this
follow-up phase and were assisted by Guinean staff from the Ministries of
Education and Public Works. During negotiations, the bidding documents and
tendering procedures for civil works were reviewed and approved. Arrange-
ments were also made for the preparation of bidding documents for furniture
and equipment.
4.02      The project would be implemented over the five-year period 1978-82.
Construction of school buildings and installation of equipment would be
completed by September 1980. The first output of technical instructors would
be produced by 1981 and the first groups of skilled workers would emerge from
the polytechnic institutes in 1982.  The entire project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982, with a closing date of June 30, 1983, to allow
for all accounts to be closed.
Project Unit
4.03      A project unit responsible for the implementation and administration
of the project has been established within MDEC. A full-time Guinean project
director has been appointed and is responsible to the Minister of Education



- 19 -
tor overall project execution and for liaison with IDA. The Guinean director
of school construction has been appointed assistant project director, with
responsibility for construction supervision and equipment procurement. As the
proposed project would be the first to be implemented by the Ministry of
Education, the credit would help to establish the project unit by financing
five man-years of technical assistance (para. 4.04), office equipment, furni-
ture, and four vehicles for project administration and site supervision.
The Government has already allocated suitable office space for the project
unit. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that
the following additional experienced and competent personnel will be provided
to staff the project unit: (i) an administrative officer, (ii) two accountants,
and (iii) two secretaries.
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
4.04      To assist in setting up the project unit, establishing its operating
procedures and organizing adequate construction supervision, the project would
finance three technical assistance posts: (a) a counterpart to the project
director for three years to help establish administrative and financial
procedures; (b) a counterpart to the assistant project director for two years
to help set up procurement procedures and site supervision; and (c) an equip-
ment consultant for three months to help prepare equipment specifications and
bidding documents. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of technical assistance personnel financed under the project are to
be acceptable to IDA.
4.05      To improve the Ministry of Education's capacity for managing and
executing education projects, six man-years of fellowships and study tours
would be provided for a project manager, a procurement officer, and an archi-
tect specializing in school construction. During negotiations, assurances
were given by the Government that the fellowships will be awarded to suitably
qualified persons for training programs which will be prepared and submitted
to IDA for approval by June 30, 1980, and that the fellowship holders will be
required to serve at least three years in the positions for which they were
trained.
Site Selection
4.06      The Government has allocated a suitable 7-hectare building site
located along the Conakry-Kindia highway, in a developing industrial area about
20 km from Conakry. The three institutes would be constructed on adjacent
parcels of this site to form an integrated campus. Staff housing (para. 2.15)
would be located on a small site adjacent to the institutes and bordering a
proposed residential area. Topographic and preliminary geological site sur-
veys have been conducted, with the information made available to the consult-
ing architects (para. 4.01). During negotiations, assurances were given by
the Government that an access road from the Conakry-Kindia highway to the
site for the institutes will be built not later than December 31, 1978, when
construction of the institutes is scheduled to commence.



- 20 -
Procurement
4.07      Civil works valued at US$3.1 million and furniture, equipment and
vehicles valued at US$1.4 million would be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Procurement
of educational equipment, consumable materials and other supplies would be
handled by the national import-export agency (IMPORTEX) responsible for all
Governnment procurement. Materials, equipment and vehicles that cannot
be grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 each, or are not suitable for
international competitive bidding, would be procured under local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or through negotiated purchase on the
basis of price quotations from at least three reliable suppliers or manufac-
turers. The aggregate value of such items is estimated not to exceed US$0.2
million.
Disbursements
4.08      The funds from the credit account would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for civil works and professional
fees - US$2.6 million;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for furniture, equipment and
vehicles - US$1.6 million; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and
fellowships - US$2.8 million.
US$1.0 million of the proposed credit would be unallocated. The allocation
for civil works and professional fees includes US$220,000 to refund the PPF
advance (para. 4.01). All disbursements would be fully documented. The
estimated schedules of implementation and disbursements are given in Annexes
1.11 and 1.13.
Revolving Fund
4.09      A revolving fund of US$50,000 in foreign exchange, financed by the
credit, would be established with the Central Bank in Conakry and would be
used to purchase small items such as office equipment and supplies and spare
parts for vehicles.  IDA would replenish the account upon receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should any dis-
bursements be made from the revolving fund that are not acceptable to IDA, the
Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the corresponding
amount. In addition to the foreign exchange fund, the Government would
establish a revolving account in local currency, equivalent to the amount of
US$250,000, to finance the local cost component of the civil works contracts
and the operating expenses of the project unit. This fund would be replenished
quarterly from the Government budget in accordance with a timetable and a
replenishment schedule agreed during negotiations. As a condition of credit
effectiveness, the Government would be required to deposit the equivalent of
US$250,000 in local currency in the revolving account established with the
National Credit Bank in Conakry.



- 21 -
Accounts and Audits
4.10      The project unit would set up an accounting system, in accordance
with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expenditures. All
accounts would be subject to regular Government auditing procedures. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the accounts and the audit
report will be submitted to IDA not later than three months following the
close of each fiscal year.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The following benefits are expected to result from the project:
(a) creation of a supply of technical instructors for the secondary poly-
technic institutes (para. 2.03); (b) improvement in the quality and relevance
of technical training programs for the secondary polytechnic institutes (para.
2.06); (c) an increase in the supply of skilled workers for the industrial
and public works sectors (para. 2.07); and (d) establishment of a capacity for
project planning and implementation within the Ministry of Education (para.
4.05).
5.02      As this would be the first project financed by IDA in the education
sector, its scope and content have been made simple and project designs have
been taken to an advanced stage prior to Board presentation to minimize the
risk of implementation delays. Government officials have participated fully
and effectively in project preparation; hence with this experience we do not
expect any major delays. Minor holdups may arise because of some cumbersome
administrative procedures.
5.03      There is a risk that the project institutions may not be operated
efficiently because of difficulties in recruiting well-trained instructors
and also because the project institutions will require significant allocations
of foreign exchange to purchase operating supplies and maintain the workshop
equipment. These potential problems have been taken into account by the
technical assistance and fellowships to be funded by the credit, and by an
assurance obtained from the Government during negotiations that it will review
budgetary foreign exchange allocations for the project institutions with IDA
prior to the scheduled opening of the institutions (para. 3.07).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Governnent that:
(a)  an evaluation of the technical teacher training programs
at the institute for instructor training will be financed
and carried out by MDEC not later than June 30, 1983, and
the results forwarded to IDA (para. 2.06);



- 22 -
(b) an evaluation of the modular training programs for skilled
workers at the polytechnic institutes will be financed and
carried out by MDEC not later than June 30, 1983 (para. 2.10);
(c) ten fellowship candidates, suitably qualified to become
teacher trainers for the instructor training institute,
will be recruited not later than June 30, 1979,and will be
required, after training, to serve at least three years in
the positions for which they were trained (para. 2.12);
(d) adequate budgetary provision will be made for the operation
and maintenance of all project-assisted institutions,
including the allocation of foreign exchange to purchase
imported materials and supplies, and the budgetary provision
will be reviewed with IDA not later than December 31, 1979,
approximately one year prior to the opening of the institu-
tions (para. 3.07);
(e) the following experienced and competent personnel will be
provided to staff the project unit: (i) a project director,
(ii) an assistant project director - construction supervisor,
(iii) two accountants, (iv) an administrative officer, and
(v) two secretaries (para. 4.03);
(f) the qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of
employment of technical assistance personnel financed under
the project are to be acceptable to IDA (paras. 2.06, 2.16
and 4.04);
(g) the fellowships for the educational planning office and for
the project unit will be awarded to suitably qualified persons
for training programs that will be prepared and submitted to IDA
for approval by June 30, 1980, and the fellowship holders will
be required to serve at least three years in the positions for
which they were trained (paras. 2.17 and 4.05);
(h)  an access road will be constructed from the Conakry-Kindia
highway to the construction site for the three institutes
not later than December 31, 1978 (para. 4.06);
(i) the project accounts and the audit report will be submitted
to IDA not later than three months following the close of
each fiscal year (para. 4.10).
6.02      As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government should
submit evidence that a revolving account in local currency equivalent to
US$250,000 has been established with the National Credit Bank in Conakry
(para. 4.09).
6.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$8.0 million to the
Republic of Guinea.



ANNBX   X I
C) 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
" :                                G~Q    
LoI                                                                                                .         .    .       
15   Î ~      
g        is a, 
.  .             ,
2:a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
Qi G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-C                                                          C~~~~~---------  -------



GUINEA-FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM-1976
PRE-UNIVERSITY EDUCATION               --               ,4UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
7      8      9      10      11      12     13      14     15      16      17     18         19      20         21      22     23      24
Age         |       i      |       i           
-4------------- 1st cycle                    .-2nd   cycle----    4-3rd  cycle             ----              ----
ENI   Primary Teachers                                 TEACHER TRAINING:
1      2
IFI
Instructors iPS
. IP~~GAN/IJ
r    IPGAN/IPJN             Secondary Teachers
GENERAL EDUCATION              INSTITUTES        POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES                        UNIVERSITY :
Sciencesand Technology      IPGAN - Conakry
Doctorate in Medicine
Administrative sciences   IPJN - Kankan                                                                         f0
3 w   .  {3 4        Masters n Sciences, Law, Humanities"
Engineering
T-- ---E .CHNICAL EDUCATION -     Medicine--pharmacy  Geology-mining-Boké
Examinations                                                                                       1       2                 > 4     5TMasters in mining-geology
BAC - Baccalauréat                                                               IPS--GC          Agriculture        aÏ urit ouIayah
BP - Technical certificate                                                      i      1           1       2                                Masters in Agriculture
Sch ooks
ENI -Primary Teacher Training Schools                                             IPS-A             Veterinary
IFI - Training Institute for IPS Instructors                                    il    12              1    2       University diploma
IPGAN - Polytechnic Institute Gamal Abdel Nasser                             x       I             o
IPJN -Polvtechnic Institute Jsjlius Nyerere                                 Ex siln IPS            Zootechnic
IPS -A Secondary Polytechnic Institute
(Teacher Traiieing Annex)                                                                 PTT
IPS-GC - Secondary Polytechnic Institute                                                B          1       2
PTT - Post and Telecommunications
Note: O examination                                            --__-____-_----_-_-_-__- _____-                              __-_-_-     __-_- __- __-_-____-_ -_-_--
O entrance examination
* baccalauréat                                                                                                                                                                                             X
Source: Mission, October 1977
World Bank - 18761



Cd
msH
*0                          I                                         4-    >                        >   t-     b-   b-        b-         b--    b-                    O
rH             *   0.>  -    t    > 04-00  b-t> O      b-  b-    b-  1400  0 b- b- b-                 4 t>       b-t>b-C  b-   0b-0      b- 0b-  tht          Cb-b-   b- t>
*   1400      I    OoaOoo-.ooo         01-000     b-b-O  0.000  O .004               0004 - OOCOOti000b-04040            00t591-00r-0 *       001- 00.
Z0.0.. >- I    C .0* .0000 -    00404        01-0090>04 - .0 *0040               o>00 - .00b-000.-. .0004>..90       .-.000 .0490 -    .004 .000  4
*   000-054  b-I     4      .   b-                                                                            .
415.   S    400.00. O    09,-or--    40O..00OI0.  0 0b--.                     000   0b-00>V0b-  ..O00000         *4-l-b-b- 44Cr-     .444  :00 .0
-s---.
cO         O       OCNO>-b-b-0b-0    r-t SOC     000b-01-0C4:04401-                 4404000000040000000                .04:0 .r-0000       :0.000000 -
t>  a. B                                        b-b-        b-                           b-                          b-               b-       k-
tC   tip     C tata   t>                     O   t>O      t> ta t>                    b-  t> C          Ct>       -0 ta  - OC         Ct> .40   C
* ttCCt I-b-   I    :00 0.:-.o.-.    »j-.-.00   :000nini00000b->oOOni               niOOOOOtO ÀJ0C 0-0fli.0> niOntO    .0 000.oontoo
*   ..Jo
*   t> 0C1---.>-I
*   .soer-hhl* Ol
I   *Z42-'  -.    .-.Cb-tNOi--c000     00990      4-.niOOOo-.0Lfltir-                 0b-4001-000044444004               b-00004.b-tO1-b-    b-40400r-O .0
I    b-t    cI      0909C40040         04nib-r-    0-.-      0*         ..            :        4->oo:.*>0--             CO..o:00.-. b-       0b-004--4 .0
'-s
S   CI-K *    B
*   blOOt>    B
I   KO  b>-' 0'    O  b-t>   t>.       bib-   .     C    .       b- O  -                -  b- .0               Ct>       .0
*   O  0*54  .O     9909,-9900         0000.    0000.000000044-0                      o.OOC.00...b-0 0:4-.400--.    .0004-b-to  000
*   040  -  - B    00000000 -0    r-Or-O          0b-4   0 41-4-.O--C .0              C .0r->> - O - - .4400  000b-0     .040444 *40 b-       . - 0 .'4r-C
*   toto    - I
*   00k-t-    B
*   C 054    i    C   C                             O                                 4               b-       ta         OC           C
* 11kIb-04I-  >b- i    Ca -00.0  0               0000   Oc *0    b- C                000b-b- .0     .000040 *O00    000 .000 >000             *0 .000 *b-
I 01-0100 CI.O *0 - .
* 0.44  t. -,    00.00.0.0 -                      b-b-tic.4                          r-ooo-.b- -...400044.04r-           000 .000.000        0b- .4-.0 .0
*  .ZJ..JOC  -.                        0.0..        O    - .0      -.  .                 - O           -,
*    41  C    i       b-                                b-  b-                                   b-  b-       b-  b-         b-               b-       k-
*  *b- t>  >45    C  -       t>            4       b-  000    t> b- b-                    k-b-  C  ta        b-b-ta      O ta 4 b-            0000   O
* .14400   4-I    490t5940r-40         o0:-O      00009000040000b-                   00000040b-:400000.-440             09400400 41-b-    or-000000 b-O
* t1-hJW>.jt   1    0-.fltIgfti0IbI000    000ni0  0000044400400440                  0040400b-00400 00440444            NO O00ttOOb-O O    0000000000
* t-Ct,    B
*I
*      t.    B
i   - k-t>    I
C.       i   -J  Ch> -'t    O   t>    0.        04           O 1-'.      t> C 40                                        *         O  -    .          0*  .    --
Ct       B  tXb>.J  CI    01-99t>OCO.0          0>00..    0000 .0000 .00001-c                  0.01- ..0C..0 4b-.-:  ..CC        001- .400 .>0      0 -.0.040..
OU       I   SO>-i1t>  - I    90000900 .0    000 - -    41-00 .0040 -004404                    O .0: - .0»> . . .401-1-00 --00    04- .0:0 .000       0.-ni .OniO -
1-t      I  O.>Otb-   I
b- *     B  01-0 tt>    I
t>. i
Ct       S   ..JO      I              b-         b- CO       b-   b-O       b- b-                  Cb-b-   b-b-        k-b-        b-       b-b-         b-b-b-  k-
4-O   t  i   -bO.-.1---.oS       C   Ota         0 -0      b-00000000001-                         0k-tOC  40  000   o0             00k-cc>-           00040000
-.5 '-s  t   04-1-bilI 1-t    C0oo00t00       90000       040040004-.Cr-0040                 0004b-1-40000444000040>-    4000b-000000                1-40000000
jf\        t   t  I   t 2040.t        9000990009         9090-    1-4r-Ot-r-00r- 000400C                004000044000001-1-1-0040           0004401-0:4         :C-.OcOt.-.00
ru  -t  s    s.        I              -          -   -                -   -
0* r-t II
-.5  OS  i             i
b-t   S  i   O 1-51-   i                  b-    0    b-      0       r-       *0                    k-b-O  . 01-1-    b-t>        0 O 0        0      b-    C    0
tat  -t  I   - 40.0  :1      OeOwOOOooO         40004      0-aOc . *OCb-r- .0 . .00            00000000 .00000004440»             00.-.a1-0044>-0    b-O .00 0-lob-r-
ot  -u  î   t-oc  c 41        OtOoeOoooc>       001-00     0:0..:04   0 . . 4                 41-400:00 .0:0000000  :0           00044004r-00        OC *1-400r-O1-
Ct t I OU 140 -l
j * *i b-k-
b-t Ot  I       O  -   t    b- blD  b-b-         b-  k-      O 00        C b- b-                   b- b-b-. 0        b- 0        0      0k-k- b-J   .1-b-b-.  k- O
b- t OU  i t>  b- O   i    044.->000000         :4000      :0401- - .:tflO.-.4040              00000 .400   .0040000000           40004000000         .000 .40000
-I5  2>0  I    t- I   I    :Ofl>0000:rgO       0::::       ni:o.-.0 . .00::  00:-             0000- - :4 . .0:::::0   nia    o:»>
t 45  I 471-C         I
b-t      I COOt>  -   I         40        O                                                                  b-        b-
Ou  o   I 2>>-.t.J0t> '-'I   b- 02>  b-k- t      b-  b-   -0  0b-0        0 b- b-                   k- b-k- .0  O     o ta        O      0k-k- W      400.   b- 0
b-I      i t1-0.JOw  n       :1-01-940000       4:1-90      .Oa.-l09000000001-0               40441- .444 .0444:00001-0          :0400:00400          .000.00040
0.t      I   00.41-O    I    004000000»-        04000       .0040:0000  00000                  ::000.04-0.40000044000            000  00:00:0         .C.-.ni.0:00 O
OS       i b-t>54      I
OU       I 04t>    -   I        b-b-
ot       I   0*20    r>  I   0-  tt2>  k-b-      k-   b-     1-   0k-t    b-  b-  b-                k-   b-k-  .0    O  b-   O     C      0k-b-   b-  .ttJb-0  .  b-   O
*   blOC  t   I    40:0:0044 .    1-0040          01-01-044000040001-                b->-.:00 .000.0:00401-4044         01-0:400::0          .004 .1-0040
* 0   b> t   t    000b-00400         04004       b-b-04001-400044004                40044.000.00440400000              40440440040           404 .40440
IS                                                                                                                                 o          k-b- k-
I  b-t>   -tt>  -  I  O                                                                          k-    O      b-
I    tb  4 0>       4   b-O  k-         O   2>   k-k- >3 O       O b-                      b-b-   000  O      O 0         O      0)0  O    b- 0000  O
I 040000  b-I    01-01-4  t01-4       40040      00000000  4401- 1-0                00000000000400I440000              :1-040000000        04001-1-01-00
I 1-050>->.> - B
*   O  t      I    04Co0 .b-r>00       0Cr- 44    440001-00 .00:0  4 o               0000000040000011-040:0             00004000040         1-00:1-40:40
i 40  O       I      0:00.::::        :::  o    :0::ni::::0::.OaO                    0:0:0 0o:00000o0:000               nini :ni::0:.-.:    :::00::0::
I   0t>       B                                                      O                           b- 0         k- 4                  O          b-k-   b-
I   b-DO      I    b-  k-   b-              0       Z    b-  O O   Z                 b-   Lb-   004  O        O 0         O      (b-b-O 4      toco  O
I 01--O.>     I    00004»j0004        4:404       400000000000.000                   04040:1-0:0041-00404004            :004000-004         00001-00004
-l 40b-C b- rI
* 0b- Db-...> Ol    01-04001-1-4)>    00440       1-1-4000040000 *440                000044404040040440404              0000:041-000        400000:404
I   t> 0004    I
I 001-000    I                                                                                                       b-I
k-                                                                                               b-I
O IC>-                b-b-b-k-      k-k-      4k- k-b-k-b-   a  k-b-k-              b-b-b-b-b-k-b-      b- b-b-  41   k-k-t)k-b-L.J     k-b-k-b-k-
* -'1- tItIS *-i    0000000000       00000       0000000000000000                   000000000000000000000  0>00000000000                   0000000000
* t01-tt>>0 i    1-01-0004000        001-40      000:00 0::041- 0044                400400044040001-000:440 i04041-00001-                  :0040:4404
* 204000  Ol    044401-:1- 0    00001-    0:4000:00:0:0:00                           :40: O 400..000040»-0004  01401-4000  0k-4             00000001-00
* 00401-   I                                                                                                         b-I.          - - -
I   t> Ct     I    41-44044401-       OOo:0                      O                                                   taI:           o o       o         :0
B            -l    k-      k-k-b-k-     b-k-k-k-k-b-b-b-b-b-                            b- k-b-J k-b-k-k-   k-k-b-b-lb-k-k-b-O                   k- b-k-  k-
I        -C    I    04041-00004        :0400      0:1-1-4400000001-1-0               00001-0000:0a004:4401-0  I 1001-cO1-00000              4004:04440
* k-i ol.1-.
ni :1      1-00:004444        0000        40001-:>: 44000440                 :0004:04040000000:440    I 00444400000                 01-001-00000
I       b-O  cI      04:0      0"          OC     o           00        :                      :1-      o o c O   CI                0         0:0     :
I         0   I         o       O                                                                                    b-i
II                                                                                                                 CI
C   I    4040004404          44004      1-444044444444444                  40440:44404004-4404404    I 40000004044
*        k-   I    1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-)-    1-1-1-1-1-    1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-  1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-r-1-1-r-1-1-1-1-1-1-r-1-1-4I1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-    1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-r-
I             i        .                                                                                             ta.
I       b-                                                                                             ci   k-             b-i
I             I       4                                                                              41              b-I   b-         O    (il
I       4 >00                                                                          r         O    -i   lb-             --I
I - O b- b- O 1- Il b- O .4 b-i
*             I       b- 20                                                             b-  00       41  O      i    b-I 0404        b-  ail             4
I o 4-> -1 4 Z 0 O 0 40 t 44 0 I 0Ob-b-J04 O b-I b-
o             I 4>0  b- 40              000      lb- 4:0    4 O       t>             ooO   4000444.-,0  b-    4104044  444441b-.0   0k-w
I 0>007 041k-Z - k- >4440 410 400. c b- 4 tO00>-00040CU4:44b-l0O>k- 00040 i.-.> 404002>
*             I 410 Cb-4b-00b-4k-100.42  0144>44 O 01-0400000                       rb-04000000044040 COco  tI 4b-4b-b->->i0000  b-140b-0040  40
I             I 411-404000  01441-b-O  O 141002>4 .00k-O0OZ400                      0.>ob-OOO 041441044>-t>->0741 O 4>-l41-OC>-1-O404ZOio1-4044400k-
I             I 0>040 b-k-b-b-b-b-O  41410004  b-I 041-474440 =004004                0004440004040044004-or  410 CX  b-C400004I440 40k-440b-
I             I 0I2>b-0441t>0C - - 2>10400k- b- >41>02>4 .400>-b- 40Db-b-            b-040440000W.00404D 4 4-44  b-lb- 00444044100  0i0440044440
41404044002>2> b- 140k-OC 2>1040000(1044000000 44000104 00000 01-1-2>2>7-JO taBOtaO401-)0zI-- O l0400tt1t3k-b-2>4
I        q                                                                                           t



- 26 -
ANNTEX 1. 3
Page 2 of 2
t       t GNP/ t X ~GNP   IX T0TALIX  OF PUBLIC t                 t        a          iPRI.  IAY.PIRI.   t             t        tSEC   i 
t    CAP0TAt  OEVOTEDOaUBL.IC  1 EDUCATION    ILITER.  t PRO. ICOMPLE.  ISTU.  iSCU.7EACHiPROGRE3S.t  SEC, uSIL.  IHIGUERI
t       AT   t TO EOU.1  EXP. i RECURRENT    IACO             IENROLLITION        IDENTBISALARY INIION RATE SENROLLIDENTSIENROLLi
t       aMARK7TS (PUBLICIDEVOTEDIEXO  ALLOCATEOI   RATE IRATIO IRATE FORIPER   IRELATIOiN IFROM PRO.tRATIO SPER   $RATIO I
t POP. tPR0CESI EXP.    i  T0    t            Tot       .10 0F   1 NE!   IPRI.SCH,sTEACUi TO GNP/ 170 SEC.   I NET   tTEACH. GROSSI
YRtMIL.LS.1 (LSS)t ONLY)           IEDU. IPRI. SEC. U0.IADLLTS)I  (00   ICYCLEOItER    I cmî;ITA   t  CX)                 t (0)   RER    t  M         )
t       t        t          I         t                 I         t        I          I       t           I            I        I       t  
a  01) it  <2) t  (3)    t  (4)   t           (5)       I (à)    t (7)   I  (8)    a (9) I  010)    t (11)             1(12)   iiii) 1(1.ô)
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
~~: ANO OCEANIA
-SHANISTAN    74  13.7F    150F                            39P  23P   16P    10         260       24        41        5.0         78         50      21       1.80
AEU  73  78,6F        90F      1.2    20.2      440   22v   210    230       560       . ..      Mao       ...         ...       2300    28
NACT4I'.AN) 73   16.OF    430F         3.2    1440      28.  41    22       82       98C       94        40       14.0         84        61C      26     ai,OOC
-DlA75 608.1                140       2,640  *.298                                  6500       *..       43A       *..     *.           2900    2040    2.34EV
F~~N314      74 là132,0 1 F 22        3.9F   1 1.0 F    e)9    a     1 0    60ce    79X       4 3        30        2. 00      sa        190      1 4      2.0 0
7 3   3 3'.4F 0,660ô0    3, 3    1 2,6    SOS  la88   128    5 0       7 7       704        32        5.08       B0A       24       32       4,32CF
75   11.1   1,250        6,7C   16.30 ..          ....         abc     930       *...      22         *.         *,        3500    abc       8.470
D           7 3    2.7F    445F      7 .0     8. 8     52    1 5    2 1    59       RIX       76        38        5.0        54         500     22       4 .0 0
-A75   35 3           sbo       2.9    16*0R    65    il       a     420    1040        98        si         3.5        77        550      38       7.8S
iFU         72    3,2F 1,070F        3*5    18.C       39    go    10      48       86        65        14        2.0        63         ?6u     25      23.00
0314Â        7 6   1 2.6    860       &, 7    26 .0     4 2    3 4    1 5   601     95        9 3        32        3, 7       7 8       48a      28e      3.0 0
7 6   12.6F    1 10ôF    1. 1    1 0,.0   29    2 0    4 1     1 9     59        28         3 1      2. 3        60        14 l     2 4      0 ,8
7 2    0.80  2.,30 ô     1.7N    3. 8     96           *       20      240       99         33       7,.0        . ..      0.40      9       ..
A ~    7 5  649. 2       16 0      1. 6    164. 2    45    25    18a     2 1      47X       50        54        2 .0       .         170      1 8      6,00
N,0G.     75    2.8      a70       5.6    I0.1      38    16    24       32      57?       73P        31      11.0         g0        12X?    24        0.901
IPP!NFS    7 9  4 2.2F    3800       2. S     4té,4   73    15    1 2     87      1043        .        34       1-5. 0       . ..      460      . ..    21 .0 0
004OE       7 4    2.3F 2,450F       2.7 y     4.2 Y    390   39y   17Y    75A    10Q00       72A       31F y     ..         994        440F    24       7,680
-~~IA      75    7.i4    720        3,6    6,9        39    25    26      53      89         70        35        2.0        92        45       21      12.00
4 .NC       7 3  401.40F   35oP      4.ONF 20,7F    65.   9    18    82             870       931       32        3. 0 U     911       210      24       2 0 0
EY          73  40.2F    400F        5.6CY 20.bCY    .          .      . ..         850       ...       340       ..          *..      240      2700    5,830
73    5,4F    200F       0.5     4 .0     a15#   210   23P    10       150       18        36        5 .0        75         20      19       8.050F
P,0. R.   7b     0.7   280ô      6 .6     . ..     57    28      a     il       890       48        30        5 .0        94        210x    16        1.0 0
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUNTRIESI
'404R OF COUjrTRIESI                    82      79       77    72    73      76      84         59        84          56       6.3       83       80        74
0.5-    3.8    0 25. (5-   (2.    (3-        (14-      (13-.      19-       ( 1.9-    (7-         .4.    (9- .1
1 2. 0    33,00    9b I7) 41)         4  8)    13300    99         64        25.00       99)       80   )  39 )    23,.0)
-ARTILESIUPPER  t                      5.0    21.2      54    32    22       73      94         76        46          7        83        36       25       7,0
mEDIANI                    3.4    06. ,3    i45    2 3    18à    50       78        55        36          4        à63        1 7     23       2. 3
LOAER t                    3. 0    12,.4    38    18a    1 2    20       5 3       30        32           3        4 3        9       20        . 9
D=MJ.St,..  T~ATUM LNJA44ILARLÉ               A.1970 OR REFORE              MUCURRENT PRICFS                            SOURCES.
- '4AGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE R.0971                              N.GDP.......
?    UESTIONAOLE                    C30972                         P*INCLUDING FOREIGN 400                      COLUMNStI AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
ONCLUDES PA4T-.IXE STUDENTS D=1973                               Q.CEN7RAL GOV7. ONLY                                             OR IBRO MISSIONS
** COm6INED >ITH. P40A4Y             E%1974                        RUMINOSTRYO0F EDUCATION  (MOEI ONLY                     3 TO 14 IBRD MISSIONS
LJNOER REVIE.                      Fe 1975                       SUMOE AND 5747E GOOT,  ONLY                                      AND/OR UNESCO
0.1976                        T.EXCLUDING CENTRAL G047.                                        37ATISTICAL
UBPU8LIC IONLY                                                   YEARBOOK
V.!NCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
X*0NCLUDING OVERAGEO STUDENTS
YBUNE3Co SOURCES
-';A7ITvE EOUCATIOtN rnAA ARE U.SFFLL ON TUE EVALUATION 0F VARIQU3 EDUCATION SY3TEMO AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES 0F EDUCATIONAL
-OPMENT BETAEEN VA4I0uS rCOUNrPIES, UO.EVER,ON THE BASIS OF TUE PRESENT OATA,CROSS.NATIONAL COMPARISON. SHOULO BE APPR0ACHEo AITU
1-7CAUTIO'*  DATA PRF.ESENTF   74 THE 4B0V0  TABLE MAVE BEEN COLLECTEO LARGE.Y 8Y THE BANK MISSIONS FROU GAOVERNMENT SOURCESi  THE
INOE4 44F STAFF ESTIMATEl OR DATA FR076 UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE SEEN M4ADE TO STANOAROIZE DEFINITOONS AND WITHIN LIMITS, TO CHECK THE
~-,ACyO0F TUF DATA. NEVERTAELESS,SUJCH 0ATA ARE STILL ImPERFECi' IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE BANK I3 WORKING TO IMPROVE TULM
~G0ESSIVEFY ON TUE OCCA5j10N CF IT5 OPERA7T0nNAL nORK. IN THE USE 0F THESE 0ATA, THE FOLLUWING QUALIFICATIONS SUDULD BE BORNE ON
,1j~EDUCATITON" AS DEFyNET IN TUF TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATIOF AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMALr
(2)'PR0MARY FOUCATICN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT TH.E FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EOLCATION REFERS TC ALL EOUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL 4EGAROLESS 0F TYPE 0E,G. GENERAL, TECHNICA., AGRICULTURAL)y
(3)'LITERACY RATES'(CrL.N)] ARE DFTE'. USTAINFD FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES, IN MANYCOUJNTRIES TUEY ARE ONLO APPROXIMATIONS AND 17 OS
DO0I8TFL.L 7HA7 ANY UNIPORU4 MEFINITION 0F 'LITERATETM HAS BEEN FOLI.OWED CONSISTENTLOt
(4)"PLARLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION"<COLS.3,4 AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL 4ND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES OEVOTED TO EDUCAFION ÎIY
PUSLIC ANC OUASI-P8JLIC AGENCIES,
(5)"FNRCLLMENT RATIOS"(CT<LS 7, 12 AND 140 ROFER TO SCUOOL YEAR AN0 MEAN TUE PERCENTAGE 0F ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FUJLL.TIME
IN TUF APPROPRIATE SCHCOL, PJHLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL, TUEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN 0F ERROR IN TUE DENELOPONO
COUNTRIES CUING TO VARIATION O' THE ACCURACY OF BÂSIC DATA(IOE. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATIOIN 4ND ENROILLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQjENT..Y ARE RIGHER THON T~F NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY ON SCHOOL. OVERAGEO STUDENTS WUOSE INCLUS10N OS INDICÀTED 80
FDUTNOTES ALSO CAN lINFLATF T"E 447IC03.



GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PORJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID, 1976/77
Years of study
t i                                                                                    52  4
c   18                                                                               597   135
u   5 7 Post Secondary Upper Cycle                                                1439    178
17                                                                             18        7
1 16                                                                                968   117
BOYS                                                             GIRLS
1 5                                                                      4637 : É      X1243
Post Secondary Lower Cycle                                                 ..
1 14                                                                    6655 .1641
13 Nauoral Service                                                    5287             I 930
12                                                           (87) 2/ 5549               1657
j  Uppe SecondarY                        1639) 6064                                        1969 (90)
c   10                                                            (608) 6752                    2477 (85)
9D                                                              9740                           3766
8 3 Lcwer Seconrdary                                      13066                                     4664
 7                                                 1 6700                                             6056
6                                                  14494                                          6745
~~~~   5                             1~~~~~~~~~7639            .....7721
4 Prfimarv                27583 t-' *' "'«'' "'  '                 *7567                              8487
Prmary                                                  ....................
27583120
40296            "        .     '     ,     ' '         -       .3....                                           16037               26165
40,000             30,000            20.000             10,000               °                10,000            20,000             30.000             40,000
I                 I                  I                  I                  1                  I                 1                  I
l/ Natio,,al servece, eI,n,nated ni 1977/78
2î Fîrures In rsrackets ndîcate enroliment n vocational schools
World Bank - 18763



GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT/GUINEE - PREMIER PROJET EDUCATION
Enrollments and Teachers in the Education System, 1976-77/Effectifs et enseignants dans le système éducatif, 1976-77
7. Qualified    Student:Teacher  Age group           Enrollment as
Teachers/           ratio/       Population'/    % of age group/
Level/Niveau                                      Grades/   Age grouip/   Enrollments/  Teaching Staff/    70 enseignants    Taux élèves:  Population par   Effectifs en 7.
Classes       Age           Effectifs        Enseignants         qualifiés        enseignants       Groupe d'âge  du Groupe d'âge
Primary/Primaire                                   I - 6      7 - 12            225,727        5,026                   18.1            44.9             751,000            30.1
Secondary/Secondaire                               7 - 13   13 - 19              86,186        3,455                   37.0            24.9             693,000            12.4
General Secondary/Secondaire général               7 - 12   13 - 18               78,460        -                       -               - 
Industrial (IPS)/Industriel                       10 - 12   16 - 18                1,509        -                       _                               603,000            13.3
13th Year2/l13ème année                              13        19                 6,217         -                       -
Post-Secondary/Superieur
Lower University cycle/Facultés                   14 - 15   20 - 21               14,176         9435/                 n.a.            18.8-/           171,000             8.3
Agriculture, Veterinary, forestry/                                                6,880         -                                       -                 -                 -                   u
Agriculture, vétérinaire, foresterie                                                                                                                                                           o
Teacher training/Ecole normale                                                   3,042          -                       --                                - 
Health/Santé                                                                      1,315         -                       --                                -                 -
Administration /Gestion                                                           2,037         -                       -                                 -                  -
Industrial/Industrie                                                                902         -                       -                                --                 -
Higher university cycle/Instituts poly-           16 -18/19  22 -24/25            3,560         -                                       -               238,000              1.5
techniques
Training abroadt//Formation à l'étrangère                                        1.500
1/ Estimates bascd on the December 1972 population census/Estimations basées sur le
recensement de la population de décembre 1972.
2/ The 13th year, a national service year, was eliminated with the school year 1977-78/
La 13ème année, année de service national, a été abolie durant l'année scolaire 1977-78.
3/ Includes a PTT and a Police school/Ecole de Police et Ecole des P.T.T. incluses.
4/ Mission estimate/Estimation de la mission.
5/ Total post-secondary teaching staff/Total professeurs de l'enseignement supérieur.
6/ Total post-secondary ratio/Total taux élèves/enseignants niveau universitaire.
Source: Data provided by the MDEC/Données fournies par le MDEC



GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION FROJECT/GUINEE - PRgM4ER PROJET EDUCATION
Recurrent Budget for Education of Central Government/Budget de foncLionnement du Gouvernement central
Fiscal Years 1975-76 and 1977/Annees budgetaires 1975-76 et 19771/
(in million Sylis)/(en millions de Sylis)
1975-76                                         1977                                  1975-76 + 1977
Percentage Increase/
Augmentation pourcentage
iStaff/     Other/                           Staff/         itat Staff/                                    Other/
Personnel  Autres        Total       .         ersonnel  Autres       Total       71        Personnel    Antres   Total
Primary education/Enseignement primaire                   208.0      10.4        218.4       30
Secondary education/Enseignement secondaire               194.4      30.7        225. 1      31      I   501.2       24,7      525.9      55              24.6    -39.9        18.6
Post-secondary education/Enseignement supérieur    35.5              39.2         74.7       10
Lover oyele/Pacultîes
Teacher Training/Ecolc normale                       ( 8.4)    (20.0)       128.4)
Agricultural/Agriculture                             (13.4)    (17.0)        (30.4)
.   .                    ~~~~~~96.2  145.1   241.3       25            -40.7      16i. 8      11.2
Industrial/Tndustrie                                 ( 5.7)   < 0.9)        ( 6.6)                                                                                                            u
Health/Santé                                         ( 4.6)    I 0.9)        ( 5. 5)
Other tertiary/Secteur tertiaire                     ( 3.4)       o 0.4)     ( 3.8)
Higher cycle/Instituts polytechniques                   126.7      15.6        142.3       20
Non-formal education/Enseignement extra scolaire            6.2        1 9         8.1        1
Educational research/Rechercht  sur l'éducation             3.9        0.3          4.2       1
Administration/Gestion                                     37.o        5.7        49.7        6            90.1       91.5     181.6       20             82.4      548.9     186.0
Other/Autres                          __        __          2.3        6.2          8.5       1
Total                                                     614.0      110. 0      724. 0    100            687.5      261.3   948.8        100             12.0      137.5      31.0
Total as 7/ Ot total recurrent budget/
Total en % du budget de fonctionnement total                                                19.8                                           22.2
1J  Until 1976 the Fiscal year was from October 1 to Septemiiber 30. In 1977, adjustment with tEle Calendar year/Jusqu'en  1976 l'année
budgétaire était du ler octobre au 30 septe :,.re, Eni 1977, elle a été ajusLée sur l'année civile.
Source:  Mission estimates based on data supplieJ, ty the Ministry of Finance for Fiscal Years 1975-76 and 1977/Estimations de la
mission basées sur les connées fournies par le Ministère des finances pour les années budgétaires 1975-76 et 1977.



GcTNEA - FIRST EPUCATION PP0JECT/GUIPFF - PREMIER `PROJET EDCCIJOY
Modern Sectcr Requirements cf new Workers by Skill Level, 1976-19P5/
Prévision des besoins en main-d'oeuvre du secteur mroderne par niveau de qualificaticns, 197c-1985
Professionals,    Skilled and Semi-          Skilled         Semi-skilled   Unskilled
Managers,          skilled white-collar    blue-collar    blue-collar    vorRers and
Technicians/       workers/Employés          workers/        workers/Ou-    others/Man-
Cadres et          qualifiés et semi-        Ouvriers        vriers semi-   oeuvres et        Total/
techniciens        qualifiés                 qualifiés        qualifiés      autres            Total
Rural/Secteur rural                630               1,030                   530              910             i4,hco-/       17,500
Miring/Mines                       640               1,16C                 4,000            5,780              4,750          16,330
M4anufacturt-ng inoustry/
Industries manufacturières       170                 480                   720            2,170              3,480           7,020
Electricity, Water, Etc./
Electricité, eaux               260               1,570                   890            1,720             1,100            5,5140
Construction/Construction          590               1,33C                 5,030            7,390            10,220           24,'j60
Transport, Communications/
Transports, communications       290               1,560                 1,100            1,180              3,920           8,050                o
Commerce and other servicesl
Commerce et autres services  1,980                 5,1cO                 1,380            1,970              3,760          i4,250
Public administration/                                                                                              21
Administration publique        9,910              15,180                 1,380            l,540            10,4î10-'        38,420
Total/Total                     14 ,L70             27,470                15,030           22,660             52,040         131,67C
Average per pear/Mo,yenne
annuelle                      1 ,LL7              2,747                 1,503            2,266              5,204          13,167
%    11.0                20.o                  11.4             17.2               39.5           100.0
t       Includes 3,'ûIO  ski_led an;d seri-skl lec. agrn c.i i   wcrkars/ r  ccmurls 3.'78C   apueros arico'es qualifiés et cemî-qualifié2
U/ Tncludes 810 ski'led and semi-skitced agriculturs' ;TcT ers/Y comrrris 810 ouvriers agricoles qualifiés et semi-qualifiés.
Source: Mission estimate. Skills level requirements taken mainly from data on comparable occupational structures in other
West African countries./Estimations de la mission. Les besoins par niveau de qualifications ont été calculés en se
basant sur les données de structurres d'emu  ols comparabloes d'autres pays d'Afrique de l'ouest.



- 31 -                                                ANNEX 1.8
GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PECJECT/GUINEE - PREMIER PROJET EDISCAU!ION
Needs for Skilled Workers in Selected Agencies, 1978-1982/
Besoins en ouvriers qualifiés pour des agences sélectionnées, 1978-1982
Directorate            Guinean Water             National Electricity  1eneral Directorate for
Roass  and Bridges/  Directorate/                Corporation/Société   uoral Works/Direction
Direction des ponts  Direction des Eaux          nationale                générale des Grards
et chaussées           de Guinée                 d'électricité              énagements ruraux
Actual/        Needs  Actual/          Needs/L' Ictual/           Needs-'$ctual/    Needs/
Effectifs   Besoins  Effectifs   Besoins          ffectifs       Daesoins Effectifs 1esoins
General Mechanics/Mécaniciens                                                                 8
Auto/heavy equipment mechanics/Mécaniciens
sur autos/poids lourds                                 299           360                   10           9              12         -        28
Masons (inc1. reinforced concretefiron works)/
Maçons (y compris béton armé/arnature)                 16'           130                    2          12              26         -        35
Carpenters/CGarcentiers                                  106            6D       62                      l14             2b                  11
Electricians/Electriciens                                 12             -                    7         410             210         -
Welders, blacksniths, etc./Soudeurs, forgerons, etc. 65                 60                                                          _
'ltumbers/Plombbiers                                       7             -                   21            2              9                    -
Metal construction Workers/Ouvr-ers (charpentes
métalliques                                                           2C
650          630       62          18         447             281          -        79
Mission estimate of proportion of needs
cequ-ring CAP level worker training (IPS)/
EPtirnations yar la mission de la proportion
des besoins en main-d'oeuvre, niveau C.A.P.(IPS)                       252                   48                          93          -       79
External financing/Financement extérieur                -IDA Highway I/           - Proposed IDA         -Proposed IDA           -EDF project for
Routes I IDA              Water supply I(FY79)Energy I (FY 80)!         Rural wcrks (FY6E
-crcmosed !IA             /Addoctions eaux t   Energie t                  Projet EDF des
Highway Il (FY 80)!/      (proposé cour année (proposé pour année  travaux ruraux
Routes II IDA (pro-        budgétaire 79î        budgétaire 60W          (année budgétair
posé pour annee bud-                                                       82)
gétaire 80)
i/ Categories C and D (teehsricians, f'orenen)    /Catégories C et D (techniciens, maîtrise)
2/ Categories D, E and F (foremen,  skilled and semi-skilled vorkers)/Catégories D, E, et F (maîtrise, ouvriers qualifiés et semi-
qualifiés)
Observet ions
Actual staff appears high in the Directorate for Roads and Bridges and the National Electricity Corporation.  In fact it is foubtful
w`nether all this staff really complies  sith its official functions.  During many years there were practi-ally nc acti,sities in
road building and maintenance and little activity in water supply and electrical  maintenance.  During that tine no training took
clace. Goverrn-ent officials estimate thereforsthat only part of the existing staff can be "recuperated" through in-service trainirg.
Not e:
Le nombre du personnel effectif à la Direction des ponts et chaussées et à la Compagnie nationale d'électricité semble élevé.  En
fait, il est douteux que tDut ec personnel s'acquitte vraiment de ses fonctions officielles.  Durant de nombreuses années il n'y a
praticuement eu alucune activité dans le secteur de la construction et de l'entretien des routes, et très peu d'activité en ce qui
concerne - entretien des adductions d'eau et de l'électricité.  Etant donné que pendant cette époque il n'y a eu aucune activité
de fcrmatisn, les responsables do Gouve-nement estiment que seulement -u  nombre minime des employés actuellement en poste peut être
"récupéré" par une formation en cours d'emploi.
Source:  Governrent estimates/Soerce: Estimations du Gouvernement



GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT/GUINEE - PREMIER PROJET EDUCATION
Cost Swusary Table/Tableau somaire des coGts du projetl/
(US$'000)/en milliers de dollars E,U.)
':`echnical
Total Civil                                        Fees/    Assistance/
Project Element/                              Site Devel-                       Works/Génie        Furniture/    Equipment/    Hlono-    Assistance            Feliowships/
Eléments du Projet                            opment/VRD        Constraction  Civil                Mobilier        Equipement    raires   Technique            Bouirses          Total
IFI                                                                 145              575           720                   70            250            55          1,560             200            2,855
IPS-A                                                               120              490           610                   30            400            45           --                --            1,085
IFS-GC                                                              165              670           835                   40            400            65           --                 _            1,340
Staff Housing/Logements de fonction                                 145              570           715                  110              --           55           --                --              880
Educational Planning/Planification de l'éducation                    --               --            --                   10              50           --            300              50              410
Project Managemen:t/Gestion du Projet                                --               --            --                   10              50           --            300              50              410
Base Cost/Coût de base                                              575            2,305         2,880                 270           1,150           220          2,160             300            6,980
Physical Contingencies/Imprévus quantités                                            230           288                   27            115            --             --              --              430
Expected Price Increases/Prévision augmentation des prix             86              345           431                   39            179                          756              90            1,I95
Total Contingencies/Total imprévus                                   '4              S75           719                   66             294           --            756              90             1,925
Total Cost/CoOt total
____________________________719                2.880         3J599                  336           1,444          220          2,916              qgn            8,905
Taxes
151              605           756                  71             302            --             --              --            1,129
Total Cost (including taxes)/Coût total, inclus taxes               870            3,485         4,355                  407           1,746          220          2,916             390            10,030
Foreign Exchange/Devises étrangeres
73%              737,         73%                 100%            100%          100%           100%            100-/o            89%
(uunt)/(montant>;        - 574            2,102         2,626                  336           1,444          220          2,916             390             7,982
1/ US$1   Sylis 20/1 dollar EU = 20 sylis



GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT/GUINEE - PREMIER PROJET EDUCAli`ON
Contingency Allowances/Provisions pour imprévus
(US$'000)/(en milliers de dollars EU)
Expected
Physical                     Price Increases/             Total              Total Cost
Contingencies/                      Previsions           Contingencies/           including
Babe Line Costs/           ImprEvus                        Augmentation          Total imprévus        Contingencies/
Cout de base             quantités          Total            des prix                (2+4)             Coût total,
Category/Categorie                                       %    Amount/          %    Amount/           (1+2)    %    Amount/              7,    Amount/        inclus imprévus
Montant               Montant                          Montant                  Montant               (1+5)
(1)                   (2)                (3)           (4)                      (5)
Civil Works/                    Total Cost/
Génie civil                     Coût total                      2,880           10     288            3,168        14       431          25     719                 3,599
Local/Local             27        778          10      78              856        14        117         25      195                   973
Foreign/Devises
étrangères       73     2,102           10     210            2,312        14       314          25     524                  2,626
Furniture/Mobilier              Foreign/Devises
étrangères      100        270          10      27              297        14         39          24      66                   336
Equipment/Equipement            Foreign/Devises
étrangères      100     1,150           10     115            1,265        15        179         25     294                  1,444
Professional Fees/              Foreign/Devises                                                                                                                                       r
Honoraires                             étrangères       100       220          --     --                220             --               --     --                     220
Technical Assistance/
Assistance technique            Foreign/Devises
étrangêres      100     2,160           --     --             2,160        35        756         35      756                 2,916
Fellowships/Bourses             Foreign/Devises
étrangères      100        300          --    --                300        30         90         30       90                   390
Total/Total:                    Local/Local                       778                   78              856                 117                 195                    973
Foreign/Devises
étrangéres              6,202                  352            6,554               1,378               1,730                  7,982
Total Cost/Coût total:                                          6,980                 430             7,410               1,495               1,925                  8,905
Expected price increases are calculated on the basis of:/Les prévisions d'augmentation des prix sont calculées sur la base de:
(i)  project completion by December 1982/achèvement du projet en décembre 1982;
(ii)  price increase rates corresponding to estimated progress of work per year/taux d'augmentation des prix
correspondant à l'estimation des progrès réalisés chaque année dans la construction;
(iii) project base costs plus physical contingencies/coûts de base du projet plus imprévus quantités;
(iv) the following annual percentage increases in prices/Taux d'augmentation annuel des prix suivants:
1977-79       1980-82
Civil Works/Travaux de génie civil                                    9%             87,
Furniture and Equipment/Mobilier et équipement                        7.57,           7/
Technical Assistance and Fellowships/Assistance technique
et Bourses                                        8%              8%



ANNOEX 1. Il
H~~~~~~~--        
-                                      
o ~ ~ ~~                                 
15
-   -   -  - - -
-   -   -  - - -
-e ~ ~      ~      ~      ~      -          -  --          -
Z ~ ~      ~      ~     ~       --              -   -- --
>
~~~~~~~~



t              9
I I ' 2\ - I IIlSI   tOtAl I .\1(:11,,1 Mît 1  , I -  'tO `E_ltn' î 1:I).''.' i   `
tI lt tX1:      MIt  1^:AI  N,l,lî'll   ('A I\!1,`1  '',.11:11',A..:\  1'11\111  1,, \sI ou   ii;Aî:l  ¾.'',.t  Pr. 'À'  2 1F   1 "2 *'r(l  t I  Lt111 <'1k
.A.  I     .ECHNiICAL ASSISIANCL/AoSAItANL     loI
Pout 00./                  -ftloIi'ittc       -l------at-                                         tt    iy. '          ItSut.  t-'. 1551
No^  du                                                                     ,(nuie~t < ulrot       îloit,lt           o cut tut  'ol(wlx1u titfit'                   "osa                                                        lie o(eccfpttott
Pou e                           _       _ _        _ _ ___ _Ictotcuocme't                                              colo tc' -.1:, . _t  tz1s  uecttutot _Si____                                             ______    tuossmmir  'ls postes             __    _____
1.       Oltuof lt-loto ut Atlot sou-/fout, t îlot- sucolzqo-
prcututpol                       I;                01  1979              (li,010e                      tvotol I iltirli479t ttoo I2 ita"osîit-  putotons;g        l-do-l t-Is   le l'feus blo  d-s poogoa-.es dr
uuufotop u lotouiat stoP1;  reoorgaoioatifou              los'ootfou, fomt'iotso   do petsoonnel goinéen;
ut tuutsuttug  IPS  t tuocuoro, outoblfsil,p              téorgoous tonn  dot struutos dF IPS exista  ts;
utouloilurl  ot toinrltioutfo.                            Ptohouttioo  dos normuos W oosofgooteoeO.
as orl Npg iaeldlitt/lt-port-t ou1 tolrtttiotl
-.       'locsouou 'Lit-utouNouk                                             2.i"a                                  I 50 000
3.       Etouitutuot 'uttci.u tté                                            'A,>                                   150,0011
dolduog Itgsoudoti                                                  2.5>                                   0(15d,000                       ouuuit(g uputoftsop  fo     1ttuitues and ptogtomu       lousoltasfoo des tut-sou dosttoee a lu formoa---
5.       A.oooti. c/uéuootqiî aisouobttp                                     2.5 /                                  150 001)                       fut sktI14d -ookerF and instruutors  to                   d-s otti-tu  tpéca-liOus os dos isouu teuri  e
6.       Ilosouy/uaouoci                                                     2.5               7/1' 190             150,000                        -utouts upousattzeooonu   uo1ouso   sud                   dtuorucu  spétsalifs utd defisto   duo prop--nes
7.       Catpouco/ciourpesuc                                                 '.5                                    IS0,000                        Lraioing ut  uituosu 0000 teupattu.                       do   ooutou.  Oêoctuo  et  îo-nssior  les
8.       Sl-eettot/oètoos os touilit                                         2.5 \150,000                                                                                                                    I.omologuos goisCos,
9.       Pltobifog/pltotbotit                                                2.5                                    i50,00
t0.      Oloe. ot/oliruol                                                    z0                                     t 50.000
'tto :olirpoc-  Oîur.i.<  Iti 'o,,:r1 .oocic o  sut dî rrot-tot         5.0               /1! 1,0000           180,000                       'laoscouuot aod adotcut-stuatuo  tt                        GossLponte  oduituttorotuos du projet.
.:u ptto,et                                                                                                                            Puoject loni,.
I `.     folittuo     As' . Pronect  it-octot-  Ont tioit-Oit Al.           2,0                4/1/1479             L20,000                       Oupotuusuou o. uuulstrt-t tiOO , proOement                 Oupotofufo3u des tusfu de co-otrucsiou,  de lo
du  t    r-t-'''  "                                                      ant t                                                         sud equtp'too t  -^staitotionu.                           passat     dosuoarchés os de t'instaltation  de
13.      Edoua 1uo11- Ptoou-u/Ptauffuusoot  do t'ducsttI-                    2,0               7,'1/1979            120,000                        Sohotoputut1 ci souhtufal ond og-'sctl tt'al              Elbo       ues  p                        tt
oducasion and stoinitg.                                   do foutuot   toohIiqoos et agriooles.
14.      Coooutaotu7/Couultaut                                                 0 3                1/197q            180,000                        Develtopsent uf fusLe edousto-  puojocs,.                 Elaboration do p-ujets édoi-tifo tutértes.
'loral  oulechicot  RitufuosucoI                 ot.I                                 d2,150,000
Total Sosfistaoup ît-ul'twiq,t
i.  FELLOWftSO tP/ 0Pi l1'tS
1-t10.  id-ssou lut  iusuîîiog/îotussuoo  dsî  trt-octor                   20                  7.'1/1979            200,000                        iouhouat opgosduolg sud/ou spo-Sot trusts11               Poofoutiooooooot teubu qoe  t/ou  forsato
fua0e tiusoso sFs souctu rs o bcomcu                         idggi  p_  ut 1r0 iuct r          _uteurs gotuIes-
qoatifffd to-uo-   ot tlto lFt.                           I tIFI.  Cot itu -stoo-  -eu-ot sppelés
Odousofu d-spoesuusq,tff.
Il.      Ptoît-sIa:iugosots/t.ouioou du p-ojcu                               2                 7/1, 1980             20,000                                                             IIatofog  uu projeuL usssgeuoosoad  Fooratiou  eo g outfou et ouganfsation  do
u-sot eotto'tn                                            projeLs.
/2,      Pt-ocuu'ltouil'ouu,uutoti do ortulit                                2                  2l1/ll2              20,00u                        Sp-uiatuzid  L-coîss   fur                                   - îtuot-ui''o  Potuosion opéufslusée posuo-   teuhnicies oo
t_thticua .                                               psssstiou do mtarhés.
13.      -clî...l (iou-tou /         osstuutoo scu                           2                  7 1 1 98(            20,000                        Spousaliocd tussofng  for ao archit-    t oortuuoo  opltsss    posr os architecte oo
Sutld top coonrtoucoioo  cngincer.                        uutuingénouruf tiL. 
14.     cLlo-,ioo- I P o-uiug/Pîutîtlcou  ou I-duiot t t'                                           197`l)          20,000                        -cdatlu u op  oun       o   quiitlotl -   schoc/         Fopusuios suplusour' pou-  un puofosseo_
ails totu saoto                                           qualif-f /odttsfsuts,ouur.
1t.      I7duua5fouît  Soussutic</Nuaufs2siq0oo  do  Itoduuauîoo            _                   2                    2,000                         Gaasol-t  tuafiilIg  fur a qoatififd ououoîuusL.          Fortionsopérieoro  poor u  économiste q-olifit.
osai ut-t tttuuhips/  It                                       300,0112
Votal houut-e



ANNEX 1.13
- 36 -
GUINEA - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT/GUINEE - PREMIER PROJET EDUCATION
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS/CALENDRIER DES DECAISSEMENTS
US$ 000/en milliers de dollars EU)
Accumulated      Undisbursed
Disbursements/  Balance/
Fiscal Year*/      Quarter/   Disbursements/  Décaissements   Solde non
Année budgétaire  Trimestre  Décaissements   accumulés           décaissé
1979             3              220               220         7,780
4              280               500         7,500
1980             1              315               815         7,185
2              360             1,175         6,825
3              370             1,545         6,455
h           1,48o              3,025         4,975
1981             1            1,510             4,535         3,465
2              970             5,505         2,495
3              745             6,250         1,750
4              380             6,630         1,370
1982             1              320             6,950         1,050
2              255             7,205           795
3              255             7,460           54o
4              265             7,725           275
1983             1              245             7,970            30
2               30             8,000             0
*  Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30
*  Année budgétaire:  ler juillet - 30 juin



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports and Studies Relating to Education
1.   Education Sector Memorandum, September, 1976.
2.   Guinea:  The Education System, March 1978.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Etude préparatoire pour la création d'un institut de
formation d'instructeurs pour les IPS et d'un IPS
génie civil. Bureau International du Travail,
Genève, September 1977.
2.   Etude architecturale:  IFI et IPS;  Pierre Oudot
(architecte) Paris, October 1977.



1
1



y       <1' C-D4AANA-       4'         Tfl,                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD  13575 R
M  cc   UM                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AUGUST  1'78
0 <0s S ~~~~~E N E<_20'X
Yo  nKounouM                                                                                                                                      AL
E AUR[TM!AL  N   G         MlI) I
SENEG                         t                                                                                                                                     -.                      t                 t.<X:  D;  
`TAN/ (<AO- ar/ /0X;4100
1)0~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
SclidiryPolyehicntle P*blcros   5                               Fè)recar ch      t  X - -f  ;FlesO
an        ese oq 
Q       M5onqhroevcchnislue                    lt r           S              C        [ t t R1    t               t        _   rfES /                      f         , /XSeredo,
Aad /a              cnsreM
+  RegMarIy para ced Airlielde ~ ~ ~        ~        roar c
-d- P.11-h-                                     1      R   R   A      L       0        N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                    Zoek                           NMB
, epndrplyvechnlGlt Iffwlel-I   P l oTdletie  j 1_                                                                                                                                          iÉ,/  +  ûoaJ//
end u       d--d    PP 1jitI
tIIrUrban' Jp       PraMaOf M 'ba'aan0 M,',r  «nMJ o,                                                                        A  ff '/
s~~
_ iihwsv ProrT IUI ,  . -1 (IDA
`0            aflaMA~  a';~t'r,>, M"MM.'ainOcbe                   lopmenTPoics   0 6)GutA"""NS Z *Beyle
("'eck~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~" ToMooo
t,i,  fiA+mngproir t1                 a   -                           ~REPUBLIC  OFE  GUINEA                                                                         S r                    J
Fm ishnrl,                                                   ,'9.                                                                            "vt               -                                            0t
---- Re. drvo,                                                              FIRST EDUCATION  PROJ EC                                               Y -                                          
R.gulerIy        via Ai,1i.1ds                                                                                                                           À>  L   1 13 E   R I    A  ./.  1`  i
4 p         q,,     6p IsçhsanOblern9solE»»                                        fIXee                                                                                                      \                             Tcbd
MILES , > *E-Z $0 Z PdrJ o/fte rv.s EAA; dAH rUs ~~~~~~~~ f / / \ l \Wa \R,
A   a~r/fBrANnt  u   *--f-.«o   t   2+\ /                                                X          f>;Minrvi;                                              B



