Document of
fithE  ED?J0The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2366a-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A FIRST
EDUCATION PROJECT
August 29, 1978
This document bhs a restricted distrlbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =         Syli
US$1.00          =         20 Sylis
Syli 1.00        =         US$0.05
MEASURES
1 m                        3.28 ft.
1 m              =        10.76 sq. ft.
1 km2            =         0.38 sq. mile
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          African Development Bank
COMECON      Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
EEC     =    European Economic Community
ILO          International Labour Organisation
OECD    =    Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31 (since 1977)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Guinea
Amount:            US$8.0 million
Terms:              Standard.
Proiect            The project aims to (a) help alleviate Guinea's shortage
Description:       of skilled workers by improving and expanding technical
training programs, and (b) strengthen the country's educa-
tional planning and project implementation capacities. The
proposed project would have the following components: (a)
construction of and furniture and equipment for (i) an
institute with a capacity for about 110 students to train
and upgrade instructors for secondary polytechnic insti-
tutes, (ii) two polytechnic institutes, combined capacity
400, to train and upgrade skilled workers for industry and
public works, and (iii) accommodations for instructional
staff; (b) equipment and materials for the Ministry of
Education's planning office and for a project management
unit; and (c) 36 man-years of technical assistance and
consulting services, and 30 man-years of fellowships in
support of the above items. The project's benefits would
be the creation of a supply of instructors for the secondary
polytechnic institutes, improvement of training in these
institutes, expansion of the number of skilled workers for
the indLustrial and public works sectors, and establishment
of a project planning and implementation capacity in the
Ministry of Education. The project faces no major risks;
however, the Guinean Government may have some difficulty
recruiting well-trained instructors and allocating suffi-
cient amounts of foreign exchange. These factors were
taken :Lnto account in the design of the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:*
Foreign      Local      Total
-      (US$ million)-------
Category of Expenditure
Construction                   2.3          0.8        3.1
Furniture                      0.3            -        0.3
Equipment                       1.1           -         1.1
Technical Assistance           2.2            -        2.2
Fellowships                    0.3           -         0.3
BASE COST                  6.2          0.8        7.0
Contingencies
Physical                     0.4           -         0.4
Price escalation             1.4          0.1        1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST             8.0          0.9        8.9
*  Taxes are not included in the project cost calculations because the
Government provides tax exemptions for development projects included
in the Economic and Social Development Plan.
Financing Plan:
US$ million
IDA Credit                                        8.0
Government                                        0.9
Total                                        8.9
Estimated Disbursements:
FY79      FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83
---------US$ million--------
Annual             0.5       2.5      3.6      1.1     0.3
Cumulative         0.5       3.0      6.6      7.7     8.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  2025a-GUI, dated August 15, 1978.
MAP: IBRD 13575 R



INI'ERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the i.ollowing report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Guinea for the equivalent of US$8.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an Education Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report (No. Af-63b, dated September 1, 1967)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 22, 1968. From 1970
to 1977 a number of economic missions visited the country during which a
wide-ranging and active dialogue was conducted with the Government on several
economic, monetary, and other development issues. Our last economic mission
took place in March 1978, and its findings and those of earlier missions
are reflected in the following assessment of the state of the economy and its
prospects.
Structure of the Econom[y
3.        Guinea is potentially one of the richest countries in West Africa
with substantial natural resources in the rural sector, mining, and to a
lesser extent hydroelectric power. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones,
from the sub-Saharan north to sub-tropical mountain areas in the center and
tropical forest in the south, allows the production of a variety of agricul-
tural commodities. At the time of Independence in 1958, Guinea had been
the leading African exporter of bananas (100,000 tons per year) and also
exported considerable quantities of coffee, pineapple and palm oil; it was
able to meet most of its basic foodstuff requirements, whereas it is now a
food importer. The country is particularly well suited for rice and livestock
production. Guinea's extraordinarily rich mining potential includes bauxite
reserves tentatively estimated at 4.5 billion tons, the second largest in the
world, while readily exportable high-grade iron ore deposits are estimated at
over one billion tons. Prospects for diamond and uranium mining and offshore
oil exploration are being actively investigated.
Long-Term Trends
4.        In spite of this outstanding resource endowment, economic perform-
ance from the time of Independence until 1972 was disappointing. While lack
of adequate data prevents a detailed assessment, estimated real growth of GNP
during this period was less than 2.5 percent annually. This was somewhat
lower than the annual estimated population growth rate of 2.6 percent and
therefore real per capita incomes actually declined. The years following



- 2 -
Independence were characterized by a comprehensive reorganization of all
economic and social activities in Guinea with a view to building a social-
ist economy. This entailed (a) a sharp curtailment of the private sector
and the establishment of Government trading companies operating at con-
trolled prices, (b) the creation of numerous public enterprises, and (c)
extensive State investment in industrial and social infrastructure. Returns
on many projects were limited by inexperience and managerial and planning
inadequacies, and public enterprises absorbed high and rising amounts of
Government resources. The capital and recurrent costs of public investment
soon exceeded budgetary savings and the Government resorted to heavy foreign
borrowing and Central Bank advances to finance them. Foreign borrowing from
both Western and Eastern bloc countries was carried out on an ad hoc basis
with little longer-term planning and soon resulted in unmanageable debt
obligations that could not be met by declining export proceeds. At the same
time the liberal advances of the Central Bank led to a huge increase in money
supply and galloping inflation. Consequently the public trading enterprises
could neither obtain adequate supplies of local goods at official prices nor
distribute them widely enough, and an active parallel market developed with
prices as much as ten times their official level. Furthermore, the lack of
foreign exchange caused sharp reductions in imports of intermediate inputs,
which constrained production in both manufacturing and agriculture, and in
consumer goods, all of which limited incentives throughout the economy. The
economy thus stagnated in a vicious circle of foreign exchange shortages and
declining investment, output and exports.
5.        While lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of im-
ported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money supply
strongly stimulated local demand, contributing from that side to the growing
imbalance between supply and demand at official prices. As a result of 15
years of deficit financing, money supply reached a high level of nearly 70
percent of GDP in 1972 or over three times the level attained in most other
West African countries. Most of this money overhang was concentrated in
the urban areas where it aggravated the severe excess demand situation and
absorbed much of the limited supply of goods that would otherwise have been
available to the rural areas.
6.        At a socio-economic level, these trends created considerable diffi-
culties.  The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated prin-
cipally at a subsistence level, selling as little as possible in the official
market, and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported
consumer goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for
the limited supply of goods it could buy through official channels with
rationing cards and supplement its needs in the unofficial market at very
high prices. Large segments of the urban population were thus affected by
the system as much as the average farmer.
Recent Developments
7.        The start of operations at two large bauxite mines in 1974 marked
the end of this long period of economic stagnation. Since then, real per



- 3 -
capita incomes have increased year by year at an average of nearly 7.5 per-
cent, although they have not yet reached pre-Independence levels in real
terms. By 1977 GDP in current terms was estimated at US$1,192 million, and
based on an estimated population of 4.7 million, annual per capita GNP was
US$230. 1/ The rural sector continues to dominate the economy, although
with the recent growth of the mining sector, the share of GDP at factor
costs contributed by the rural sector has fallen, declining from 56 percent
in 1974 to 48 percent in 1977. The share of GDP in other sectors during
1977 was 21 percent in mining, 6 percent in manufacturing, power and con-
struction, 15 percent in public administration, and 10 percent in other
services. Although administration of the economy is still extremely cen-
tralized, mining has been a mixed sector since Independence and the Govern-
ment works extremely well with private foreign companies, encouraging further
private mining investments. Agricultural policies are under review, with
Government abandoning attempts to collectivize farming activities in favor
of promoting voluntary farm cooperatives. Banking and manufacturing remain
entirely State controlled. While, de jure, all trading takes place through
official State channels, the Government has recently become more tolerant
of private trading; improving relations between Guinea and the Ivory Coast
and Senegal have led to some lessening of restrictions on the circulation
of goods and people, and this has relieved part of the pressure on prices
in the private markets.
Performance
8.        Guinea's overall economic performance has improved significantly
since 1972, although fundamental structural problems continue to hamper the
country's economic deve:Lopment. The markedly faster growth of GDP is mostly
attributable to the start of the two new mining operations, and is in itself
not a sufficient sign of better performance. More important, however, are
the Government policies concerning the use of the additional foreign exchange
resources created by the two mines, which to the extent possible have been
carefully allocated in an effort to overcome the economy's structural con-
straints. Thus, while nearly half of these export earnings has had to be used
to pay for direct foreign exchange costs of the two mining operations, the
remainder has gone mainly to increase imports of essential raw materials and
certain consumer goods with a view to (a) providing more inputs for manufac-
turing and agriculture, (b) improving rural producer incentives, and (c)
reducing excess demand. In the agricultural sector these measures have been
complemented by a number of actions intended to increase production, such as
1/   Although an official government census put total 1972 population at
5.5 million, a critical evaluation of this census and later data on
test regions do not support a figure above 4.2 million for 1972 and
4.7 for mid-1977. All population-related data in this report are
based on this latter figure. GDP is based on the findings of a recent
UNDP/government agricultural survey and is higher than past estimates.
Therefore, population and GDP figures differ from those in the Bank
Atlas, now being updated to reflect these changes.



- 4 -
more rural public investment, a slight increase in some producer prices,
and more deliberate efforts to improve distribution of consumer goods in
the hinterland. As a result, food imports have declined slightly over
the last two years, further improving Guinea's foreign exchange situation.
9.         Increased imports as well as the substantial export tax revenues
on bauxite were also used to improve the monetary situation; a large part of
Government and public enterprises revenues so created were turned over to the
Central Bank to amortize the high level of accumulated Central Bank advances.
As a result, the increase in money supply slowed down well below the rapid
growth of GDP, leading to a marked reduction in the money overhang. This was
an important factor in the nearly 50 percent fall in prices on the parallel
market over the last two years, which led to an improvement in the real pur-
chasing power of most of Guinea's poorest population.
10.       Since 1974, public revenues have been growing at 33 percent
annually, but public recurrent expenditures have increased at only 12 per-
cent per year. Government is allocating an increased proportion of its
recurrent budget for maintenance expenses and for the purchase of spare
parts, which reflects its growing desire to maintain and fully exploit exist-
ing capital assets. There is such a backlog of necessary maintenance, however,
that even with higher allocations Government services and public enterprises
have difficulty operating normally. Finally, the viability of the extensive
system of public enterprises is under examination; a few of the least success-
ful have been closed down while a rehabilitation program has been embarked
upon for some others. The Government's objective is to make these enterprises
self-sufficient, and it is becoming insreasingly realistic in recognizing the
need to revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, ensure adequate credit
to maintain working capital and stocks, and call upon foreign technical
assistance to strengthen operational efficiency.
Development Planning and Objectives
11.       Development planning in Guinea has so far met with limited success,
and implementation of the 1973-1978 Plan was suspended in 1974 when Plan goals
became unrealistic and the economy was undergoing substantial change. Since
then capital expenditures have been determined annually, subject to the
availability of foreign credit. Between 1973 and 1975 investment had to be
financed entirely by foreign capital inflows. In 1976 and 1977 net domestic
public savings were positive and financed a substantial share of public in-
vestment, which was, however, less than half the 1973-75 level. Thus total
investment outlays fell from US$79 million in 1974 to US$28 million in 1976
and US$31.5 million in 1977 due especially to the completion of the two
major bauxite mining projects. Finally, the sectoral distribution of public
investments also varied considerably, with the proportion of rural investment
rising from some 11 percent in 1974 to almost 33 percent in 1975 and falling
back to 18 percent in 1976. The share of industry and mining declined from
46 percent in 1974 to 24 percent in 1976.



-5-
Prospects
12.       While the Government's first investment priority is now rural devel-
opment, in the short and medium term Guinea's prospects hinge critically on
the rate of growth in the mining sector. Export earnings in current prices
increased from US$61 million in 1973 to US$312 million in 1977 and will reach
US$494 million by 1980 when the two bauxite mines that started production in
1974 reach full capacity. This level of exports is expected to be maintained
during the next decade. New projects scheduled for completion by 1985 would
permit exports to exceed US$1.5 billion in 1985 and reach more than twice that
amount by 1990 when new mines begin producing at full capacity. However, in
view of the lengthy implementation period for these new mining projects, the
foreign exchange gap will continue to grow in the next few years in spite of a
high expected real average growth rate of GDP (9%) until 1985, prompted by the
secondary effects of these heavy investments. If there is much slippage in
the realization of these investments the country's acute financial problems
would be prolonged and the acceleration in growth retarded. Guinea will need
large amounts of foreign aid to support the balance of payments until at least
1985 to enable it to carry out vital mining investments without reducing its
already low standard of living.
13.       The prospects for Guinea's general macroeconomic development are
good. The Government is determined to further improve the monetary situation,
to correct the results c,f past overly expansionary policies, and to do away
with the profound disequilibrium between supply and demand which caused the
flourishing parallel market and the rationing of basic consumer goods in the
towns. The question still remains as to how best these goals may be achieved.
It is unlikely that any sudden, fundamental changes will be enacted to restruc-
ture the macroeconomic system as a whole. In the interests of political and
economic caution, a graclual approach will probably be taken. This would
involve the revision of industrial and producer prices, a reassessment of the
public enterprises sector, and a continued shrinking of the money supply in
relation to GDP. Both the Bank and IMF have begun and are maintaining an
increasingly effective dialogue with Government on these questions, including
foreign debt.
Foreign Assistance and Debt
14.       In the past few years Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance by seeking aid from the West (notably France) with whom
relations have markedly improved. The country has obtained multilateral aid
from ADB, EEC, and IDA, as well as from OPEC countries (Algeria, Iraq, Libya,
Kuwait Fund, Saudi Fund).  Guinea has had a heavy foreign debt burden for many
years which has siphoned off a large portion of its limited foreign exchange.
In spite of several debt rescheduling agreements, the situation became un-
manageable in the early 1970s, and by mid-1976 Guinea had accumulated arrears
of US$88 million. Debt service obligations in that year (excluding arrears)
reached some US$54 million or 25 percent of total export proceeds, although
actual payments were at most 20 percent of what was due. Of these arrears,
some 85 percent was due to Western countries, particularly the Federal



- 6 -
Republic of Germany. At the end of 1976, total debt outstanding including
undisbursed reached some US$950 million, nearly 88 percent of which was in the
form of long-term loans and only 12 percent was supplier credits. The USSR
and the People's Republic of China are by far the two largest creditor coun-
tries (holding respectively 30 and 13 percent of Guinea's total debt) while
COMECON countries together with China account for 50 percent. OECD countries
hold close to 23 percent, multilateral agencies and the OPEC countries 10
and 6 percent each, while minor amounts are owed to a number of developing
countries.
15.       Notwithstanding Guinea's favorable long-term balance of payments
prospects, the accumulated claims on the country's foreign exchange earnings
will remain so heavy in the next few years that not all debt servicing obli-
gations can be covered. With debt service charges of at least US$100 million
per year, little amortization of foreign debt will be possible during the
late 1970s and early 1980s, even if foreign capital inflows cover the entire
foreign exchange cost of new investments, and arrears are thus likely to rise
further. Guinea is already negotiating debt rescheduling programs bilaterally
with some of its creditors and has requested Bank advice on the design of a
program of debt management. With continued tight control and monitoring of
imports of spare parts and raw materials and restraint on the importing of
consumer goods, foreign exchange earnings should start to exceed minimum
import requirements by about 1980 and debt amortization could then begin
again. During the next few critical years, however, Guinea will have to rely
on substantial amounts of foreign assistance on concessionary terms not only
for investment purposes but also to provide foreign exchange for essential
imports including consumption goods.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
16.       To date, the Bank Group has financed three operations in Guinea.
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in 1968 and 1971 financed infrastructure
for the Boke bauxite mining project. IDA credits of US$7.0 million and US$14
million respectively were granted in June 1975 for a pineapple development
project and in December 1975 for a road maintenance project. Annex II con-
tains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       In view of the shortage of foreign exchange and the poor state of
infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects aimed at promoting
mining and agricultural exports and rehabilitating the road system. The Boke
project was completed satisfactorily and bauxite output has increased steadily,
reaching about 7.4 million tons in 1977. Despite some delays in execution,
the Daboya project is now exporting fresh fruit to Europe and a second pine-
apple project based on expanded smallholder development is under considera-
tion. The First Highway project followed shortly after the Daboya Credit
and aims at rehabilitating and maintaining the essential road infrastructure
network vital for agricultural development.



18.       Two public utilities projects are now being prepared for water
supply and electric power, with the first expected to go to the Board during
the current fiscal year., Both projects are in Conakry, the capital, where
power and water distribution problems have become critical. The two opera-
tions are the Bank's first in the public enterprise sector and emphasize
rehabilitation of existiLng infrastructure and institution building. Two other
projects are under preparation in rice and in livestock, for which studies
were financed under the Daboya project. Because of the vital importance of
mining in helping alleviate the country's foreign exchange shortage, the Bank
Group is also considering further intervention in this sector.  Feasibility
studies are almost compLeted for the Nimba Iron Ore Mining project. All
projects now under preparation in Guinea emphasize improved management,
investment planning, and project implementation.
19.       The Government's key objectives for educational development are to
increase access to primary education, to improve the quality and scope of
technical and agricultural education at all levels, and to increase the
Ministry of Education's capacity for planning, implementing and evaluating
education and training programs. The education project proposed in this
report would assist the Government in accomplishing these objectives by
improving and expanding training programs for industrial workers and tech-
nicians, training instructional staff, and strengthening the educational
planning capacity of the Ministry of Education.
20.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external debt outstanding and
disbursed and of total debt service amounted to 7 percent and 4.6 percent
respectively in 1977 with IDA representing only a negligible proportion.
By 1985 IDA's contribution to Guinea's total external debt will increase to
about 2 percent while IBRD's will fall to roughly 5 percent. Because most of
the debt presently owed the Bank Group will be amortized by the mid-eighties
and payments on new borrowings will not yet be due, IDA's share of debt
service will remain insignificant, with that of IBRD dropping to 2 percent.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
21.       Guinea has pursued, since independence in 1968, educational policies
that diverge significantly from those inherited from the French education
system and from those of other West African countries.  Primary and secondary
schooling is intended to be mandatory (about 85 percent of those completing
primary school continule into secondary education), local languages are used
as media of instruction in all primary schools and are being introduced
at the secondary level, students undertake productive work as part of the
curriculum at all levels, and the Government assigns jobs to all school
graduates.
Organization and Structure
22.       The education system is administered by the Ministry of Education
and Culture, one of eight high-ranking ministries (Ministeres de Domaine).
Three dependent ministries--Ministry of Pre-University Education and Literacy



- 8 -
Training, Ministry of Higher Education and Distance Learning, and Ministry of
Youth and Sports--have direct responsibility for school administration and
support services. An extensive administrative network of seven regional
inspectorates and 35 sub-regional offices supports the widely dispersed
schools. The system comprises six years of primary school, six years of
secondary school divided into a lower and an upper cycle of three years each,
and university education consisting of a two-year lower cycle and a three-
or four-year upper cycle. Vocational training is provied by ten secondary
polytechnic institutes which cater to the growing manpower needs of the in-
dustrial sector. A small school construction unit, within the Ministry of
Education and Culture, coordinates the building and maintenance of schools.
Access to Education
23.       Total enrollment in primary schools (1976/77) represents about 30
percent of the 7-12 age group. There are considerable regional differences
in enrollment ratios that range from 40 percent in the urban Conakry area
to 18 percent in the rural Labe region. Secondary school enrollment is about
13 percent of the 13-18 age group, with regional differences similar to those
for the primary schools. Total enrollment at the post-secondary institutions
is about 18,000 students, representing 4.3 percent of the 20-25 age group.
Education for Women
24.       In all regions, enrollment of girls still lags behind that of boys.
Girls comprise 34 percent of students in primary school, representing 21 per-
cent of the female 7-12 age group. The proportion of girls declines to 26
percent in secondary school, 20 percent in the lower university cycle, and 12
percent in the upper university cycle. In recent years the Government has
instructed the local communities to admit equal numbers of girls and boys to
primary school; as a result, the proportion of girls in the first primary
grade increased from 33 percent in 1974/75 to 39 percent in 1975/76, and
further increases can be expected.
Quality of Education
25.       Guinea has adapted, in important respects, the content of education
to national needs. At the primary and secondary levels, new and well-adapted
curricula are being developed. Agriculture, including productive work, is
taught in the majority of the secondary schools and has become the most impor-
tant field of study in higher education.
26.       The quality of teaching, however, is adversely affected by an in-
sufficient supply of teaching materials and a scarcity of qualified teachers.
Only 18 percent of primary teachers have adequate qualifications and more
than 60 percent of secondary teachers have only been trained to the level of
primary teachers. The output from five recently constructed teacher training
institutes should result in an improvement in the quality of teaching at both
the primary and secondary levels. In the 10 newly created secondary poly-
technic institutes, critical shortages of teaching materials and a lack of
qualified staff impair the quality of training. Vocational instructors



-9-
generally have little industrial and teaching experience, and for some tech-
nical specializations there are no instructors. Workshop and laboratory
equipment often is not adapted to industrial training needs and in some
schools the equipment hLas become obsolete. Under these difficult circum-
stances, the Government has been unable to develop vocational training courses
that respond adequately to the training needs of the industrial sector.
Financing of Education
27.       Government expenditures for education are moderate by international
standards. In fiscal year 1975/76, the total Government expenditures for
education represented about 4.3 percent of GDP. Recurrent education expendi-
tures in 1975/76 accounted for about 20 percent of the Government budget and
are expected to increase to about 22 percent in 1977, mainly as a result of
increased provision for teaching supplies and equipment. Recurrent costs
per student are low in comparison with other West African countries with a
similar per capita income. In fiscal year 1975/76 these costs reached US$52
in primary school, US$135 in secondary school, US$150-700 in post-secondary
institutes, and US$1,000-2,000 in the upper university cycle. It is expected,
however, that the improvement in teacher qualifications resulting from the
creation of several new teacher training schools will increase unit costs
substantially over the next few years.
28.       Accurate data on capital outlay by type and level of education are
not available. At the primary level, regional and local authorities are
largely responsible for the construction, furnishing and maintenance of school
buildings. The Government also encourages local participation in recurrent
financing of education: in 1975, receipts from school production (agriculture
and crafts) accounted for 13 percent of the total operating costs for second-
ary schools. Since 1976, small school fees have been levied to maintain
Government recurrent expenditures at a moderate level and to allow for the
purchase of basic school supplies. The main obstacle to an adequate supply
of teaching materials and equipment has not been the lack of local funds but
the availability of imported supplies, a consequence of the low import capac-
ity of the Guinean economy.
Employment Requirements and Output of the Education System
29.       In 1975, Guinea's working-age population numbered about 2.3 million.
A large part of the population works in rural areas, mainly in traditional
farming. Only 126,000 workers, or 6 percent of the working-age population,
are wage earners. Of these, about 33,000 are employed in public administra-
tion, while the remairning 93,000 work in public or para-statal enterprises,
mainly in mining or industry and in the primary sector. The modern sector
labor force generally has low professional qualifications except at the top
of the occupational ladder and in the mining industry. Organized training
of skilled workers for industry has been limited to a few big enterprises in
the mining and railway sectors. Most semi-skilled workers have acquired
some vocational skills through on-the-job training. Latest forecasts show
that an estimated 13,000 jobs will be created annually from 1976 to 1985



- 10 -
through new employment and replacement of existing labor. Demand will be
highest in construction and mining (41 percent of total requirements),
followed by public administration (29 percent), the services sector (17
percent) and primary sector activities (13 percent).
30.       In the area of industrial training, the supply of skilled workers
and technicians covers only about 50 percent of the expected annual demand:
approximately 200 industrial technicians graduate from the National School
of Arts and Trades each year, and the newly created secondary polytechnic
institutes are expected to produce about 550 skilled workers per annum.
Bank-assisted projects in highways, feeder roads, water supply and elec-
tricity, projected for the 1978-82 period, are expected to place considerable
demands on the already scarce manpower resources at the skilled worker level.
Government's Educational Objectives
31.       The Council of Education, which establishes long-range objectives and
formulates educational policy for implementation by the Ministry of Education,
has established the following key objectives for educational development:
(a) increase access to primary education, particularly for girls; (b) maintain
wide access to secondary education and improve and expand job-oriented prac-
tical training; (c) improve the quality of secondary and post-secondary
teaching; (d) increase the opportunities for basic education of adults; (e)
upgrade the planning and implementation capacity of the Ministry of Education;
and (f) increase the participation of regional and village authorities in
sharing the financial and management responsibilities for education.
Bank Group's Role in the Education Sector
32.       The Bank's knowledge of the detailed functioning of the Guinean
education system and the effectiveness of the Government's education policy
is still limited since a working relationship with Guinean education officials
has only recently been established. A distinct feature of the Guinean edu-
cation system is the strong link between the Ministry of Education and the
national political party. In the past, political authorities frequently
modified educational policies without always paying due consideration to
constraints in policy implementation.
33.       Under these conditions, the Bank Group's strategy is to lend for
investments to satisfy clearly identified and high-priority manpower needs
where project implementation does not unduly strain the country's adminis-
trative and management capabilities. In carrying out this strategy the Bank
Group follows two approaches: lending for project-related training, and
lending for the development of important and well-defined subsectors of the
education system. The Bank Group has begun to introduce training components
into ongoing highway and proposed water supply projects, and intends to follow
a similar practice for projects in the energy and agricultural sectors. Con-
sistent with the second approach, the project proposed in this report would
support the expansion and improvement of formal technical education. It is
expected that the implementation of the first education project, plus the



- 11 -
training components of othLer Bank-assisted projects, will provide the expe-
rience required to expand lending for education and training. For this pur-
pose, the proposed project includes provision of funds for project evaluation,
planning, and future project preparation. In particular, our strategy in the
education sector is likely to focus increasingly on training needs in the
rural sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.        Following the Government's request for Bank Group assistance in
the education sector, a project was identified in April 1976 during a sector/
economic mission. A follow-up mission in October 1976 reached agreement in
principle with the Govermnent on the composition of a project that could be
considered for IDA financing. In May 1977, a preparation/preappraisal mission
visited Guinea and the Government signed a request for PPF financing for de-
tailed project preparation. An IDA mission appraised the project in October
1977. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., from July 17 to 19, 1978;
the Guinean delegation was led by Mr. Mamadi Keita, Minister of Education and
Culture. A report entitled "Republic of Guinea-Staff Appraisal Report - First
Education Project," No. 2025a-GUI dated August 15, 1978, is being distributed
separately.
Project Objectives and Composition
35.        The project is designed to assist the Government in improving and
expanding training programs for industrial technicians and skilled workers,
with emphasis on institution building and quality improvements. New programs
to train and upgrade technical instructors would be an important project
feature.  Specifically, the project aims to:
(a) improve the quality and efficiency of the ten existing
secondary polytechnic institutes by (i) updating their
training programs, (ii) improving the qualifications of
their instructors, and (iii) establishing closer links
with employers;;
(b) expand the capacity for training skilled workers for
industry and public works by constructing two new
polytechnic institutes; and
(c) strengthen the Government's capacity for educational
planning and project implementation.
36.        The project wouald be implemented over the five-year period 1978-82
and would comprise:



- 12 -
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for (i) a 110-capacity
institute to train and upgrade instructors for secondary
polytechnic institutes; (ii) two polytechnic institutes,
with a combined capacity of about 400 students, to train and
upgrade skilled workers for industry and public works; and
(iii) accommodations for instructional staff;
(b)  equipment and materials for the planning office of the Ministry
of Education and for a project management unit; and
(c)  provision of 36 man-years of technical assistance and con-
sultant services and 30 man-years of fellowships for items
(a) and (b) above.
Institute for Instructor Training
37.       The proposed institute would provide (a) one-year pre-service courses
in teacher training and technical skill upgrading, and (b) in-service training
of technical and administrative personnel for the secondary polytechnic insti-
tutes. The institute facilities would include workshops for the production of
audio-visual materials and instructional aids, a library/documentation center
that would serve as a national resource center for all polytechnic institutes,
and a central store to control the distribution of materials and supplies to
all the institutes. The Credit would finance 26 man-years of technical assis-
tance to help establish the institute and develop its training programs, and
20 man-years of fellowships for technical upgrading and pedagogical training
of future Guinean instructors for the institute. The qualifications, expe-
rience, and terms and conditions of employment of the technical assistance
personnel would be acceptable to IDA (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The fellowship program would start not later than September
1979 and fellowships would be awarded to at least 10 qualified candidates by
June 30, 1979 and would be required to serve at least three years in the posi-
tions for which they were trained (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
38.       To ensure that the institute's training programs are adapted to the
needs of polytechnic institute instructors, an evaluation of these programs
would be financed and carried out by the Government following graduation of
the first group of trainees and not later than June 30, 1983, with the results
to be forwarded to IDA (Section 3.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Preparation of detailed terms of reference for the evaluation would be
financed by the Credit.
Secondary Polytechnic Institutes
39.       The two polytechnic institutes to be built and equipped under the
project would have a combined annual output of about 180 skilled workers in
nine industrial occupations. One institute, with an enrollment of about 120,
would be attached to the instructor training institute and would perform two
functions: (a) skilled upgrading and instruction in workshop techniques for



- 13 -
instructors undergoing training, and (b) regular full-time skilled worker
training in four industrial trades (general mechanics, auto mechanics, welding
and electricity). Provision would also be made for part-time and upgrading
courses for employed industrial workers. The second institute would specialize
in training for the public works sector by providing full-time courses in
construction trades such as masonry, carpentry, plumbing and metal working.
This institute would also have facilities to train diesel mechanics and heavy
equipment mechanics for the Ministry of Public Works. The curricula for the
two institutes would be based on a modular training system developed by ILO.
The Government would finance and carry out an evaluation of the modular
training program for skilled workers not later than June 30, 1983, about one
year following the first graduation (Section 3.05(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Preparation of detailed terms of reference for the evalua-
tion would be financed by the Credit.
Educational Planning
40.       The Project wouald provide (a) two man-years of technical assistance
to improve the organization and management of the planning office of the
Ministry of Education, (b) three man-years of consultant services to assist in
preparing future education and training projects, and (c) four man-years of
fellowships to train Guinean educators in educational planning and statistics.
The Credit would also finance equipment, furniture and a vehicle for the educa-
tional planning office. The technical assistance personnel and the consultants
would be acceptable to IDA (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). A training program for the fellowship holders would be prepared
and submitted to IDA by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.03 (b)(i) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement), and the fellowship holders would be required to
serve at least three years in the positions for which they were trained
(Section 3.03(b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Staff Housing
41.       Due to the extreme shortage of housing in the Conakry area, the
credit would finance the construction of 15 staff houses that would accom-
modate Guinean and expatriate instructional and professional staff for the
three project institutions.
Site Selection
42.       The three institutes would be built on adjacent parcels of a suitable
7-hectare building site,, located along the Conakry-Kindia highway in a devel-
oping industrial area about 20 km from Conakry. The staff housing would be
built on a small site adjacent to the institutes and bordering a proposed
residential area. An access road from the highway to the project site would be
built by the Government no later than December 31, 1978, when construction of
the institutes is scheduled to begin (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 14 -
Project Unit
43.       The Government has established a project unit within the Ministry
of Education to be responsible for project implementation and administration
(Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A full-time
Guinean project director has been appointed and is responsible to the Minister
of Education for overall project execution and for liaison with IDA. The
Guinean director of school construction has been named assistant project
director, with responsibility for construction supervision and equipment
procurement. The Government has furthermore agreed to staff the project
unit with the following additional experienced and competent personnel:  an
administrative officer, two accountants and two secretaries. Suitable office
space has been allocated for the project unit. Office equipment, furniture
and four vehicles would be financed by the Credit.
44.       As the project would be the first to be implemented by the Ministry
of Education, the Credit would help strengthen the project unit by financing
three technical assistance posts: a counterpart to the Guinean project
director (3 man-years), an architect-counterpart to the Guinean assistant
project director (2 man-years), and an equipment consultant (3 man-months).
Their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would
be acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The Credit would also finance six man-years of fellowships to train
Guinean staff in project management, equipment procurement and school con-
struction. A training program for the fellowship holders would be prepared
and submitted to IDA by June 30, 1980 (Section 3.03(b)(i) of the draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement) and the fellowship holders would be required to
serve at least three years in the positions for which they were trained
(Section 3.03(b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The net-of-tax cost of the project is estimated at US$8.9 million.
The foreign exchange cost, estimated at US$8.0 million and representing about
90 percent of the net-of-tax project cost, would be financed by the proposed
IDA credit of US$8.0 million. The foreign exchange costs are higher than
average because of (a) the shortage of locally produced building materials and
equipment, and (b) the relatively large component of technical assistance and
fellowships, the cost of which is almost entirely foreign expenditure. Local
currency expenditure, amounting to US$0.9 million, would be financed by the
Government. Taxes are not included in the project cost calculations because
the Government provides tax exemptions for development projects included in
the Economic and Social Development Plan.
46.       When the project institutions become fully operational in 1982,
the recurrent expenditures falling within the Government's education budget
would increase by about US$390,000 (in constant 1978 prices). About two-
thirds of this increase, or US$260,000, would be for staff salaries and re-
lated benefits and one-third, or US$130,000, for other operating costs such



- 15 -
as training materials. The budgetary increase would represent about 0.5
percent of the education budget in 1982, assuming the growth of recurrent
education expenditure is held at 9 percent per year. The Government has
agreed to make an adequate annual budgetary provision for the operation and
maintenance of all project-assisted institutions, including the allocation
of foreign exchange to purchase imported materials and supplies (Section
4.03(iv) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
47.       Detailed educ,ational specifications and architectural sketch designs
for the project institutions were prepared prior to project appraisal and were
financed by a PPF advance of US$70,000. IDA has approved an additional PPF
advance of US$150,000 to finance the preparation of detailed architectural
drawings and bidding documents. During negotiations, the bidding documents
and tendering procedures for civil works were reviewed and approved; arrange-
ments were also made for the preparation of bidding documents for furniture
and equipment. Construction of school buildings and installation of equip-
ment would be completed by September 1980. The first output of technical
instructors would be produced by 1981 and the first groups of skilled workers
would emerge from the polytechnic institutes in 1982. The entire project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1982, with a closing date of June 30,
1983, to allow for all accounts to be closed.
Procurement and Disbursement
48.       Civil works valued at US$3.1 million and furniture, equipment and
vehicles valued at US$1.4 million would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA's guidelines. Procurement
of educational equipment, consumable materials and other supplies would be
handled by the national import-export agency (IMPORTEX) responsible for all
Government procurement. Materials, equipment and vehicles that cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$50,000 each, and standardized equipment
which is not suitable for international competitive bidding, would be pro-
cured under local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA, or
through negotiated purchase on the basis of price quotations from reliable
suppliers. The aggregate value of such items is estimated not to exceed
US$0.2 million.
49.       Disbursements from the credit account would cover 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for civil works and professional fees (US$2.6 million),
technical assistance and fellowships (US$2.8 million), and furniture, equip-
ment and vehicles (US$1.6 million). The allocation for civil works and
professional fees includes US$220,000 to refund the PPF advance (Schedule 1
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Revolving Fund
50.       A revolving fund of US$50,000 in foreign exchange, financed by the
Credit, would be established with the Central Bank in Conakry and would be
used to plurchase small items such as office equipment and supplies and spare
parts for vehicles. IDA would replenish the account upon receipt of evidence
of disbursements from the fund for allowable expenditures. Should any dis-
bursements be made from the revolving fund that are not acceptable to IDA,
the Government would be responsible for replenishing the fund in the cor-
responding amount. In addition to this foreign exchange fund, the Government
would establish a revolving account in local currency equivalent to the amount
of US$250,000 to finance the local cost component of the civil works contracts
and the operating expenses of the project unit. This fund would be replenished
from the Government budget in accordance with a timetable and a replenishment
schedule agreed during negotiations. As a condition of Credit effectiveness,
the Government would be required to deposit the equivalent of US$250,000 in
local currency in the revolving account established with the National Credit
Bank in Conakry (Section 5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
51.       The project unit would set up an accounting system, in accordance
with accepted accounting practices, to record all project expenditures. All
accounts would be subject to regular Government auditing procedures. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that the accounts and the audit
report will be submitted to IDA not later than three months following the
close of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
52.       The following benefits are expected to result from the project:
(a) an increase in the supply of skilled workers for the industrial and
public works sectors; (b) creation of a supply of technical instructors for
the secondary polytechnic institutes; (c) improvement in the quality and
relevance of technical training programs for these institutes; and (d) estab-
lishment of a capacity for project planning and implementation within the
Ministry of Education.
53.       As this would be the first project financed by IDA in the education
sector, its scope and content have been made simple and project designs have
been taken to an advanced stage prior to Board presentation to minimize the
risk of implementation delays. Government officials have participated fully
in project preparation and we do not expect any major delays, although minor
holdups might occur because of some cumbersome administrative procedures.
There is a risk that the project institutions may not be operated efficiently
because of the difficulty in recruiting well-trained instructors and also
because these institutions will require significant allocations of foreign
exchange to purchase operating supplies and to maintain the workshop equipment.
These potential problems have been taken into account by providing for tech-
nical assistance and fellowships and by an assurance obtained from the Govern-
ment during negotiations that it will review budgetary and foreign exchange
allocations for the project institutions with IDA prior to the scheduled
opening of the institutions.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
in Article V Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special in-
terest are referred to in paragraphs 35 to 51 and in Section III, Annex III
of this report. As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Development
Credit Agreement, the Government would submit evidence that an amount in
local currency equivalent to US$250,000 has been deposited in a revolving
account established with the National Credit Bank in Conakry.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
August 29, 1978



-  18  -                                 ANEX I
Page I
TABLE 3A
GUINEA              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
GUINEA                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      246.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      71.7                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ZAIRE           KENYA          YUGOSLAVIA**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       70.0      90.0      227.0                90.0       140.0       830.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             3.7        4.8        4.75               21.6        11.2        20.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        15.0       20.0       19.0                9.0         19.0        80.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         53.0       67.0       66.0                67.0       113.0       139.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          47.4       47.3       44.6                46.8        49.0        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           30.4       26.4       22.9                23.2        17.0         9.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        216.0/a       ..         ..                  ..          ..        55.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        33.5       38.5       41.0               42.0        49.1        67.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5/a b  3.1          3.1                 2.8         3.4         1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2.6
TOTAL                                  3.1        2.8                            2.7         3.1         1.0
URBAN                                  9.0        8.1        4.25                3.6         6.3         4.6
URBAN POPULATION (S OF TOTAL)            9.6       15.9       19.5                21.6         9.9        3B.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.1       42.5       43.1               44.4         48.4        28.3
15 TO 64 YEARS                        55.1       54.7       54.0               52.8         48.0        64.3
65 YEARS AND OVER                      2.8        2.8        2.9                 2.8         3.6         7.4
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.8        0.9                 0.9         1.1         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1 /C     1.2/a      1.2/a               1.1/a       1.1/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                  ..        68.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                  ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          1400.0    1900.0      2100.0             9700.0      5100.0/b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          88.0       84.7        84.1               79.0        90.0/f*
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             ..          .         ..                  ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..        20.2/C      15.1
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ,.         ,.         ..                  ..        52.6/i      41.4
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..         3.9/        6.6
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                  ..       11.7/r       18.4
DI~TRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               ..         .1. ..                        .      .       .      15  /a
x OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..         ..         ..                  .8. ..                  4.9/
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..         ..  27890.0              30040.0       7830.0/d   1010.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3620.0         ..    3600.0/b            13230.0      1470.0/i   410.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           3270.0      980.0 /b   740.0 /7,d          320.0       770.0       170.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)          83.0/d    90.0        84.0                92.0       98.0        124.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               41.0/d1   44.0       42.7                33.0         71.0        92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..       29.0 /C       .               16./b       29.0        29.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             52.0         ..         ..                  ..         1.9         2.6
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRI'MARY SCHOOL                       30.0       33.0       28.0               90.0         64.0        94.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       2.0       13.0       14.0                9.0          9.0        45.0
YEARS OF SCHOCLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       12.0               13.0        13.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARY)                                  3.4         ,.                10.0        2.0         72.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                  7.0 e        .         ..                13.0        30.0        88.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..         ..         ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                         ..         ..         ..                89.0/C        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (C)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..
CONSUMPTION
RA1DI  RECEIVERS (PER THDU POP)         13.0       23.0       24.0                  ..          ..       163.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        2.0        2.0/d               3.0         9.0        35.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            32.0       99.0      113.0               141.0        68.0      1288.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  ..        ..         ..                  ..         0.5         4.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-    19-                                                      ANIEX I
Page 2
NOTES
'nless otberwise noted, data far 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971 and for Moet Recent Ettimte between
1973 and 1976
**  Yugoslavia hba  b-en aeleeted as  n objective country for Guinea since it is mare advamced in its development and has .ompareble socia-econolic elms.
GUINFA         1960    /a  1955;    /b  African population only;    /c  Rati  of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /d  1961-65
avenage;    /s  Prior to 1965.
1970    /s  Ratio of populetion under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Govenrment hospitals only;    /c  1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    Ia  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  Including midwivea sad assistant
oun.es;     /c  Sovananest hospital astablihbmeots only;    /d  1972.
ZAIRE          1970    /t  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Percentage of population without
cases. to safe water.
KENYA          1970    ta  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force ago 15-59 years;    /s  trban
only;    /d  REgiterred doctors and mdical officers;    /ea  Reigatered only.
YTGOSLAVIA    1970    7,  Agriculture land hbld by social sector "Koebinato";    /b  Agriculture land held by private small-holders;
R2, May 15, 1978
DEPFINITIONS OP SOCIAL ISDICATORS
Land Area  Ptbou k,,2                                                                         population per nucring person - Population divided by  -oober of practiciog
1otal - Total surface =rra  -ooprinieg land area and island waters,                             mle and fmle gradate nurses, "traied" or "ncrtified" nurses, and
Agric. - Most rnect estinate of agricaltural ares uaed tamporerily or prea-                    aaoiliary personnel with traIning or eaperiasne.
nently for crops, pastores, market & kitchen gardens or to lia fallow.                      Popultion per hospital bed - Popultion divided by nceber of hospital beds
available in poblic and private general and spenialised hospital and
GNP per capita (fS1) - GNP per capita esti.ates at csrroet market prices,                       rehabilitation  ent-ra ; exnludea sursing hore-  and ettablislsaenta for
calculated by sa-ne .cnvorsion -thod as World Bank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                     custodia1 and preventiv  care.
1960; 1970 a-d 1976 d-a.                                                                   Per ospit. supply of osionies (f  of re-uironeote) - computed frSo  esengy
eqo-valent of net food sapplies available in --ontry per capitt per day;
Population and vital statistics                                                                 aveilable supplies cosprise dnes tin production, icoports less enports, and
Pooplation (rid-year  illion) - As of July first:  if rot available, average                    changes in sto-k; set sopplies seclude animal feed, seeds, qo...tities oned
of two end-year eatimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                          in food processing and losses in distrIbution; reqairests were estimated
by PAO based on physiological.. neds for neensl ectivty and bealtb conid-
Population den.ity - per anuses ko  - Mid-year populatiao per sq-are kilometer                  erisg envirorsstal tsperatare, body weights, age and sex dietribotions of
(100 hbctarea) of trota  area                                                                population, and aiiaing 10% for waste at household level.
yapulation dens.ity- per qoare too of aorir. land - Compated as above for                     Per capita supply of protein (oraam, see day) - Protein contest of par capita
anicuttursl Land only.                                                                       net supply of food per day; set supply of food is defined as abt; requir-
m.ats for a11 countries establiehed by USDA Economic Roe.a.ch ServLcee
Vital statiatics                                                                                provide for a minimum alloes.ne of 60 gras of total protein per day, and
Crude birh rate per thousand, average - Annual live b:Lrthb  par thousend of                    20 grss of animal and pales protein, of vhich 10 graes should be animal
mid-year popoSatio-; tee-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                    protein; these standards are lower than tbase of 75 grams of total proteti
and ftie-year  -rgrage ending in 1975 for  oat tre.e.t estiate,                               and 23 Brams of animal protein as en average fur the  -1rEd, proposed by FAP
Crude death rate pert tbo-ad.roverae - Annasl deaths per thauaasd of mid-year                   in the Third World Food Survey.
pupolatoin; tcn-year aritioetin averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein  aupply from animSl and pulse - Protein supply nf food
ynar avcrage endiog in 1975 for moot recent estimte.                                          derived ftam snisala and pulses in grae per day.
Infant crt.ality rate (/thon) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate f/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thou.nd Ilve births.                                                                     years, to children in this ege groap; suggested as an indicator of
rcfr -aPc-canny at birth (fre) - Anerage nu ber of years of life  -ealsing at                   meaurition.
birth; usually five-ye-c averages ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975 for develop-
ine co..tries.                                                                             Education
trase repr-d-cti-s rate - verage nonber of live daughters a w.ao.  will bear                 Adlsned enrolls t ratio - primary school - Enrollment af a11 ages as per-
is her nosml reproductive period if she emperiennen present age-spenific                      centage of prinary school-age popalatios; innludes children aged 6-11 years
fentility rates; usally five-year averages ending is 1960, 1970 and 1975                     but adjusted for different lengths of primary edatntion; for co-ntries witb
for devaloping countries.                                                                    Iliwaersi adatia, eerol,1eet oy enterd 1007 sicre soon popils are below
population growth rate 5%) - total - compound annual growth rates of  Sid-year                  er above the official school  ge.
popolaitan for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adjuated e.rnllment ratio - se-ondry school - Computed as  bove; secondary
Population Prowth rate (7) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                         education requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
popalatico; different definitino- of urban areas may affect c.aparebility of                  provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data a-nu  countries.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence csr.ee are generally enluded.
Urban Pnpulutio- (% of total) - Ratio of arban to tot-l populatioa; different                 Years of schooling provided (first sod second levle) - Total yeara of
deflnitions of urbnt areaa may affect cemparablilty of data amnwg contrIes.                   schooling; at secondary level, v-ati.a..t instruction  a-y be partially or
nomplretly seoluded.
Akte *trocture (pernent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 Ymsrs),                 Voeatiosal *nrellnent ft of a.cmdary) - Voc-tional institutions inclade
and retired (65 years and over) as percesatges of mid-year pepulaton.                         ttahmicsl, industrial or other programs which operate independently or as
Ace dape-dec-y ra-tio - Ratio of popolaitto  under 15 aed 65 snd ovr to those                   deptrosentr  of aecadary inatitutians.
of agos 1  ih..ugh 64.                                                                    Adult literacy rate It) - Literate ado1ts (able to read and write) as per-
Eoucomic denoodency retia  - Ratio af populatio  under 15 sad 65 sad over to                    aentage of total adult popalation aged IS years md over
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years
Farily clasuico - sccretors  cumet  s1tive  thou) - Coulu-tive somber of ancepters            Houing
oi birch--ctr-I denices under easpicee of national family planning pregrea                  Person- per roam  (urb-n) - Average somber of persona per roes in accupied
since inception.                                                                              conventional dwellings in urban areas; dwellings eaclude non-permanent
F-jily plan_iR - -ser f% of maruied wamen) - Perce.taggs of married women of                    atructurns   d o -nnapied part.
cbild-be_riog ago (15-44 years) who asa birth-caotr,,l davi.es to a11 married              occuot d dwelliXns eithot piped water (X) - Occ.pied convenctlnsI  dwelltngs
woon In sase age group.                                                                       in urban end rural areas without Saide or aatsidn piped water facilities
as percen.tage of all onnapied dwellings.
Enplayaant                                                                                    Aen_s ta  lel tricity ft of all d1ell1sos) - Conventional dweJllngs with
botail ,abr forte (fi-asand) - Economically active persona, including armed                   seect riit  is living qoarter  as percent of total dwellings in urba  .an
forces and useaplaynd bat eaclading housewives,  -todents,  tI.; deftiniiona                  ra  erase.
Sc various countries are not comparable.                                                   Rra dwelings connted to eletriity (.) - tperd as sho   far  rual
Labor farce to agricolture (1) - Agricultural labor fomre (in faming, ferestry,                 dwel(lings oly.
huntlag and fishing) as percontage of total iahor fore..
Un_mplayed (/ of labor farce) - .  'e.tployed are assal' defined as persons who               Consonption
are ablr and willing to take a job  ai of anjab on a given day, remined ot                  Rdio reivrs (per thw pee) - ill types of recevrs for radio broadcasts
af a    ho, and seeking watk far a secified  inimom period set esceeding one                  to general public per theuond o f pepularon; esiades unlicensedreivs
week; muy not be co-parabli  between noantries due to different definitions                   in countries and in years when registratin af radif  sets was Sc effect;
of un"nplay -d and aurce of dat, e. g., moploYneo  utfics acaciscin-, sample                 data ftr recent years may not be caparable since most countries abolished
ouorvy, compulsory onmoployment insurance.                                                    licensing.
Income dicri_batton - Percentage of pri-ate income (bath in cash and kind)                      less t     egt  pron;eacludes ambulances, hearses    d miltretig
rec-iv-d by richeet 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, end poorest 40% of hwse-                    vehicles.
I:oidu.                                                                                     ElactrinSty (kwh/yr per cap) - AnnuaI nossomption of indastrial, cmsercial,
Publie and p ivt na1-tnriciry In bilosti boors per capita, generally
TAnitibutlun of  l-Per-ge  ofln owned by wealthiest 107                                         based on production data, without allowa11   e for losses in grids but ailow-
and p--t i0t of I-d    ers.                                                                   ing for imports and seports of electricity.
teaIth  nd rhtriti.                                                                         Newsprint (kh/yr per cap) - Per o-pita annusl c-naooaption in kilagrama
qoal ib and outritian                                                   es~~~~~~~~timated from  domestic prodaction plus net importsat newsprint.
Pupulatlon yer physician - Population divided by number of practicing
phycitfa.u qualified fram a medical school at university levl.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODJCT IN 1977                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1975-76            1976-77   1977-85 PROJECTED
GNP at Market Prices           1,076.0       100.0                          2.3               5.6            9.0
Gross Domestic Investment         31.5         2.9                        -61.0               4.8           23.4
Gross National Saving             29.1         2.7                        -52.4              51.6           23.4
Current Account Balance           -7.3         o.6
Exports of Goods, NFS            311.9        29.0                          5.1               8.2           14.4
Imports of Goods, NFS            264.3        24.6                          1.5               0.0           17.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTImVTY IN 1977
Value Added
US$ Mln.    _
Agriculture                      521       46
Industry and Mining             252        23
Services                         128       12
Unallocated                      210       19
GDP AT FACTOR COST             1,111      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
------- (Sylis Billion)--                         - ----       % of GDP ------
-    1976                  1977                   1           1976        1977
Current Receipts                     3.87          798           7.27                  19.0         38.9       30.5
Current Expenditure                  2.78          6.51          3.58                  13.6         31.7       15.0
Current Surplus                                                     9 T7                             7.2       15.5
Capital Expenditures                 1.42           .56           .63                    7.0         2.7        2.6
External Assistance (net)              .76           .37          .28                    3.7          1.8       1.6
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1975          1976         1977
(billion Sylis outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                        9.87          8.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                10.80         14.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                1.10          1.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           48.4          42.0
General Price Index                        100.0          98.4          108.1
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                                       -1.6           +9.9
Bank credit to Public Sector 2/                           32.7
Bank credit to Private Sector                0             0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/     In 1975 and 1976 the Government realized a sizeable budget surplus in Sylis which
was returned to the Central Bank for sterilization.
2/     The sharp increase in credit to the public sector was caused by the transfer
of Government claims on the public sector to the banking system.
not availabLe
nnt anoLicabLe



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
TI  REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
'MADE PA4ISNTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1975     1976     1977                                                US $Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS        229.6    254.2    311.9                             Bauxite             177.4       67.2
Imports of Goods, NFS        200.3    2!42.1    264.3                            Alumina              77.1       29.1
Resource Gap (deficit - -)   29.3       12.1      7
Interest Payments (net)       26.6      21.1      4.9
Workers' Remittances
Other Factor Payments (net)   38.0      38.0     50.0
Net Transfers               J                                        All other commodities             9 9        3.7
Balance on Current Account    35.3    -47.       -7.3                     Total                      264.4      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                                          EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 197?
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements              73.3      18.6     30.3                                                        uS $ Mln
Amortization              ?25.5      20.5     23.0
Subtotal                   47.4    -49.o       7.3                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             871.5
Capital Grants                 3.3                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 0
Other Capital (net)           13.6      33.5       .                 Total outstanding & Disbursed             97-.
Other items n.e.i            -2s4         .        .                                          1/
Increase in Reserves (+)      -3.6    -15.5       0                DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977-
97.
Gross Reserves (end year)
Net Reserves   (end year)
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                      7.5       7.6      8.1
of which: Petroleum
Exports
of which: Petroleum          .BD/IDA LENDING, (end 1977                                    (Million US 
RATE OF EXCHANGE  2/                                                                                IBRO       IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed            66.1.      1.2
Undisbursed                         a        19 8
SS i 1.00 - 20                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed      66.1      21.0
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services. This figure
represents the ratio of the debt service actually paid to exports.
2/  The Syli is pegged to the SDR at GS 24.7, i.e. 20.5 Syli = US$1 (end-77).  An
average accounting rate of US$1 x 20 Syli is used in this report
,  not available
. not applicable
June   , 1978



- 22 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of July 31, 1978)
Loan or                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Credit Number  Year      Borrower        Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Two loans have been fully disbursed                        73.5
569-GUI      1975      Republic of    Pineapple                 7.0      3.9
Guinea         Development
596-GUI      1976      Republic of    First Highway            14.0      4.7
Guinea
TOTAL                                           73.5  21.0
of which has been repaid                     11.1   0.0
TOTAL now outstanding                           62.4  21.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                0.0   8.6       8.6
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
Guinea is not a member of IFC.
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 569-GUI   Pineapple Development Project:  US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
Due to the poor performance of the contractor, irrigation works have been
delayed but this has not affected the progress of planting or production tar-
gets. Exportation of fresh pineapples by plane to Paris started on schedule
in November 1977. Marketing performance has been weak resulting in complaints
from importers about quality, but corrective measures are being taken for the
next campaign. The smallholders program is progressing satisfactorily with
growing interest of participants, and a second project oriented toward small-
holders is now under preparation.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
Cr. 596-GUI   First Highway Project; US$14.0 million Credit of December 24,
1975; Effectiveness Date: March 19, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Progress on the First Highway Project, a road rehabilitation and
maintenance program covering 2,500 km of high-priority roads, is satisfactory
although execution was delayed by one year due to slow tendering and bidding.
Training of mechanics and equipment operators is now progressing well and the
new management measures introduced by the Ministry of Public Works with the
help of consultants are eEfectively controlling the project's financial,
equipment and human resources. Preparation of a second phase rehabilitation
program is proceeding smoothly, with good collaboration between Government
staff and their expatriate advisors.



- 24 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification mission: April 1976
(b)  Project Preparation Agency:  Government
(c) Follow-up Identification Mission: October 1976
(d) Preappraisal/preparation Mission: May 1977
(e) Appraisal Mission: October 1977
(f) Negotiations: July 1978
(g) Planned Effectiveness: December 1978
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) An evaluation of the technical teacher training programs at
the institute for instructor training will be financed and
carried out by Government not later than June 30, 1983, and
the results forwarded to IDA (para. 38);
(b) An evaluation of the modular training programs for skilled
workers at the polytechnic institutes will be financed and
carried out by Government not later than June 30, 1983
(para. 39).
(c) Ten fellowship candidates, suitably qualified to become
teacher trainers for the instructor training institute, will
be recruited not later than June 30, 1979, and will be required
to serve at least three years in the positions for which they
were trained (para. 37);
(d) Adequate annual budgetary provision will be made for the oper-
ation and maintenance of all project-assisted institutions,
including the allocation of foreign exchange to purchase
imported materials and supplies (para. 46);



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) The following experienced and competent personnel will be
provided to staff the project unit: (i) a project director,
(ii) an assistant project director-construction supervisor,
(iii) two accountants, (iv) an administrative officer, and
(v) two secret:aries (para. 43);
(f) The qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions
of employment of technical assistance personnel financed
under the project are acceptable to IDA (paras. 37, 40, 44);
(g) The fellowships for the educational planning office and for the
project unit will be awarded to suitably qualified persons for
training programs that will be prepared and submitted to IDA for
approval by June 30, 1980, and the fellowship holders will be
required to serve at least three years in the positions for
which they were trained (paras. 40, 44);
(h)  An access road will be constructed from the Conakry-Kindia
highway to the construction site for the three institutes
not later than December 31, 1978 (para. 42);
(i) The project accounts and an audit report will be submitted
to IDA no later than three months following the close of each
fiscal year (para. 51); and
(j) As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Government would
submit evidence that an amount in local currency equivalent
to US$250,000 has been deposited in a revolving account
established with the National Credit Bank in Conakry (para.
50).






IBRD 13575R
G   e   .'   e   <<  e  rhereO n t1 L> A A @@*_= 'A W v A.:- ~~~TO U, U\
FW~~ F-                                                   (  ,          :                                                                                                                                                                                          "   
06  N B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g6I~r
60<                   t~1 I'}tt GAQyAk    -r                                                                                       t                                         Mv                                        3-  T1
0660FTsWOD  /                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2)>/~
~~~12ANT'C COEAN ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       C met 
ibQndbrycib                                                                     DoQyR cb                 Ti Vl nUW 'jabD '    zLCUifi\     
00060 flOor constructIon ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Il
PA,)20    .  qr40  0O
0 SertrIEEOS                                               0yPoEvtt ,rmnOOW     OrrOCsNArKrlr                                        es-Br d '
*UtdPrjt   .e: .!j u,   ,EjL['Ai32j;U                                                                                                                                                                                       ;s  A  0000 U ;  j0  )    J  :    0,   I
EXISTING i;  PO                                                                           . SCHO OLS                                                                                           -
fIhA rjcSil8 h s. -d  I-i H t -AF-t' h   FiC-  r   INou
Udhn  Dwelopn  ent   PolbS   .  A.  j;;  * h S . n K g 43N as E ;ff + | .f. ' ' ' e * 44 4~~~~~~~Kercu
O Uin ng Pro-Tl-CS9fl uf''. i0 f 1;eeO    ; - A 1;l 4' T-1h,,
;  FihinqPor                        lbfRdU m<  M. W    o W' yuAL2 Z9s i!2&* E    .4A.l'-.r[   L '* '0    iU'  oi.L':_SitjL''C! j  i RrB 5z   t_      r    i i   t               /          i\                    f     r bO.  vvid,ri 
-6  ropOFe:  In ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. Dao  CPdro   ,, 
01   20    s;r   so   +   , i                                                                                                                                          u          2               ,                  t :- !~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e 
-IE Et - - -  ;   -: .d:, -endr - t-                                              RS    -,



