Document of                               r1t;@
The World Bank                                   .
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3562-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN9
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$107.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
April 25, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



9                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1          = Rp 970
RplOO         = US$0.103
Rp 1,000      = US$1.03
Rp 1 million  = US$1,030.93
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DGHE     -  Directorate General for Higher Education
GOI      -  Government of Indonesia
MEC      -  Ministry of Education and Culture
PEDC     -  Polytechnic Education Development Center
PIU      -  Project Implementation Unit
PMS      -  Polyteknik Mekanik Swiss
REPELITA -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I,
1969-74, Repelita II, 1974-79, Repelita III, 1979-84)
SMA      -  Senior Secondary General School
SMEA     -  Senior Secondary Commerce School
SMEP     -  Junior Secondary Commerce School
ST       -  Junior Secondary Technical School
STM      -  Senior Secondary Technical School
TEDC     -  Technician Education Development Center
ACADEMIC YEAR
September to July



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $107.4 million equivalent (including capitalized front-end
fee)
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description: The objective of the project is to increase the supply of
middle level manpower. The project would: (a) expand poly-
technic enrollments and output by constructing and equipping
extensions to the seven existing polytechnics and eleven new
polytechnics; (b) increase the supply of technical teachers
and develop courses and teaching material in new specialist
subjects through constructing, equipping and supplying
technical assistance for a Polytechnic Education Development
Center; and (c) strengthen the management capability of the
Ministry of Education and Culture.
The principal benefit would be the increased supply of techni-
cal and other middle level manpower for the manufacturing,
transportation, telecommunications, construction and energy
sectors, and for commerce.
The principal risk for the polytechnics is that trained
technical teachers would be lost to industry. This risk
would be reduced by the system of bonding and by the
incentive of loans for house purchase. There would also be a
permanent capacity for training technical teachers to provide
replacements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:/l                        Local      Foreign      Total
--------- $ million -------
Polytechnics                              35.1         72.4         107.5
Polytechnic education                      1.4           6.7          8.1
development center
Plannning and management support           1.9          3.2           5.1
Base Cost                           38.4          82.3        120.7
Physical contingencies                     3.8           7.3         11.1
Price contingencies                       16.2         17.5          33.7
Project Cost                           58.4        107.1        165.5
Front-end fee on Bank loan                   -            .27          .27
Total Financing Required               58.4        107.4        165.8
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                         -        107.4        107.4
Government                                58.4            -          58.4
Total                                  58.4        107.4        165.8
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY             1984      1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
----------------  $million -----------------
Annual                    2.0       4.0    21.0    29.0    31.0    20.4
Cumulative                2.0       6.0    27.0    56.0    87.0   107.4
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4308-IND dated April 25, 1983
/1 Indirect taxes and duties estimated to be about $5.9 million or 3.6% of
total project cost. Imported equipment and material would be exempt
from duty.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SECOND POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
1.        T -ubmit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for tte equivalent of $107.4 million
(including the capitalized front-end fee) to help finance a Second
Polytechnic Project.  The loan would have( a term of 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a
country economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The
latest of these, titled "Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human
Development in the Eighties" (No. 3795-IND dated May 3, 1982) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on May 6, 1982. Annex I gives selected
social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread
across an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about
two million sq km. It now has a population of over 150 million, growing at
about 2.3% p.a., and is the world½s fifth most populous nation. The country
has a highly diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy
resources, significant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a
developed system of agricultural commodity production and export. A high
proportion of these primary resources are located on the sparsely populated
islands of Sumatra and Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live
on Java which has areas with some of the highest rural population densities
in the world. About 20% of the population live in urban areas in both Java
and the Outer Islands, and the current rate of urban population growth is
over 4% p.a. The 1981 estimate of GNP per capita is $520, which places
*        Indonesia for the first time amongst middle income countries./2
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the East Java
Water Supply Project (No. P-3517-IND), circulated under cover of
R83-100, dated April 13, 1983, and submitted for consideration by the
Executive Directors on May 3, 1983.
/2 On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for
over a decade. This was associated with rapid increases in public
expenditures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this
occurred in the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-60s. The
Government took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However for the last decade
the dominant external influence has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the
oil and gas sector rose from $0.6 billion in 1973/74 to $10.8 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of $2.5 billion. Oil
receipts also provide about 70% of Central Government receipts and have
helped finance the sustained increase in demand via the budget. The pattern
of expenditures has also helped foster diversified growth: of particular
note has been the support for agriculture, through investment in infrastruc-
ture, support services and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer
incentives. This bore fruit in two successive record rice harvests in 1980
and 1981. During 1971 to 1980 manufacturing has also enjoyed a high growth
rate (of about 14% p.a.) from a very low base, but here sectoral growth has
been in spite of a more restrictive policy environment and distorted
incentives.
5.        Since 1981 the macroeconomic resource position has changed dra-
matically. Depressed international markets and a weak oil price have led to
a turnaround in the current account of about $9 billion in two years, with a
deficit of the order of $7 billion likely for 1982/83. Following the reduc-
tion in the OPEC market price from $34 to $29 in early 1983, resource
prospects worsened further. Faced with mounting pressure on the currency,
on March 30, 1983, the GOI devalued the rupiah by 28% from Rp 703 to Rp 970
to the US dollar. This was an important step in the short run adjustment
process, but barring a major recovery in oil prices, other adjustments will
be necessary, in particular in the rephasing of import-intensive public
expenditures. These measures will lead to a reduction in the growth rate.
At a more fundamental level the change in external prospects have emphasized
the need for substantial structural change in the eighties. The development
of a strong and diversified nonoil production and export base is essential
to the restoration of reasonable growth.
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
6.        Despite the high concentration of the resource windfalls, the
available evidence, from household expenditures surveys, indicates a fairly
wide distribution of the benefits of growth and a reduction in poverty
incidence over the past ten years. This is also borne out in the basic
health indicators, with a 25% reduction in the infant mortality rate and an



- 3 -
increase in life expectancy from 47 to 53./l These impr3vements should not,
however, mask the continued existence of widespread poverty. Almost 50% of
the population are estimated to have been in this condition in 1978. The
core of the poverty problem continues to be in rural Java, where landless
laborers form a large, and possibly rising, fraction of the population, and
where, for most of the 1970s, there is little evidence of any rise in real
agricultural wages. However, in the last two years of good rice harvests it
is likely that significant improvements occurred on Java, while agricultural
incomes on parts of the Other Islands dependent on export crops have
declined in the face of the international recession. Following the devalua-
tion this situation will likely reverse. Export incomes should rise, backed
by the international recovery, but real incomes in Java could be adversely
affected.
7.        In the future the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of the distribution of income. The labor force will grow at
about 3% p.a., equivalent to around 2 million people p.a., in the next
decade. In 1980 agriculture still accounted for 55% of employment, and
industry only 13%; the growth of services employment, from 24% of the total
in 1971 to 32% in 1980, was the main mechanism for providing incremental
employment in the 1970s. The growth in service incomes was partly sustained
by rising oil incomes in the 1970s; if services are to continue to be a
major source of labor income there is again a strong case for diversifying
the pattern of productive growth. The key issue is one of widespread
underemployment in the traditional sectors. To tackle this a sustained rise
in labor demand is crucial - through the maintenance of overall growth and
the encouragement of labor-intensive processes in both the traditional and
the industrial sectors.
8.        In the 1970s there was substantial progress in extending the pro-
vision of social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment
in primary education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in
junior secondary schools is now 35%. However, the weak educational base of
the population continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic develop-
ment and a substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education
will be necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the
whole system. The situation is similar in the health sector. There has
been a large expansion in facilities, notably at the sub-district level, but
continued expansion and an improvement in quality will be necessary to
increase effectiveness. This will have to be complemented by a major expan-
sion in water supply and sanitation if the improvement in indices of mor-
tality and morbidity in the 1970s is to be maintained. Currently only 18%
of the rural and 40% of the urban population have access to safe water /2
compared with Government targets of 60% and 75%, respectively, for 1990.
/1 On the basis of the 1971 and 1980 population censuses.
/2 Government estimates for 1981.



-4-
Policy for Structural Chango
9.         Indonesia-s past growth performance has been good, but the country
is now faced with the need both to put the nonoil economy on to a viable
long-run growth path and to effectively improve the basic needs situation of
the poor. mne re-emergence of a significant foreign exchange constraint has
reduced the capacity of the economy to carry a high level of investment.
Policies that promote appropriate investment choices in the public and
private sector will be critical if the structural adjustment process is to
be sustained.
10.       In industry, the Government of Indonesia (GOI) is planning a
program of large-scale natural resource-based investments, in refineries,
LNG, petrochemicals, fertilizer, cement, pulp and paper, basic metals and
mining. This would broaden the industrial base, but will have very limited
employment implications and is very foreign-exchange intensive in the
construction phase. Of greater importance for both employment and exports
is the encouragement of agriculture and the small- and medium-scale private
manufacturing through an improvement in the economic environment. The 28%
devaluation of March 30, 1983, substantially improved incentives for
production of tradeable goods. Furthermore, the GOI has initiated a general
review of the trade regime, with a view to removing the distortions caused
by the wide variations in rates of effective protection. It has also
embarked on a program designed to promote the expansion of nonoil exports,
including export financing arrangements, export insurance, improved ports
procedures, export processing zones and a system of export certificates
(duty rebates). However, the private sector suffers from significant
domestic constraints to its expansion, including a heavy regulatory burden,
especially in the area of investment licensing, and a distorted and poorly
developed financial system. Further policy reforms to alleviate these
constraints are needed to create an environment conducive to private
investment.
11.       The energy sector is at the core of the structural adjustment
problem. Oil and gas now account for 98% of domestic consumption of commer-
cial energy and demand has been growing rapidly. If Indonesia is to avoid a
serious reduction in foreign exchange earnings from the oil sector in the
1990s, it is essential to diversify energy usage and improve the efficiency
of energy consumption. This will require both price and investment
measures. In January 1983 domestic oil prices were increased by about 60%,
and this followed a similar increase in January 1982. This was a decisive
step that substantially reduced the differential between domestic prices and
the average opportunity cost; however, relative prices between products
diverge widely from those prevailing on the international market. In
addition a major program of investment is planned, with public and private
participation, in coal exploration and development, exploitation of hydro
and geothermal resources, and a sixfold increase in electric power
generation in the coming decade.



- 5 -
12.       Agriculture will continue to be of great importance for export
revenue (accounting for almost 75% of 1980 nonoil exports), food production
and employment. Rice production has been steadily rising to an estimated
total in 1982 of 23.2 million tons, compared with 13 million a decade
earlier. This achievement is largely a result of the provision of new, and
the rehabilitation of existing, irrigation systems, and the dissemination of
new agricultural technology particularly with respect to the timely delivery
of seeds and fertilizers. Future investment in physical infrastructure,
especially in irrigation and rural roads, combined with a favorable market
environment and good support services will be the main determinants of
further expansion in food production. In the past tree crops have suffered
from relative neglect, and the age structure of the trees is now very old,
but GOI has a highly ambitious program of rehabilitation and replanting,
necessitating substantial investment in manpower and improved organization
of distribution and marketing. Transmigration remains a high priority
program for promoting development in underpopulated regions, providing
opportunities for landless families on Java, Bali, and Lombok, and relieving
economic and environmental pressures on those densely populated islands.
Financing Development - Domestic Resources and External Capital Flows
13.       With a relative decline in oil incomes, alternative sources of
domestic savings will have to be found. This will require a major increase
in resource mobilization through the public sector over the medium term,
through a combination of reduced subsidies on petroleum products and
increased nonoil taxes. In 1981 it is estimated that taxes on the domestic
economy were only 6% of GDP, if the domestic oil subsidy is netted out,
compared with well over 10% for comparable countries. The 1982/83 and
1983/84 budgets represented a significant effort to improve the situation,
with major reductions in the oil subsidy and increases in nonoil taxes, but
this will have to be sustained in following years. In addition to public
resource mobilization it is becoming increasingly important to encourage the
growth and improve the efficiency of distribution of financialized savings,
through an improved financial regime and the development of a domestic
capital market.
14.       Even with effective measures to mobilize domestic resources there
will be a substantial need for foreign savings in the 1980s, especially in
the short-run adjustment to loss in oil income. The most important compo-
nent of this will be in the form of medium- and long-term debt flows. Total
disbursed and outstanding external public debt was almost $20 billion at the
end of 1982 and undisbursed debt amounted to an additional $12 billion. The
Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia remains a principal source of external
capital, including Official Development Assistance, to the country. During
the 1970s, however, Indonesia experienced an unusually rapid transformation
in its public debt structure from a situation of heavy reliance on official
concessional loans to increasing use of private, nonconcessional and
variable interest loans in the second half of the decade. In 1982 private



- 6 -
source debt accounted for 52% of new commitments of public debt.  The fact
that Indonesia remains highly creditworthy at the beginning of the 1980s,
and the efficiency with which GOI has managed debt, are clear indicators of
how far the country has progressed.  However, the debt servicing capacity
depends on commodity production rather than a broad industrial base, and
this makes Indonesia somewhat more vulnerable to developments in interna-
tional markets.  The implication is that debt utilization should remain very
prudent, and that there will be a continued justification for official debt
of long maturities in the 1980s. With the sharp decline in oil export
receipts the debt service ratio will rise in the short term, but present
projections indicate that the overall debt position will remain manageable.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
15.        As of March 31, 1983, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 76 Bank loans amounting to $5,295.6 million.
TFC investments totalled $136.8 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia-s total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1980
was 10.7%, and the share of debt service, 7.1%. By the end of 1981, these
ratios increased to 11.2% and 7.4%1, respectively. Annex II contains a
summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28,
1983, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Given the
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employ-
ment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group supported
projects have been in this sector.  In addition, loans and credits have been
extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including transpor-
tation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
nutrition, industrial development financing (including small-scale indus-
try), power, telecommunications, population and technical assistance.
16.        During Repelitas I and II, and in line with the objectives of
these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was
directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expansion of
infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also given
to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed for
preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III, published in
early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and stability, but
departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on more equitable
income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which was fully in
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President-s Report on the East Java
Water Supply Project (No. P-3517-IND), circulated under cover of R83-100,
dated April 13, 1983 and submitted for consideration by the Executive
Directors on May 3, 1983.



- 7 -
line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required greater
attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial sector)
and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given
to these priorities.
17.       Because the country has moved from a position of resource surplus
to deficit, as discussed in Part I, the development momentum will in all
likelihood decelerate in the short run. To minimize this adverse impact
will require effective policy reform to improve the environment for private
investment and to mobilize additional domestic resources so that investments
in industry, infrastructure, tree crop development and human resources
development can continue. The Bank's program of lending and economic work
is being geared to support the required measures. The primary emphasis of
Bank involvement will be on policy and institutional development and tech-
nical assistance in the key sectors. This will involve a close integration
between sector work and lending and the gradual broadening of lending to the
subsector and sector level in order to assist with policy issues at this
level. The only significant shift in the composition of lending involves a
rapid expansion planned in the education sector, a direct response to the
severe shortage of skilled manpower. In the industrial sector, in-depth
sector work is focused on a policy to promote industrialization which will
build on Indonesia's comparative advantage in labor and resource intensive
industries. This analysis may lead to a series of industrial projects which
would facilitate sectoral reform. In energy, sector work and continued
lending is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy base,
rationalize pricing and improve sectoral planning. Irrigation and tree
crops will continue to absorb a substantial portion of lending in view of
the importance of these sectors, and continued support for transport is
anticipated. Continued lending in the areas of provision of social
services, in population, health and nutrition, urban development and water
supply will increasingly emphasize institutional support and the development
of innovative low-cost solutions.
18.       The last two years have seen major improvements in the disburse-
ment ratio /1 from a low of 13% in FY80, compared to a Bank-wide average of
21.31%, in Thailand of 21.2% and in Nigeria of 17.31% in that year, to 18%
in FY82. The poor FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid
increase in commitments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA
commitments to Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank wide increase
of 83%. However, it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out
of GOI's budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance
of tender documents and opening of letters of credit. The severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A
/1 The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



-8-
number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in Jakarta
in September 1979 and November 1981. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, GOI has taken measures to streamline some of the complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.  In
addition, the Bank is helping the GOI in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remedial actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting
industry have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation
problems in Indonesia. Finally, to reduce initial project implementation
difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board considera-
tion at a later stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts,
improvements are taking place. This was reflected in an increase in
disbursements from $204.0 million in FY79 to $501.3 million in FY82, and
$301.2 million for the first six months of FY83. It is nevertheless
important that the Bank and GOI maintain their efforts.
19.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through
IDA. Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commod-
ity and oil price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent
lending has been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending
being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia-s much improved credit-
worthiness, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
20.       The proposed project constitutes the eleventh lending operation
presented to the Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects under
advanced stage of preparation and appraisal include the Third Agricultural
Training, the Second Nonformal Education, and the Thirteenth Power Projects.
PART III - TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
21.       Overview.  One of the main obstacles to Indonesia's development is
the shortage of skilled and trained manpower. The rapid growth of the
industrial, infrastructure and services sectors over the last decade out-
stripped the capacity of the technical education and vocational training
system to supply the quality and quantity of manpower required. Anticipated
growth, particularly in the manufacturing and infrastructure sectors will
only be achieved if there are further increases in the supply of trained
manpower. The GOI is attempting to meet these needs by expanding and
improving the education and training system; i.e. expanding universities to
provide the professional-level staff, polytechnics to provide technicians,



- 9 -
and vocational secondary schools and training institutes to provide
semi-skilled and skilled manpower. The proposed project addresses the
problem of the supply of technicians and other middle-level manpower.
Manpower Demand
22.       Projections based on data from the 1980 population census, past
trends and international comparative data indicate that over the period
1980-90, employment in the nonagriculture sectors will rise from 19 million
to 38 million. Of the additional 19 million to be employed outside agricul-
ture during 1980-90, it is estimated that about 371,000 should be qualified
technicians - a category of manpower vital for development. Two-thirds of
the technicians would be required in engineering specializations and one-
third in commercial fields, particularly for the manufacturing, construc-
tion, trade, government and services sectors.
Technical Education and Training
23.       Since the early 1970s the GOI has sought to strengthen the
capacity of the formal system to produce the skilled manpower needed for the
growing economy. Substantial progress has been made at the secondary level,
where the output from vocational schools nearly doubled during 1970-80.
However, progress has been slow at the diploma level, the major source of
supply for technician or middle-level manpower. The creation of a system of
technician training institutions within the formal educational system began
only in 1976 with the establishment of the Swiss-assisted Polyteknik Mekanik
followed, in 1982, by the opening of six polytechnics established under the
Polytechnic I Project (Cr. 869-IND). Diploma courses are also offered in
public and private universities and in a large number of other private
institutions. Current enrollments in all diploma-level technical and
commercial courses are estimated as about 40,000 which is only 9% of total
tertiary enrollment. Tertiary enrollment is itself only 3% of the relevant
age group, and among the lowest in countries in the East Asia Region. The
estimated output from all existing diploma level engineering and commerce
courses in both public and private institutions during 1980-90 would be only
about 50,000 of the 371,000 technicians required.
24.       Administration.  The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC)
has direct responsibility for general and vocational education and also
power to regulate education and training programs of other government and
nongovernment institutions. Within the NEC the Directorate General for
Higher Education (DGHE) is responsible for all tertiary level public
education including the diploma programs in engineering and commerce.
Issues in Technician Education
25.       The major shortcomings in the existing system of technician educa-
tion are:



- 10 -
(a) inadequate classroom and laboratory accommodation and equipment;
(b) shortages of technical teachers;
(c) a narrow range of curricula;
(d) lack of good teaching materials;
(e) low internal efficiency; and
(f)  absence of a well-defined planning and management system.
26.       The lack of classroom and laboratory accommodation and the
shortage of technical teachers are the critical constraints to the rapid
expansion of technician level education. Indonesia did not have facilities
for training teachers for technician courses until the opening in 1981 of
the Technician Education Development Center (TEDC), financed under the
Polytechic I Project. In implementing the first project, the government had
to rely on graduates from secondary technical schools as the source of staff
for the new polytechnics and to provide them with three years training.
From 1985 the main source would be the output from the polytechnics who
would require only one year of training.
27.       Many of the existing university diploma courses employ degree
course syllabi and materials and much of the content is not relevant to the
level and employment needs of technicians. With the establishment of the
TEDC, well designed courses and relevant teaching material have been prepared
for the polytechics - but only in the basic engineering fields. Technicians
are needed in a wide range of other subsectors for which training courses
need to be developed.
28.       The success rate of most of the existing public and private
technician level courses is very low due to lack of motivation of students,
poor facilities, low quality of teaching and high costs of private courses.
In 1985, the new polytechnics established under the Polytechnic I Project will
have their first output: it is expected that the effects of good facilities
and teaching, well designed courses and materials and a strong discipline
will result in a high success rate.
29.       Responsibility for physical planning, development and staffing of
the first six polytechnics has rested with the MEC-s Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) set up under the Polytechnic I Project. As these first poly-
technics become fully operational and as more are built, the MEC, as
presently designed, will face problems in managing the expanded polytechnic
subsystem within the higher education system.



- 11 -
Technician Manpower Subsector Investment Strategy
30.       Government Strategy.  The GOI aims to increase the supply of
middle-level manpower by creating a nationwide system of polytechnics. In
the first phase of this program, the six polytechnics financed under the
Polytechnic I Project opened as planned in September 1982. The opportunity
for technician training attracted a large number of qualified applicants and
the new courses have been successfully introduced. The project now proposed
would launch a second phase, designed to (a) expand the capacity for training
technical teachers and (b) to further expand and strengthen polytechnic
facilities and broaden the range of specialist technician courses.
31.       Bank Lending Strategy.  To date the Bank Group has financed 12
education projects in Indonesia. Investments have pursued the main objec-
tives of meeting critical manpower requirements, improving quality, and
increasing equity. Five projects address quantitative expansion and quali-
tative improvement of basic education: the Nonformal Education Project
(Ln. 1486-IND); the First and Second Textbook Projects (Cr. 387-IND and
Ln. 2102-IND) and the First and Second Teacher Training Projects (Ln. 1433-IND
and Ln. 2101-IND). Six projects have focussed on expanding and strengthening
vocational and technical education: the First Education Project (Cr. 219-IND)
and the Fourth Education Project (Ln. 1237-IND) provided assistance to
vocational education while the First and Second Agricultural Training Projects
(Cr. 288-IND and Ln. 1692-IND), the First Polytechnic Project (Cr. 869-IND)
and University Development I (Ln. 1904-IND) financed agricultural training,
technician training, and university degree training in science and
engineering. The First Public Works Manpower Development Project (Ln.
2258-IND) is financing training to upgrade manpower in the Public Works
Sector. OED Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been prepared for
two completed projects and the lessons of experience have been incorporated
in the design of the proposed project. The PPAR for the Technical Education
Project (Credit 219-IND) (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, SecM80-440) stressed
the importance of including fellowships for development of teachers and
school administrators, and appointing key staff for project implementation
in a timely manner. The PPAR on the First Agricultural Training Project
(Credit 288-IND) (No. 3058, dated June 30, 1980, SecM80-527), stressed the
importance of advanced preparation and the need for carefully designed and
suitable technical assistance components. The Bank is responding to
long-term needs by support for repeater projects, e.g., in agricultural
training, teacher training, textbooks, and, with the present project, the
development of polytechnics. The Bank is also assisting the GOI to overcome
manpower constraints in specific sectors through a series of training
projects, including the Public Works Manpower Development Project, and
project-related training in a variety of sectors e.g. power and health. The
future Bank lending program includes a proposed industrial training project
which would complement the polytechnic project. Other assistance to
technical education by the Asian Development Bank, Australia, Japan and the
Netherlands has been directed primarily to strengthening technical and
commercial vocational schools.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
32.       The proposed project is based on a request submitted by the GOI in
May 1982. The project was prepared by the GOI with assistance from Unesco
and consultants financed by Governments of Australia, France, Germany and
Switzerland. Project appraisal took place in July 1982 with follow-up
discussions held in Indonesia in October 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 5 to 7, 1983 with the Indonesian delegation led by
Professor Dr. D.A. Tisna Amidjaja, Director General of Higher Education.  A
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4308-IND) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives
33.       In support of the GOI's plan to increase the supply of middle-
level manpower, the proposed project would pursue the following objectives:
(a) expand polytechnic enrollments and output by constructing,
equipping and staffing seven extensions to existing polytechnics
and eleven new polytechnics which upon completion would
accommodate about 15,000 students;
(b) increase the number of technical teachers and develop new and
improved curricula and teaching materials by financing con-
struction, equipment and technical assistance to establish a
Polytechnic Education Development Center (PEDC); and
(c) assist the MEC in defining appropriate mechanisms for management
of the expanded polytechnic subsystem within the higher educa-
tion system and supporting project planning and feasibility
studies by providing consultant services and fellowships.
Components
34.       Polytechnic Expansion.  (Proposed outlay $147.4 million, including
contingencies). The objective of this component would be to expand
technician-level enrollments and output through provision of additional
polytechnic facilities. The proposed project would finance: expansion of
seven existing polytechnics and construction of eleven new polytechnics;
equipment; fellowships for overseas training of polytechnic teachers and
administrators, and consultant services to help plan and introduce new
specialist courses.
35.       As in the case of the established polytechnics, the new institu-
tions would be located within university campuses. The polytechnic
directors would be responsible to the university rectors through the deans



- 13 -
of undergraduate studies for the management of the polytechnics. Overall
polytechnic development would be coordinated by the DGHE. Each polytechnic
would comprise a director, an assistant director and units responsible for
administration, teaching programs, student services and liaison with
business and industry. An advisory board representing local industry would
be established for each new polytechnic: the main purpose would be to
ensure that the polytechnic courses are relevant to regional employment
needs. Agreement was reached during negotiations that, as with the first
six polytechnics, within six months of the opening of each new polytechnic
an advisory board would be established with functions and composition
satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       The seven polytechnics to which extensions would be added are
located one each in Jakarta, Malang, Semarang, Medan and Palembang and two
in Bandung. These locations were originally selected because of their
industrial density. For the eleven new polytechnics, the locations have
been determined either to complement the present size and potential growth
of certain cities' manufacturing industries or to improve the distribution
of post-secondary educational opportunities in less developed areas. Four
large new engineering polytechnics would be located in areas of relatively
high population density and industrial growth - Padang, Ujung Pandang,
Surabaya and Lhok Seumawe. Seven smaller polytechnics, with two-year courses
specifically supporting regional infrastructure development and related
construction industries would be located in relatively less developed areas
- Denpasar, Kupang, Samarinda, Banjarmasin, Ambon, Manado and Pontianak.
37.       Polytechnic courses would cover the basic engineering fields
(civil, electrical and mechanical), new engineering specializations related
to existing and expected industrial development (aeronautical engineering,
chemical process engineering, telecommunications, shipbuilding and repair,
refrigeration and air conditioning, and foundry), and commerce studies
(secretarial/office practices, accounting, banking and tourism, the latter
two being pilot courses). All courses would emphasize practical application
in business and industry.
38.       The proposed project would increase the overall intake capacity
of the polytechnic system by 5,740 student places to a total of 7,200 with
3,770 added places in engineering and 1,970 new places in commerce. The
number of secondary school graduates exceeds the planned increase of intake
by a ratio of 70 to 1, hence no shortage of applicants. Due to the project
investments, total enrollment in the system would reach nearly 20,000 by
1989. The polytechnics are expected to have a much higher success rate than
the existing diploma courses as a result of their better methods of student
selection, good facilities, well-designed courses and teaching material, and
well-trained teachers. The annual output from the expanded polytechnic
system is expected to be around 6,500 and this would increase as the
polytechnics introduce part-time and upgrading courses in response to local
needs.
39.       The lack of well-qualified and trained technical teachers is the
main constraint in polytechnic development and the supply of teachers has



- 14 -
been the main factor determining the size and scope of the project.  The
proposed project would require about 1,700 teachers and 70 senior management
staff of whom about 1,000 would he in engineering specializations. The main
source of new engineering teachers would be diploma holders from the first
six polytechnics and it is planned that from 1985, when those polytechnics
have their first output, until 1988, about 307 of the polytechnic graduates
would be recruited and trained as new polytechnic teachers. In addition to
preservice training, the proposed project would finance fellowships for
overseas training for selected polytechnic administrators and senior teach-
ers. During appraisal, agreement was reached on the schedule of appointment
and training of polytechnic staff and on the criteria and procedulres for
selection of fellowship recipients. The University Development I Project
(Ln. 1904-IND) includes a feasibility study of financial and administrative
matters relating to university staff which would also be relevant to the
recruitment and employment of polytechnic teachers. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that the scope of this study would be extended
to cover polytechnic teachers. (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       The monitoring and evaluation system being developed under the
first polytechnic project would be continued under the proposed project and
extended to include a mid-term review.  It is understood that the mid-term
review would he carried out in April 1986. An assurance was obtained at
negotiations that project monitoring would be carried out in accordance with
terms of reference and a schedule satisfactory to the Bank. (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       Polytechnic Education Development Center (PEDC).  (Proposed outlay
$11.1 million, including contingencies). The purpose of this component
would be to establish a PEDC for training technical teachers and developing
new and improved curricula and teaching materials in the extended range of
technical and commercial specializations. The PEnC would absorb and build
upon the TEDC established under the Polytechnic I Project at Bandung (para.
26). The proposed project would finance construction and equipment costs of
the PEDC, overseas fellowships for PEDC staff, and consultant services for
assistance in staff development, curriculum development and production of
teaching materials.
42.       Management and Planning Support. (Proposed outlav $7.0 million,
including contingencies). This component would provide consultant services
to conduct studies to determine management skills requirements and to
establish a reliable and relevant information system to assist MEC in
defining appropriate mechanisms for management of the expanded polytechnic
subsystem within the higher education system. Fellowships for overseas
training would be provided for MEC staff.
43.       To support the MEC's project planning, the proposed project would
provide technical assistance and professional services to carry out
preparatory work for a possible third polytechnic project. Project funds
would also be provided to support feasibility studies for the identification



- 15 -
and development of other projects in the education and training sector. These
would include a comprehensive study of technical teacher training require-
ments, their utilization, sources and training. Terms of reference for the
study on the shortage of technical teachers to be included as a part of the
feasibility study mentioned in paragraph 39 were discussed by a Bank mission
in Indonesia in April 1983 and will be finalized for implementation before
September 30, 1983. Terms of reference for the studies for the preparation of
the proposed third polytechnic project would be prepared after relevant
information on the operating outcomes of the First Polytechnic Project becomes
available in 1984.
Technical Assistance
44.       The technical assistance for all the above components would include
151 man-years of foreign consultant services for assistance with staff
training and development and implementation of new courses in the polytechnics
and PEDC, and for planning and management support in MEC. The provision of
fellowships for overseas training would include 63 man-years for polytechnic
staff, 10.5 man-years for PEDC staff and four man-years for senior MEC staff.
The proposed project would also include technical assistance for project
preparation and studies. Terms of references for consultants to assist in
development of programs in basic engineering, chemical engineering and
telecommunications were reviewed at negotiations. It is understood that terms
of reference for consultants' services in shipbuilding, aeronautics, commerce
and foundry would be available for review by May 31, 1983. Assurance was
obtained at negotiations that all consultants would be selected in accordance
with the Bank-s "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Criteria and procedures for selection of fellowship recipients
drawn up under the Polytechnic I Project would be applied to the proposed
project.
Management and Implementation
45.       Management.  The proposed project would be implemented by the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) set up under the DGHE to implement the
Polytechnic I Project. It has functioned well in implementing the first
project ahead of schedule and within the estimated costs. The PIU is
responsible for site acquisition, design and construction of polytechnic
facilities, furniture and equipment procurement, management of technical
assistance, and academic planning and development. The Project Director is
appointed by the Minister of Education and Culture. Due to the additional
workload generated by the proposed project, an understanding was reached
with the Government delegation at negotiations on increased staffing for the
PIU.
46.       Implementation.  The proposed project would be implemented in
approximately six years, from late 1983 to mid-1989. Construction would
proceed in three phases, with the first phase beginning in April 1984 and



- 16 -
all phases completed by June 1986. All sites for the first phase are within
existing university campuses. During negotiations assurance was obtained that
all sites for second and third phase construction would be acquired not later
than six months prior to the scheduled start of construction at each site
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Architectural designs for
construction work would be carried out by local firms of architects and
consulting engineers. These professional services would also cover the
preparation of bidding and contract documents, and supervision of construc-
tion. Initial preparation would be completed with funds provided for project
preparation under Credit 869-IND. Furniture lists would largely conform to
those for the Polytechnic I Project.  Preliminary equipment lists have been
prepared: consultants would assist in the preparation of final equipment lists
and specifications and in bid evaluation. Equipment and furniture procurement
would be completed by June 1986. Bid documents and procedures employed for
implementing the Polytechnic I Project would be used wherever possible. The
program of consultanL services and overseas fellowships would start in January
1984. All project components would be scheduled for completion by June 30,
1989.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost of the proposed project, including the front-end fee,
is estimated at Rp 160.8 billion or $165.8 million, equivalent. The average
unit cost at US$6,400 per student place is reasonable. The foreign exchange
component including the front-end fee is estimated at $107.4 million, or about
65% of total project cost. Customs duties and taxes are estimated to amount
to about 3.6% of total project cost, including contingencies. Base costs
refer to March 1983 prices. Physical contingencies represent an average of
9.2% of base costs based on 10% for civil works, equipment, furniture and
professional services and 5% for technical assistance and fellowships. Local
price increases are forecast to be 20% for 1983, 15% for 1984, 11% for 1985
and 7% in subsequent years. Foreign price increases are estimated at 8% for
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7.0% for 1985 and 6% in subsequent years. Total price
contingencies amount to about 26% of the base cost plus physical contin-
gencies. Foreign consultant service costs are based on $8,300/man-month
inclusive of salaries, allowances and international airfare; local consultant
costs are estimated to be $2,140/man-month. Foreign fellowship costs are
estimated at $1,500/manmonth. The Bank loan of $107.4 million would finance
100% of the foreign exchange costs. The GOI would provide the remaining $58.4
million, equivalent.
Procurement
48.       Civil works contracts for 13 sites which are estimated to cost
over $2.0 million each would be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Procurement Guidelines.
Foreign contractors, however, are unlikely to submit bids, because construc-
tion sites are spread over a wide geographical area. The civil works



- 17 -
coatracts for the remaining six sites would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with GOI procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. Prior Bank review would be required for about
nine awards of contracts exceeding or at about $3.0 million each, covering
about 63% of the total civil works value. Equipment would be grouped into
packages to the extent possible for bulk procurement. Contracts for equip-
ment each costing $100,000 or more and totalling about $55 million would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. Local manufacturers would be permitted to partici-
pate and would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is lower, in the evaluation of bids. Contracts
for equipment items which cannot be grouped to form bid packages of $100,000
or more in estimated value would be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding, under GOI procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank
subject to an aggregate value not exceeding $5.0 million. Miscellaneous
,>quipment items in packages not exceeding $25,000, and subject to an
aggregate not exceeding $1.0 million, would be purchased on the basis of at
least three price quotations. Prior Bank review would be required on awards
of equipment contracts above $250,000, covering about 23% of the number of
contracts and about 77% of the value. Instructional materials and books
estimated at about $1.5 million would be procured through direct purchase
after negotiations for discounts. Furniture totalling about $3.6 million
and averaging less than $200,000 per institution would be procured under
government procedures on the basis of local competitive bidding. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI to make adequate provision
for the proper maintenance and repair of equipment procured under the
proposed project (Section 4.03 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Disbursement
49.       The proposed loan of $107.4 million would be disbursed over a
period of six years. Disbursements would be made on the basis of: (a) 40%
of the cost of civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equip-
ment and materials, 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured
materials and equipment, 65% of the cost of imported materials and equipment
procured locally; and (c) 100% of the cost of consultant and professional
services, fellowships and studies. To the extent possible, withdrawal
applications would be aggregated in amounts of $100,000 or more prior to
submission to the Bank for disbursement.
Accounts and Audit
50.       Project accounts would be maintained according to accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the GOI would provide the Bank with audited
annual financial statements within six months of the close of each
Indonesian fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 18 -
Benefits and Risks
51.       The major beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the
manufacturing, transportation, telecommunication, construction, energy and
commerce sectors. These would benefit from the supply of the additional and
better trained technical manpower produced by the strengthened polytechnic
system. Four principal benefits are expected to result from the proposed
project: (a) expanded output of higher quality technicians in commercial
fields and in both basic and specialized engineering disciplines to help
meet future national manpower needs; (b) increased numbers of well-qualified
technical teachers, now in critically short supply; (c) an improved range
and quality of teaching materials and curricula; and (d) improved management
of polytechnic education. At full operating capacity, the annual output
from the polytechnics would rise to about 6,500 graduates, from the level of
about 1,300 under the first project. This would enable the polytechnics to
meet about 18% of estimated annual requirements for trained technicians.
Further, the new polytechnics would supply part of the remaining manpower
needs by various part-time programs to be offered at a variety of locations
in 15 of the 27 provinces in Indonesia. The PEDC would provide a permanent
capacity for training about 700 technical teachers each year. The poly-
technics established under the proposed project would have a high internal
efficiency and would set standards for the technical education subsector as
a whole. The proposed project would also enhance the opportunities of
senior secondary school graduates to receive tertiary-level education
through the provision of an additional 5,700 first-year places, representing
a 10% increase over the 1981/82 intake at public institutions of higher
learning.
52.       Achievement of anticipated benefits from the proposed project
would depend largely on success in recruiting, training and retaining
teaching staff. There is a risk that the MEC would find it difficult to
recruit adequate numbers of qualified staff to run the polytechnics on a
full-time basis. Recognizing this problem, the project would rely on
recruitment of inexperienced polytechnic graduates and provide intensive
initial training and in-service support. The risk of immediate loss of
newly trained staff to higher paying jobs in industry would be reduced by:
(a) the existing system of bonding staff to teach after training, and (b)
the availability of low cost housing loans for teachers. The results of the
study on university staff included in the University Development Project
(Ln. 1904-IND) are expected to provide the GOI with information on which it
could base the development of a long-term strategy for staff incentives. A
second risk is that the polytechnics, located within universities, might
introduce degree courses and so produce graduates at the expense of
technicians. A related risk is that the polytechnics would not receive
adequate funding for recurrent expenditures which would be higher than
average university running costs. To offset these risks, the proposed
monitoring system and mid-term review would serve to highlight deviations
from project objectives at an early enough stage to allow corrective action



- 19 -
to be taken by the MEC. The studies on ways to improve management of the
polytechnic system, built into the proposed project, would also help reduce
these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 25, 1983
Washington, D.C.



MANEX I
- 20 -                                    Page I of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)' 
TOTAL            1919.3                                           MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL      316.5                   1960  lb    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA 4 PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (U5$)                        80.0        140.0           430.0              261.4                  890.1
ENERGY CONSUMSTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           124.7       121.9            225.4             448.7                   701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      94680.0    116143.0          146557.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       14.6        17.1             20.2              17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                                  216.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                    376.3
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                              2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            49.3         60.5             74.6             158.1                  255.9
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         355.9        378.8            452.4             355.9                 1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               40.7        44.0             40.1              36.8                   39.9
15-64 YRS.                              56.2         53.4             56.9              59.7                   56.8
b5 YRS, AND ABOVE                         3.1         2.5              3.1               3.5                    3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.1         2.0              2.3               2.0                    2.3
URBAN                                   3.7          3.6              4.0               3.3                    3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           46.8        40.7             35.3              29.3                   31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           24.5        17.2             13.3              11.0                    9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    2.8         2.7              2.2               2.0                    2.0
fPAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)             ..       181.1           2216.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         0.2             27.1              19.3                   36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF fOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)               93.0        102.0            113.0             108.1                  115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        86.3         93.9            101.7/c            97.3                  106.B
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               38.2         42.4             44.8/c            56.9                   54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             5.6          6.2              6.67_            20.0                   13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           22.9        16.8             11.3              10.9                    6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2         47.3             53.1              57.8                   59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               149.9        120.9             92.7              89.1                   63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          3.0             12.0/d            32.9                   32.0
URBAN                                               10.0             35.07-            70.7                   51.9
RURAL                                    ..          1.0              6.07T            22.2                   20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
CF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         12.0             15.0/e            18.1                   37.7
URBAN                                     ..        50.0             60. 07T           72 .7                  65.7
RURAL                                    ..          4.0              5.0_T             4.7                   24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              46778.7      26498.5          13674.6            3297.8                 8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          4517.0       7672.8           8871.6            4929.3                 4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                1360.3       1644.6           1609.9/d          1100.4                 1047.5
URBAN                                 251.8           ..            699.0/d           301.3                  651.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..           3166. 8/d         5815.7                 2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..          ..             22.4/e              ..                   27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE S1ZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   4.4          4.8
URBAN                                   4.9          5.3               .
RURAL                                   4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..          1.5
URBAN                                      *         1.6
RURAL                                     ..         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLIGSG)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..           ..



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT       LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b      ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                      71.0         78.0             94.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                      86.0         83.0            100.0             101.0                   99.8
FEMALE                    58.0         73.0             89.0              87.8                   92.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                       6.0         16.0             22.0              53.0                   37.6
MALE                      10.0         21.0             27.0              63.8                   41.1
FEMALE                     3.0         11.0             18.0              41.3                   34.1
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)        20.4         22.1             19.8               1.7                   20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 38.8        28.9              37.2              37.7                   35.5
SECONDARY                               14.0         13.1             17.0              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)             39.0         56.6             62.0              52.1                   73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               1.1          2.1              3.5/c             1.5                    9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               7.2        22.0              41.9              35.4                  116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                               0.1          0.8              8.6               3.2                   37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                       11.0           ..             17.7/d            16.4                   53.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA        2.8           ..              o.87i             3.6                    2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          34791.4     41069.9          52582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                        27.8        30.9              29.3              29.5                   33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                   75.0         66.0             58.0              70.0                   52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                       8.0        10.0              12.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                     36.7         35.4             35.9              40.0                   38.5
.1ALE                                     54.2         49.5             51.0              51.8                   50.5
FEMALE                                    20.0        21.6              20.9              23.8                   26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.2          1.3              1.2               1.0                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..             23.5/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..          ..             49.47i
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..           ..              6.67.d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          ..              14.47-                     
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..           136.0             133.8                   194.7
RURAL                                     ..           ..           112.0              111.5                  155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                     ..           ..           119.0                 ..                  178.2
RURAL                                     ..           ..             98.0                ..                  164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                     ..          ..             28.0               43.8                   24.4
RURAL                                     ..           ..            51.0               51.7                   41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/I   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1976; /e 1975.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
- 22-                                                     Page 3of5ppages
DEFINITIONSC OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Cores   dlebsg. hb  dath ar d      ratI t Iee  soucesgenerally Judged the matotoitteead reliable, it should also be noedta  they sty  toh berm--
eceor Pl copaale   eae -     of the lack of stdardieed defloilot. and co..capIs seed by differeo    .....rire  it collecing the   ae   The da Is era,  -ome
_hler    sect  to descibe orda-  of segoude, indicate  rced.  end rb-racc -h-ecetal  r.(- diii errcc   honeeaatui
The refreoce gaspo ar  (1 Pen  - tae--ony grap ri Ile scab) ac  cc--yn -           tt a2 conryg-pI min  s-meht bIg hatl cottag  ta-om   that  hi.o                     rs
of the oiject coatry  teeept tot "High Inco-    dii taporte` grap shar            idl-     Im   CactN i bif ,Ic  and Middle  aE..,  Is chose  heosase of  --toget
sacia-caiunalaiiintits).   t  the nterar  rop data thu. enran   arlouaineigihted orithmt1ic etea-  tar each  ndinl-- ard  h.-e  aniy mic
_sJ.,iup  af nhe cutitIur                  e   :da  fartha  todic-o  .               h.oc    tIe_c cgr of o__rrle   onog   r  nictrsdpends or the ecallailiry  or dat
an   achuuaa.cno   rust,h!a.....ed.i reol orgea of ..e indicot-  to anoher   Thee, neegs  c  cone_                                       ' cof.I lnc-p-rtoghen-loe  of
AREA lcf-o-daq.ka. .i                                                                                  op..lr  a   bopia  led -nnl  -rba,so 'ra- Pop.nfarior  lrta,
Inna  - lTna  s..rface areac Its ihg land ores aud tolard   er 11979 data,crar   .ad r_ra   d inlded bp the it  -perlne-u-br of hosp,Itlha
draluo-lslE.   r  at,,.  aticlarl  ra  td leporarl _cOrp-cosecly                             acolblal  in pbilir and pein.te  gaelad speci 1 lead heap icaen
...c..c     . osncc.  ackec ad inc-h-n  e-den   tcc  Ile fallool 1979 data.                ihtlitaelamcnea   togala  r                          etshibo -r aaeteily staffed
by on least'. ut   icsciy        eI.bl ishr-t  Prodding  printpel,yrso
ftP PECi (PITA (US$) - GNP per a,       t   otmrma  cn           tc -eket prIces   cot                         ..e care aeoa IncluIded    gra.l hoaptels.ho%       ar   acud     eae
colord by ol            - ccortc  nrhud as acrId look Aele. (17-90  ioem     SI                       n  inctnl   ennc      Potrreral  matd  yaphysic betht  y
19I01. and 1911d0   o                                                                                   odtcal...tltat.-  ral,sdeife,  etcI   hi!, offer ir-pariroratem
detica sod    -iocd. a hatred cege ci  maiel1 tociliriem.  Po.,ta-t-
tru irci,  cn ktilcgra- cica e- tnlenprr caPitna   196. 1970, ord 1979                               carers   Ipcleilineed               -trat r  included only  -oo  ttl 
nd i_ooa  len inopiruBetd - Otal1    b ace erlt  d             Isen    na a  diuch-,g-
fror bo-pirots diolded by tho ...sbc of bada.
POPULAIONO ADil VITOAST.ATISTICS
Tonal Poralaniun. Otud-Ocar (chrumoodo) -~~~~~A usf Jcly i; 1910. 19P0, an  19ti     lilCIti
deco.                                                                    brec~~~~~lage Sioe of ItaenalId fpcauprhc-hl)-t t  urban  and ocrl-
Irisa   auclonon (pecant c  tarot  - lo Iaf scion  noora  Ipapulanc;                      IberodcoI_t   f agopa  iadirlduot                           h-obrefnn   ta
dllf i.e.. dI irin         ,I,uba  scatsy a   -ect -osoeblIcy t1  dat                              an Id chaIr rein   aab.  A hoarder or lodger sa nmy  nor be Inloded It
tl6.  10,  acGId 191  ca_                                                          the N..emhl di co,  -talontcu parpu_..
Popalnir  PocrlamA-ecgeno'Aler cI p.r..   oar P" ro- cara, ucy-c, atd rura    -                                                                                                -nrge os
Popoatic  Ic  oec  0(0- iaCe"."  ~pcpo-ic- projociarn  ac  ba-d an lilt                     b-r cf peroor   pr rc   in alais, aed  -rurl occpied cr-ee tna
cana  Pcpclo1i-u bc age and enad chat   -crliccy Iecu    ii c lly coe.dae'li ct   reeecl clc  rY Ilg  et -an -prr-aeorat--t-rs-d
ccg tile  cecac   an         , hlt  icetgmIIcunh          c   P-c c-pico Icc..                accelafrccct    -pb-ildriaol-ttl                               aro .ad rues  -
.c  eIt c  rate sl-c baco th-o  lrcot.s.t..cig drctle in                                ot ro-.  oin   n   acldaloo   epclr
ho    --yac  ca thin  a-otgnd o-e  i tbh-  rice conbi-oicrsuieuctaliy                     EDCATuION
oca f-rilttcyreadoccp-jr-itc.p....te-.                                                        bAd'utedtE-1ctLeeRhric-
ltuclc        ..acyc-auc,l-nl-cc     - daochicacpycarar  horl   "nIcnbtc                          Proaicho-oslocodeca-ylr-lcnaunt.alsn teeatl
-1   -     hh io Is -ch-lrd unlpaftrr  Pe-nln  r-roar Ie lo   opi-ay  -cca-gepp.                                     a am nclpicldecold-r  eged h-I
nbc colc -et  re  of -nont  ecdorc    an,aoc                      -c en-rt-o                      cyar   b.n udj-cated   cafeotlcnac   rsr    -dicr-a;(o
eon laned  n c h  bosm  al  it pIj-c-d-caacelocsc         Etapplarc                       oce  ur  at            - c  babe or-scce  thr ci Itl~  acoaI     ae
.oa..ii .a.d.Irrtcirccey                yeal         raeueyIlaco-                      neand-acoo-cti,c                 _rde_aIte-lepueadlyaIae-daecnp arp
Pcpts  Icc'ell,                                                                                      teld_ed_.         .   1  11   'lYI               P-          I-
cir-lc       1 lih, 1970  -nd lily  dacs.                                                       ltcdr  rbl,hdauto                       - roher   S prgna  uhlc  cp-...ndgod
Peruiffis.agci.t Iacltsd -lunCcop d aca.b-a  iuca.5iccta-otts-d                              entcudepsrensleudr    nnnra
c.tIy; 19hf, till acd 1979 doIo                                                                Tuh  aco   a  o-prsr.odocray - P1   ordenna  -nc1ted in
harul nlco  go Inucuce  peccr ci  Chilldre   (i-la  h-ar). -urkint-aga  ill-               praary o-d  ..c.nd-ry l1c1l  dtcidrd by  _ubon  t noac_ toti
hI crane), and ntnrtd  (hi pauc  an - ao--i asprrn o   ci oid-yrr Papa-                            crepdinglcLn
laclo; t6h. ll,  an  1910 dora.                                                                  Adalt ltlec-rcrea    arc            L  Lc-eatauum       lae rc red  -rd eri-e
pooctoync Ircec  hont ieccnnn)- c-anal -  -uao  gr-o'h ca-a ot ronal  int-                  ..o.ac.......   ci ecI        dctt PapaIl scIo   ...d ti yrac  andnar
year cpolaa-o  far I91-ti. 196i-70. sod l9li-il.
Pcaaco   G-ceh do i   crici- cbaa -unA,-  gIanch c-nc  cf  -cbe  papa-                      CNleilcOPTIuN
t,icot fcr 1950-60, 1990-li, and tiOb.Paunge  hart (per thousn  pptat                                                                           - Panaercr  cmrs    ao
Cr-do Etcch none(pe   i ad    -anua  lic- bircha Prc ch.....d ci cid-ceac'l ca                               -ainl lean chan tgght Pera-n        -   tdr- aeuanr.beame   m
populr cr  1960. 19).od19  doe                                                                      il t..s.. ceicre
Iruit mc  tune (cc-    --coac) - annua  leoch   crrnuon                  ciri-pociaa  Eecece   prnaun  pasto)-All cynen cI re-eie-   for radio
yaoa   c;191 , 1901. ond liii dana.                                                          Itacaunea   tptin  yr  t                    _oad ni Pcputonhon; racodeun
R-onerdocccgn- Aceoech                     h  lstraennliat                                  lce...edrecet-rriccootleaa-d in  yract~eieraltr Ilrfrsdio
uracnaranuucacpcnniihaanrlrcr  prilnlottcllc-n -nuaLraff-cc;dotunnrcaa    Yoen    Ye aonnaowrheinc
cllc    ona  aalI   f cepocsar1o   cin   n   9i,190  uOlIi                                   ma  ccInr ba hcimhcd tcrlg
of bemthh- -loc  de-lc-  urdrc  -poce  of cat l... 1 tanitc placilg pr-g-a.                        genea  pobtic   . pth ...a..d population; e-c1odac  ant ceoed TVtcei-er
PunclcPlunrrna-lnrct (mccann ocmacniedacaoci-Percecosgocie rid                     icco--tmtetad(ncacteboreh..                ra Ifrl  sT     tea    tomf-ie.
hIcild aIog  Eg  (1-lb  Y.."l  on  or  ach-MneI-t  dtolco  ro                           tmrpr ucb.c   (prccnha.....d  opotatIooj) - lbh-e  Ile a-erg  tie-
sI!sccr de oin  ae  g  g-oc.                                                                       -Itoi-o  cf  daily ga-ra   i--eta  camspaper, defi-d ..a  pe t..dia
pablicsnior decntd primacltaceco digearo   ee.O  to canidered
pill a,tD gUngIpluN                                                                                    tohbe cdeilcc  if 'inope_ra   lJt  Po   laa_               rb
Laden uP Pond Proda-iaprfrn   (1i-l-l( -,tdtact p--aplcAa...oat                                    Ctnl- oulurrdneprfot Mpar Ya-tate-d on  he aher of
productIon  .fIal  .u..  .orainim          rdn noldnte   n  feed and                               nick-r  mod -uing thepe. io-tadig admami-itat drin-ircIine-
cat tono  -crae p--d-e pFac  attghre; 1961-h5. t9P0, and 1911 dsca.                             lani.  Labor.-(, .....itloada)   E-fccic-lly  -cci- Persona, including
Per cania maput  ci caiuieo  (pecent cc  ecc.itaocnni -hoapicedicco                scod  fcrca   ard caeptacedIcll,acfodIn-   hott-lato-dutadeta. dnc
pet day.  u-iotlua     appli te -opri-r d-aJti  p-od-tc -ico . -t c   tis                           c  c-esrabte; 19  191ad 1981daa
sod ch.                                                                                                                                              f nuak    o    ayltanlu  aia   ed   od,Pel   prc  i     eaalbrfree   euraea   -ee1 laber force.
qa..tlilea-t-do ImodPI             i,d prcnlg   n    Iote     din _ akcIoin    Iaquir-gilrapeut)-  .Lbo.areIt                                       ..tn. focun,  uningan
mecc  acre, runh i- d by PAl  . rtdonphyilolo  icl nsada far n-rl oc-i-                              firbingos. ye-crntag   at -onal lame' 1are  I . lI9Py and P99  date
clpad be_lnh ...lol    ocI_        ren i    ce_per-t-e. bodp orighns, og                       Indan-y (pe--)-Lbrtrc   nano.cnratir    aoarro
and se  di-cib-niar oi pcI      a .in, d al1cec-g 10 p-cea   Par  -ur   nsa    icrltye   ace-r-1   ard lssopacng  of-..... narel labo  to-rco
hoo-hald 1-cn; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977 lan.-                                                         idnI0  1970 ond tIt0IIdana
ft   o   aorl   i  cao   uaolrdo)-Pcaoutr  cf per c-p-                                  Parn1xic Ictn   non  (percet  -uo                         - al,  n     oat- P-ticip-tiono
no   uppaZ     odprdY,  Plan  uPyly uP f-cd in defIned s-  obc.  Ra-                            annlci -yra    reaer -uP-adeun-at.  -s.od P..sslo  labor forc-a
allatoc- aatna-a "ylura                   lcaedlc   SD ce -acs dllroocalai ctI,tlD.ad                                .dIdc.  -bes  PrtaadnP,               Otr:'paY;roe
.   .. c        a sa                  -I          - cr---aonor  TclcerdpcpudhPlnheahhcrlA tcnnartdacal-uioaipaot tnc dr  I-g dile -d.na
acrId Fund  aruy; 1911-h5, till end 1977dna                                                        to the caret labor f-cc-
Perrdo  rni  sapyio   nns   c                    Oe - Potin  sapply ci f-ud de-
ried ocoleat  -cd palut  in grsFer day; 1961-iS, 1971ad 1971 dana.                      INCOMEt DISTRIBUTION
rIco- dana doci-d    lrn   ite -blen; 196i, (9i  u-d lin0 dana.                                   ufbanoia
iEALyn                                                                                            POVERTYi  TARGET 00bLps
iitecurcscn-ohtbcor( -I.ecgeoonhac aycccn l)iieet-i-g                                              The rictltu-i-ngaathaun..ti orucayauuetn                    tfco--lylec-l..
sobril,; l19ni, 19)0  -Il tOil data.                                                             and  h-aul  bt inorprened airy                 leoieabacI_c
U               en tcarchonfa    hosdi     ata   Irn Et a     loscrnd-  atcu                teiarkhhhainhc(ot  trL (i  o   epc)-ob- and  -ar1 -
ci ag  pII1960.  irbins;lb, 1970 and 1980  hIsn.                                                   Absolut  p-nrty Ino          -1ice  in rbnin  t  tnthao   biaIaio
be-cfpa t          -1na.  -rh-, and rcro1  II) htn ......obtaucrs.. so.  a..rab
'onr,P"l  (I_cudotr               _f_aciaeosturnratdnt-Inoinnd                               ncsnd  esiePctc   caaL l(Ul pe  cepito) -rban and  -arl 
eo -rIsc   -m char.c   p      lnced irhla  ucig           -ad t-i-oc   ae1il  a                tR-1 reta-i- p--ery locale .. ie  in an-nPInd of a-cge Pet nopia
pc   gcoen I at tb  rurt pactire  papaloina    Ianunnarau icyrctinteorhcaty.tbalneIsderined fro- cbe cora
tocoaia  c oandpan  tcond nntr   hoodiatt    rnhcrsyh                                       ta  uth uiutea   a  bihrco  a   IaeI_                     ulceaa
cP- dc-        aaoaccoetrbtaco    chahat                                                           P'aaoa iaaae    uaatra5uautnPnrynceiol(aaai-ra
c..nttaconatidapy  hnhh   cno.cc _rernr a.                             b  hauseb-y ld            and 1-o"-PocrroIpplolcc(rbnaa                      Iart  -b- r            le
dc-cat ha e g    -ro  a-Jlccp.rlctprno l..             ot lo    lfrchn     -bpo
comaty' neater-.b.ret do.
-e-nnonc        -Idfaocnller1cenn  aI -coaLan)ncolaraf   sodch               a
Nasbracdlyanc-p-ia..)IIcast. ,cba.  cddaluenrb           Icctr  (l-cunaoh
pooatc    et Phyolcla- - Papalontlao diundrd by curb r  f pr-cjintg hlys I-                                                         Pcneuc           - oIsi eats  ieioo
cisrm0a-lifatl hro- ,tdc -         s-ch-ulturi Iertn      _(nel                                                                    hucoulc uAtymliuad Projection   tlrp-eren
cuctcicpo-        mrrn  Pren Pcpa tia - dirtied by nube  atf pr-cielog                                                                                  tap 19h2
natsoueaoeprdutec.cnt,aotnonnarcl,c-ticl2                 - couaod



- 23 -
A-NNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         147.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  USS520 (1981 estimate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Annual growth rate (%)
Amount                                  (at constant 1973 prices)
(million US$ at
current prices)                        Actual                         Estlmate           Projected
Indicator                             1980           1975   1976   15                                               1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         70,024            5.0    6.9    8.8    6.9    5.3    9.7    7.5    2.1    4.8    5.0    5.0
Agriculture                     18,003            0.0    4.7    1.3    5.2    4.0    5.5    3.5    3.1    L.7    1.6    2.2
Industry                        29,227            5.6   11.1   14.2    5.9    5.5    9.0    8.7   -5.5    7.0   10.0    6.0
Services                        22,794           10.1    5.9   12.0    8.9    6.9    8.5    9.0    7.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consumption                       48,976            6.9    6.4    7.9    8.5    9.9   11.6    6.6   10.3    2.3    2.4    3.6
Gross investment                  15,176           14.6    6.0   16.0   15.0    4.4   17.8   23.0    6.3    1.0   -1.0            4.3
Exports of GNFS                   21,365           -9.7   12.5   22.4    1.9   -1.0   -4.2  -10.5  -11.5    1.9   15.0    6.7
Imports of GNFS                   15,494            7.9    8.1   22.2   15.6   13.9   13.6    6.0    8.0   -2.0            2.0    2.0
Gross national savings            17,576          -19.7   12.0   33.3   -2.1   37.1   -2.1         8.0    3.0    2.0    4.0    5.0
PRICES
GDP deflator (1973 = 100)                           166    190    214    237    311    400    440    493    542    591    638
Exchange rate                                       415    415    415    442    623    625    637    675    970    970    970
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)                           Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1973 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Gross domestic product        100    100    100    100    100    100             3.9           8.4         7.5         5.0          5.0
Agriculture                  54      47     32      26      22      17         2.7          4.1          4.1         2.5         3.5
Industry                     14     18      34      42      44      46         5.2         12.0         9.7          5.5         6.5
Services                     32     35      35      33      36      36         4.8          9.7         9.0          6.5         5.0
Consumption                  91     89      79      70      74      74         4.1          8.4          8.9         5.0         5.0
Gross investment              8     14      20      22      26      27         4.8         18.3        11.7          6.0         4.5
Exports of GEFS              13      13     23      31      23      18         3.6          9.2          8.7        -2.4         1.8
Imports of GNFS            -13    -16    -22    -22    -23    -19              3.2         22.1        14.0          2.5         3.5
Gross national savings        8       9     17      25      25      22         6.1         23.1         14.4         4.8         5.3
As S of GDP
1960           1970            1975           1980
PU'BLIC FINANCE lb
Current revenues                                                            11.7           10.1            10.5           23.4
Current expenditures                                                        14.0            8.4             9.3           13 3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                 -2.3            f1.6           +7.1           +10.1
Capital expenditure                                                          n.a.           5.0            10.7           13.5
Foreign financing                                                            0.2            3.5             3.7             3.4
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                4.5              7.6                 6.9             4.9              4.8
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (8)                     2.4              5.1                 4.5             2.5              2.4
Annual energy consumption growith rate (%)                2.9             16.0                15.0             7.0              6.0
ICOR                                                      2.2             2.2                 3.1              4.5              4.3
Marginal savings rate                                     0.30             0.48                0.30            0.2              0.3
Import elasticity                                         1.2             2.8                 1.9              1.2              0.7
/a At market prices.
/b Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
March 31, 1983



Population        147.4 million (mid-1980)                 -  24  -                                                    ANNEX I
GNP per Capltat US$520 (1981 estimate)                                                                                 Page 5 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                      Estimate                 Projected
Indicator                   1977      1978      1979      1980      1981     1982       1983      1984      1985      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS /a
1.  Exports                             10,861   11,353   17,494   22,245   22,994    19,385   18,193   22,270   25,344   48,180
(a)  Oil & LNG (gross)               7,354    7,374   11,323   16,661   18,824    15,631   13,893   16,979   19,004   31,759
(b)  Nonoil                          3,507    3,979    6,171    5,584    4,170         3,754    4,300    5,291    6,340   16,421
2.  Imports (including net NFPS)       -10,686  -11,493  -14,035  -18,649  -22,096   -22,900  -21,472  -22,558  -23,740  -39,850
(a)  Oil sector                    -2,909   -3,364   -4,348   -5,884   -5,407    -5,468   -4,617   -4,451   -4,467   -7,001
(b)  Nonoil imports                -7,241   -7,543   -9,028  -11,790  -14,022   -14,803  -14,388  -15,584  -17,029  -30,155
(c)  NFS (net)                        -536      -586     -659      -975   -2,667    -2,629   -2,467   -2,523   -2,244   -2,694
3.  Resource balance                       175      -140    3,459    3,596         898    -3,516   -3,279       -288    1,604    8,330
4.  Factor services                       -865   -1,015   -1,261   -1,205   -3,267    -3,772   -4,151   -5,004   -5,910  -10,245
(a)  Interest public debt             -441     -514      -772      -819      -840    -1,118   -1,319   -1,617   -1,953   -3,036
(b)  Other (net)                      -424      -501     -489      -386   -2,427    -2,654   -2,832   -3,387   -3,957   -7,209
5.  Capital grants                          66        46        52        76        67        100      100       100       100       100
6.  Balance on current account            -624   -1,109    2,250    2,467   -2,302    -7,188   -7,530   -5,395   -4,605   -1,915
7.  Direct foreign investment              285       271       217       140      134        276       350       450       600    1,000
8.  Public M & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                    1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    3,203         5,180    5,920    6,684    6,673    7,091
(b)  Amortization                     -825   -1,548   -1,329       -953   -1,001    -1,376   -1,770   -2,042   -2,440   -5,120
(c)  Net disbursements               1,131       657      536    1,583    2,202        3,803    4,200    4,642    4,233    1,971
9.  Other capital (net)                   -140       891   -1,261   -1,454   -1,172          874    2,050        156      -202       -10
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)    -651         -708   -1,690   -2,736         988     2,234       729       -55      -426   -2,231
It.  Net official reserves                2,208    2,916    4,606    7,342    6,354         4,120    3,390    3,445    3,871    8,775
Reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                        3.4       4.3      5.6       6.9       5.4        3.0       2.6       2.4       2.5      3.4
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
system /b                                 -         -    6,906   10,787   11,154        7,420    5,390    5,445    5,871   10,775
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                           3.4       4.3       8.6      10.1      9.5        5.4       4.1       3.8       3.8       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /c
Gross Disbursements                     1,956    2,205    1,865    2,536    2,356
Concessional Loans                     -*8-T        9484      433      _C36      S29
Bilateral                               381       448       399       631      729
IDA                                      49        29        30        42       68
Other                                    12         6         5         6         5
Nonconcessional Loans                   1,514    1,721    1,432    1,858    1,552
Official export credits                 218       271        61        25      154
IBRD                                    191       168       199      331       106
Other multilateral                       16        12        46        52       86
Private - source                      1,089    1,270    1,126    1,450    1,206
External Debt (fixed-term)
Debt outstanding & disbursed /d   11,658   13,107   13,233   14,882   15,529
Official - source                   7,077    8,390    8,434    9,400    9,746
Private  - source                   4,583    4,717    4,799    5,482    5,783
Undisbursed debt                      4,475    5,839    7,932    9,454   11,268
Debt Service
Total service payments                1,262    2,062    2,101    1,772    1,974
Interest                              441       514       771      819       973
Payments as X exports /e               11.6      18.2      12.0      8.0       9.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans
(M)                                     6.3       7.6      6.6       8.4       9.1
Official - source                       5.4       4.6       5.0       5.0      7.8
Private  - source                       8.6      10.2       8.6     12.8      10.4
Average Maturity of New Loans
(Years)                                20.5      18.7     19.1      19.0      15.6
Official - source                      23.9      30.1      25.8      24.8     20.8
Private  - source                      10.4       8.6      11.1     10.0      10.7
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                30.9
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                               60.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                                4.1
/a  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7   Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7T  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.                                                               East Asia and Pacific Programs
7X  At end of period.                                                                                            March 31, 1983
7T  Oil exports treated on gross basis.



-25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 29 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1983)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                 Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                 (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank      IDA  Ulndisbursed
Tw-elve Loans and thirty-five Credits fully disbursed  559.3   521.5              -
400     1973   Sma2lholder and Private Estate Tea           -        7.8         0.5
428      1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate               -       16.5         4.7
479      1974   Bali Tourism                                -       16.0         0.4
1100      1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.0      -            6.7
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension           21.5      -            0.1
1197      1976   Naticnai Resource Survey & Mapping          13.0     -           3.0
1236      1976   Fourth Highway                            130e0      -           6.9
1237      1976   Fourth Education                           37.0      -            4.4
1250      1976   Second Shipping                            54.0      -            1.8
1267      1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.0      -           0.2
1268      1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.0      -            6.3
1318      1977   Transmigration and Rural Development   30.0          -            0.3
1336      1977   Second Urban Development                   52.5      -            5.1
1337      1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.0      -           9.0
1365      1977   Sixth Power                               116.0      -          28.4
1373      1977   Nutrition Development                      13.0      -           2.8
1433      1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.0      -           7.2
1434      1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.0      -          28.8
1435      1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.0      -           4.4
1472      1977   Second Population                          24.5      -            7.1
1486      19 78   Norr-Formal Education                     15.0      -            4.0
1499      1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.0      -          23.9
1513      1978   Seventh Power                              94.0      -          29.7
785      1978   Small Enterprise Development                -       40.0         9.1
1578      1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.0      -         106.8
1579      19 78   Eleventh Irrigation                       31.0      -          14.0
827      1978   Rural Credit                                -       30.0         3.7
1604      1978   Nuc'leus Estates & Smallholders II         65.0      -          48.6
8 69     19 79   Polytechnic                                -       49.0        24.1
1645      19 79   Twelfth Irrigation                        77e0      -          47.2
1653      1979   Third Urban Development                    54.0      -          23.1
898      1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                  -       10.0         8.7
1691      1979   Lower Cimanluk Basin Flood Control         50.0      -          29.6
1692      1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.0      -          13.2
1696      1979   Fiftn Highway                             123.2      -          74.8
1703      1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.0      -           9.1



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 2 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less csacellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
919    1979   Transmigration II                           -       67.0        23.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.0      -         88.1
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.0      -          77.5
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.0      -          24.2
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                -       12.0         9.6
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders III         99.0      -         63.9
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development              -       45.0        34.4
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                        -       45.0        28.9
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II           -       42.0        36.4
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.0     -          84.0
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders IV          42.0     -          35.3
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research             35.0     -          35.0
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research              -       30.0       24.4
1869    1980   Third Population                           35.0     -          33.6
1872    1980   Ninth Power                               253.0     -         203.6
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development            46.0     -          40.6
1904    1981   University Development                     45.0     -          43.9
1950    1981   Tenth Power                               250.0     -         177.7
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                          22.0     -          18.1
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                   43.0     -          38.8
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V          161.0      -        150.4
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development   106.0         -          24.1
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.0     -          85.0
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                            170.0     -         167.8
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.0     -          14.9
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining
Development & Transport                185.0     -         158.4
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                   100.0     -          98.9
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                    80.0     -           79.8
2102    1982   Second Textbook                            25.0     -          25.0
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                       37.0     -          36.1
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation                     70.0      -          66.3
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Distribution           66.0      -          64.1
2126    1982   Nucleus Est. & Smallholders VI             68.1     -          67.0
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering               25.0     -          24.6
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp & Paper                   5.5     -            5.5
Engineering Project /1
2214    1983   Twelfth Power /1                          300.0     -         300.0
2232    1983   Nucleus Estates & Smallholders VII /1 154.6         -         154.6
2235    1983   Provincial Health /1                       27.0     -          27.0
2236    1983   Jakarka Sewerage & Sanitation /1           22.4     -          22.4
/_  Not yet effective.



- 27 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 29 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
2248    1983   Transportation III /a                     101.0      -         101.0
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development          30.0      -          30.0
Project /a
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              5,246.60  931.80
Of which has been repaid                     -200.11   -7.69
Total now outstanding                         5,046.49  924.11
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Amount repaid by third party          -27.21      -1.03
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b             5,045.46  924.11
Total undisbursed                             3,082.70  207.90   3,290.60
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 29 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                Type of            Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business                 (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles            2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable               2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market      4.0       1.2        5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
1982   P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Market         4.0       0.3        4.3
Total gross commitments                            118.8      18.0     136.8
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 79.6       5.7       85.3
Total held by IFC                                   39.2      12.3      51.5
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   16.7             -       16.7



- 29 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 29 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
As of March 31, 1983
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                                  6-10
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811, 995, 1958, 2118 and 2119)
Other Agricultural Projects  (1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751, 1835,           10-13
2007, 2126, 2232, 984, and 1898)
Agriculture Support Services (996, 1840/1014 and 2066)                        14
Rural Development (946)                                                       15
Agro-Business and Credit (785, 827 and 2011)                                 15-16
Education (869, 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692, 1904, 2101 and 2102)                 16-19
Energy (1365, 1513, 1708, 1872, 1950, 2056, 2079, 2153, and 2214)            19-21
Industrial Development and Finance
Industry (2199)                                                               22
Development Finance Companies (1703)                                          22
Population and Health
Population (1472 and 1869)                                                    23
Health (2235)                                                                 23
Technical Assistance (898 and 1197)                                             24
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (2120)                                                24
Highways (1696, 2049 and 2083)                                            25-26
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       26
Ports (1337)                                                                  26
Tourism (479)                                                                   27
Urban Development (1336, 1653 and 1972)                                     27-28
Water Supply and Sanitation (1709 and 2236)                                  28-29
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 6 of 29 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about two years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
delays in the completion of bidding documents and land acquisition, delayed
payments to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation.
Another year-s delay has been added lately by the postponement of drainage
works in both Rentang and Cirebon subprojects due to budget constraints.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 89% of the appraisal
estimate. Because of the continuing delays the Closing Date has been
postponed by two years.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The main components of the project are tertiary development on an
area of 100,000 ha served by irrigation systems rehabilitated under previous
projects and the construction of 6,000 ha of a new irrigation system in the
Sadang area of South Sulawesi. The construction of tertiaries has progressed
well and gained such a momentum that the scope of work was increased to
115,000 ha. About 111,000 ha have been completed and the balance was expec-
ted to be completed by early 1982. The construction of North Sadang has
suffered a delay of about four years due to design revisions and late award
of contracts. Completion of the project is expected by March 1984. Dis-
bursements at the end of February 1983 were about 80% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The main components of the project are rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage I) serving an area of about 75,000 ha, including
30,000 ha of tertiary development, a pilot ground water scheme for 2,800 ha in
the Madiun-Solo area and the improvement of flood control, drainage and road
networks on 5,700 ha of coastal land in Ciujung. All of the stage I area
(75,000 ha) has been completed. Only the drainage works and road improvement
in both the Ciujung and Madiun subprojects are expected to be delayed due to
budget constraints and lack of experienced staffing. GOI has mobilized
additional engineers and foreign consultants for construction supervision



ANNEX II
- 31 -                      Page 7 of 29 pages
at Ciujung and has tapped additional sources of funds to keep the Madiun
works on schedule. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were 51% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project includes (a) rehabilitation of 8,000 ha of irrigation
system, drainage rehabilitation on 19,000 ha of the Sedeku area in Central
Java; (b) new irrigation pumping system on 3,280 ha at Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage I) in West Sumatra for transmigrants; and (c) feasibility studies of
ten small to medium irrigation projects and of the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung
(Stage II), with detailed designs. Delay in completion of the Sedeku
irrigation drainage rehabilitation by about three years continues, compared
to appraisal estimate. The Sungai Dareh-Sitiung (Stage I) construction has
progressed well. Pumps were commissioned and trial runs made. The main and
secondary canals are completed, the tertiary network is 95% completed. Land
clearing and levelling is progressing satisfactorily and is about 60% accom-
plished. Feasibility studies of ten small to medium irrigation systems have
been completed. One of these schemes is now under execution with cofinancing
from the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) assistance while detailed design of
another (about 29,000 ha) is being financed under Irrigation XVII (Loan
2119-IND). Detailed design of Sungai Dareh Sitiung Stage II (about 8,800
ha) has been completed and its construction is being financed under
Irrigation XVI (Loan 2118-IND). Disbursements at the end of February 1983
were about 87% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project includes: (a) rehabilitation and improvement of
about 34,700 ha of Kali Progo irrigation system; (b) improvement of about
19,900 ha of Way Seputih; (c) improvement and expansion of about 63,100 ha
of Way Sekampung irrigation projects; (d) studies and detailed designs of
two dams associated with (b) and (c) above; (e) studies of Dumoga and
Gumbasa irrigation projects; and (f) consulting services for the above and
also studies of two dams in the Kali Progo project area and extension of
irrigation to Bekri, West Rumbia, Way Kandis and Way Ketibung in Lampung
Province. Due to initial delays in survey and mapping of the Way Seputih/
Way Sekampung irrigation service areas, delay in deciding canal capacities
till completion of the dam studies and staff shortage during the years 1979
and 1980, implementation is behind schedule by about two years. However,
the field surveys and the dam studies have now been completed and the
staffing situation has improved. Consultants have made substantial progress
on the preparation of designs and tender documents for the project. Due to
the GOI decision to defer construction of the Batutegi dam for 3 to 4 years,
the scope of the project has been revised. Disbursements are currently



32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 8 of 29 pages
about 35% of appraisal estimate. Studies of Dumoga irrigation project were
completed and implementation of its works included in Irrigation XV (Cr.
995-IND).
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The main part of this project, the Cipamingkis irrigation sub-
project is progressing well. This will serve an area of about 7,600 ha.
Its headworks with intake structure are completed while contracts for main
and secondary canals will be completed only a little behind schedule.
Tertiary design and construction are behind schedule but the project is
currently estimated to be completed by June 1984, a delay of 18 months as
compared to appraisal estimate. Feasibility studies including detailed
designs of a new Glapan barrage and mid-Lusi river diversion irrigation
system are underway. These replace the preconstruction work previously
planned for the Jragung dam, which is now being deferred. The Hydrological
measurement program is expected to be completed with a delay of about 18
months and will be completed in early 1983. Disbursements were about 58% of
the appraisal estimate at the end of February 1983.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The project includes: tertiary development on about 186,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur Irrigation System, W. Java; drainage improvement in the
Cisedane irrigation area including upgrading of roads in W. Java; and
studies of drainage and flood control in Pemali-Comal and Sadang irrigation
areas; tidal and swamp lands development for about 350,000 ha in the Lalang
and Mesuji areas of S. Sumatra, and the Sebangau area in Kalimantan; and
detailed designs for reclamation of about 110,000 ha of swamp land in Karang
Agung of S. Sumatra. The area of tertiary development has been increased
to 205,800 ha. All the civil works contracts of Cisedane drainage and roads
improvement are awarded, currently estimated to be completed by March 1985,
a delay of a year over appraisal estimate. All studies are completed.
Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 42%7 of the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $50 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The main components of the project are flood protection levees,
bank stabilization and river training works on the lower Cimanuk river,
widening of the Rambatan Channel and construction of a hydraulic control
structure at Bangkir, the Cimanuk river estuary study and the flood control
operating and flood forecasting study. Good progress has been made on the



- 33 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 29 pages
civil works and various studies. Civil works are expected to be completed
by mid-1984. Disbursements at the end of February 1983 were about 43% of
the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1811   Fourteenth Irrigation:  $116 Million Loan of April 3, 1980;
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1986
The main components of the project are construction and rehabili-
tation of drainage and flood protection works on the Serang River to reduce
flooding of some 61,000 ha of farm land, rehabilitation of the Madiun
Irrigation System (Stage II) serving about a 65,000 ha area; and tertiary
development serving a 120,000 ha area in the Pemali-Comal and Pekalen
Sampean subprojects. Contracts for flood mitigation works for the Serang
River have been awarded after one and a half year-s delay because of weak
management and slow land acquisition. Works in the Madiun area and the
tertiary development are progressing well ahead of schedule. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 52% of appraisal estimate.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation: $45 Million Credit of April 3, 1980
Effective Date: July 3, 1980; Closing Date: January 31, 1985
The project includes: completion of the Kosinggolan Irrigation
System on about 5,000 ha and construction of the new Toraut Irrigation
system for 6,600 ha; catchment protection and establishing a nature reserve
on an area of about 100,000 ha; institutional support through consultancy
services and training; and studies and investigations of four irrigation
systems. Construction of the Toraut headworks and the first 2 km of the
main canal which commenced in January 1981 is progressing satisfactorily.
Offices, staff houses, and a rest house at Menado have been completed. The
award of two ICB contracts is behind schedule and project completion may be
delayed to June 1985 (compared to mid-1984 in the appraisal estimate). With
Bank agreement, GOI has expanded the nature reserve into a "Dumoga-Bone
National Park" master plan covering an area of about 270,000 ha. Construc-
tion of the park headquarters building has commenced and is expected to be
completed by June 1983. Four studies included in the project have been
substantially concluded and some additional work was recently added.
Institutional support programs will continue up to June 1984. Disbursements
at the end of February 1983 were about 55% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1958 Swamp Reclamation: $22 Million Loan of March 31, 1981;
Effective Date: July 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project includes reclamation of 9,000 ha of Karang Agung swamp
area in South Sumatra province, construction of canals, land clearance,
construction of 3,200 settlers houses with community facilities for trans-
migrants from Java and Bali and studies for future swamp development,
upgrading of existing swamp development area and ecological studies of swamp
development. A civil works contract (ICB) for construction of canals, for



- 34 -                     ANNEX II
Page 10 of 29 pages
about $4.5 million, was awarded on January 22, 1982. Consultants for
construction supervision were assigned in April 1982. Efforts are being
made to improve both the progress for the work as well as coordination
between the implementing agencies.
Loan No. 2118  Sixteenth Irrigation:  $37 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987.
The project will complete construction of the Sitiung Irrigation
System (Stage II) in Sumatra to serve about 7,600 ha of transmigrant and local
farmer lands; improvement of management information systems of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD); training and support for water
users and their associations; expansion of DGWRD's basic hydrological data
network; and studies for development of the Cisanggarung River Basin and
detailed design of the Jatigede Dam.
Loan No. 2119 Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java Province): $70 Million Loan
of April 5, 1982; Effective Date: December 14, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1988.
This is the first irrigation project supported by the Bank to be
concentrated in a single province and implemented through a provincial irriga-
tion service. It will rehabilitate existing surface irrigation systems
serving about 50,000 ha; develop groundwater irrigation systems to serve about
13,000 ha; upgrade operation and maintenance for about 140,000 ha of irriga-
tion systems already rehabilitated; and strengthen the East Java Provincial
Irrigation Service.
Other Agricultural Projects
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Given shortages in available land, in June 1982, the settlement
component was reduced from 30,000 families to 20,000 families and funds were
reallocated for site selection and evaluation for the GOI transmigration
program as a whole. Land has now been identified for about 16,000 families
under this project. About 1,100 families have been settled and 2,400 addi-
tional families should be settled by mid-1983. Improved extension and
support are required to ensure adequate food crop yields and a plan for the
introduction of tree crops has been requested from the GOI. Disbursements
as of February 1983 were 57% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This is the first of a series now consisting of seven projects
developing treecrops for smallholders, supported by Government Nucleus Estate



- 35 -                      ANNEX II
Page 11 of 29 pages
Companies. Planting programs for 7,600 ha of rubber at Tebenan and for
rehabilitation of 18,000 ha of estate rubber have been completed but develop-
ment for smallholders at Alue le Merah (only 4,700 ha out of a 7,000 ha pro-
gram completed) is well behind schedule. Three rubber factories and one palm
oil mill have been constructed. Difficulties have occured in quality of
rubber plantings, and currently with some trees now at maturity, attention
needs to be given to improving tapping practice and rubber processing.
Disbursements at December 31, 1982 were 62% of appraisal estimates and 92% of
the latest revised estimate.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After a slow start, this project has substantially speeded up its
pace of implementation. New rubber planting for smallholders is now expected
to be completed in March 1983 in Jambi (3,800 ha), one year ahead of schedule,
and in 1983/84 in Riau (11,400 ha) on schedule. Following earlier problems,
quality of plantings has improved. Rubber replanting at Riau (3,000 ha)
should also be completed during 1983/84 but the replanting component at Jambi
(4,500 ha) has not been successful. The 3,500 ha Nucleus Rubber Estate at
Riau although currently behind schedule is expected to be completed in time.
More attention needs to be given to development of smallholders food crops.
An extension of closing date to December 31, 1985, will probably be needed to
accommodate an alternative program to the replanting at Jambi. Disbursements
at end of December 1982 were 33% of the appraisal estimate but are expected to
improve in coming months.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III:  $99 Million Loan of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
All implementing agencies have made good progress. Although some
components are slightly behind schedule, the overall project is on or slightly
ahead of schedule. About 7,500 ha of rubber have been planted, half of which
is for smallholders. About 420 settler houses are occupied and garden lots
established. In 1982, one of the estates, PTP I, was upgraded to take over
responsibility for completing the Alue Iemerah smallholder component under NES
I (1499-IND). Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about 53% of
appraisal estimate, and 90% of the latest revised estimates.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV:  $42 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980:  Effective Date:  August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Smallholder oil palm planting is on schedule and of excellent
quality. Village layout, settler house construction, and road development
are a little behind schedule due to problems of land availability. However,
these problems are being actively addressed by the implementing estate
(PTP X) and the Project Coordinating Committee, and project completion is
likely by target date. Disbursements at the end of December 1982 were about
53% of appraisal estimate, and 64% of latest revised estimates.



- 36 -                     ANNEX II
Page 12 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2007   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder V:  $161 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 21, 1981;
Closing date: June 30, 1988
The project would develop about 53,000 ha of tree crops (rubber,
oil palm, coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, West
Kalimantan and Bengkulu provinces with public sector estates as implementing
agents. The project has made a good start except that smallholder coconut
development at Cimerak, West Java (3,000 ha) is behind schedule due to land
use agreements needing to be finalized. The component to expand the Estates
Training Institute at Yogyakarta and to add another campus at Medan is
proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2126   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder VI:  S68.1 Million Loan of
April 23, 1982; Effective Date: July 23, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
The project will assist the GOIs nucleus estates and smallholders
development program by establishing 28,200 ha of tree crops (rubber and
coconuts), food crops and house gardens in West Java, Bengkulu and Maluku
provinces with public sector estates as implementing agents. The project
implementing agencies PNP XXVIII and PTP XII face problems regarding local
cost financing of smallholder development, management problems and severe
labor shortage problems in Seram. PTP XII has however completed a difficult
26 km main access road over a short period. PNP XXVIII's project implemen-
tation is seriously delayed by lack of experienced senior and middle manage-
ment, technical and administrative staff, labor cooperation and coordination
with local government. GOI has been requested to urgently review this situa-
tion with a view to strengthening management, relieve the labor constraint and
improve local government's commitment to the project. PTP XXIII has made an
excellent effort to overcome the land acquisition problems. Cooperation with
local government and the local population is good. Rubber planting commenced
in 1982 and standards attained are satisfactory. Planning and training
programs for technical and administrative staff are well in hand and no
serious problems are foreseen.
Loan No. 2232   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII:  $154.6 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983, Effective Date: February 18, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1989
The project would assist the GOI's nucleus estates and smallhold-
ers (NES) development program by establishing about 59,000 ha of tree crops
(rubber and oil palm), food crops and house gardens in East and West
Kalimantan and South Sulawesi provinces. It would also support the institu-
tional strengthening of the Directorate General of Estates and other agencies
associated with tree crop development, marketing programs for smallholders,
and provide funds for start-up activities of future NES projects.



ANNEX II
- 37 -                     Page 13 of 29 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Project implementation continues in a generally satisfactory manner
with 17,300 ha of rubber planting (9% of appraisal target to that date)
undertaken by the end of December 1982. At that time, disbursements had
reached $9.8 million (85%) against an estimated $11.5 million. Although the
project currently faces no major problems, continuing tardy GOI budget
releases could soon become a critical factor. In order to ensure effective
continuing operations, project management is to strengthen Project Management
Units in some areas, undertake timely recruitment and training of staff at all
levels and produce appropriate training and extension manuals. Bank Rakyat
Indonesia and Agraria have been requested to play a more active role in the
land titling and loan conversion process. Revised versions of four studies
under the project are now available and preparation of the proposed Second
Smallholder Rubber Development Project is nearing completion.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development:  $46 Million Loan of August
25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Although the planting programs of tall and hybrid coconuts under the
project seem reasonably on target, the results being achieved are generally
not satisfactory. Problems relate to shortcoming in project management at
Head Office, Provincial Offices (POs) and Coconut Working Centers (CWCs)
regarding the selection of suitable planting areas and participating small-
holders, technical control and supervision of planting and maintenance stan-
dards, timely supply of seednuts and of essential inputs, and slow release of
project funds, and thus a slow rate of withdrawal application and disburse-
ments. At end-December 1982, 8,102 ha of hybrid coconuts (89% of appraisal
target to that date) and 7,770 ha of tall coconuts (155% of appraisal target)
had been planted while rehabilitation of 5,050 ha of tall coconuts (74% of
appraisal target) had been undertaken. An in-depth review is being undertaken
by the Resident Mission to ascertain progress already made by GOI in over-
coming management and technical shortcomings at Head Office, Provincial
Offices and Coconut Working Centers, and to pinpoint any necessary additional
measures. To improve control of field operations, some restructuring of
management is required as well as reduction and rationalization of the project
area. GOI agrees in principle with these recommendations. Disbursements had
reached $4.2 million (47%) against an estimated $9.0 million.



- 38 -                      ANNEX II
Page 14 of 29 pages
Agriculture Support Services
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: Jul' 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Good progress continues to be made with the construction program
and the bulk of the Rural Extension Centers programmed under the project are
expected to be completed in 1983. Staff recruitment has improved overall
but there are still shortages in some Provinces and the problem of shortage
of motor cycles for field staff continues. Active steps are being taken to
improve extension in non-rice crops. Interest in working towards a unified
extension service continues to be promoted. The project is making satis-
factory progress.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1014) Million Credit of May 16, 1980; Effective Date: July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the
overall institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD) for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, forestry and estate crops other than rubber and
industrial crops. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) is functioning
efficiently. Steady progress being made in civil works program although
there are indications that this may slow down due to budgetary constraints.
The fellowship program has fallen behind schedule but is likely to gain
momentum following the production of a Manpower Development Plan which is
nearing finalization. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 2066   Second Seeds : $15 Million Loan of January 15, 1982;
Effective Date: March 11, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1989
This project provides for: establishment of 18 medium Seed
Processing Centers (SPCs) for the National Seed Corporation, P. T. Pertani
and Cooperatives; six small SPCs for Cooperatives; additional equipment and
facilities for five Food Crops Research Institutes (FCRIs), Provincial Seed
Farms and Seed Control and Certification Services; establishment of a
diploma course on seed technology at the Bogor Agricultural Institute; and
in-service training, technical assistance and studies for strengthening the
institutions operating in the seed subsector. Project implementation has
started slowly because the project implementing agencies are still reviewing
administrative and working procedures. Preparation of tender documents for
the procurement of equipment for seed is in hand. Participating agencies
show willingness to cooperate and project implementation is expected to
pick-up shortly.



_39                        ANNEX II
Page 15 of 29 pages
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The improving trend in overall project performance has continued.
Activity targets are now being substantially met with the exception of the
Small Scale Industries (SSI) and Village Health Components. The SSI is
being vigorously monitored by the new Provincial Inspector for Industries
especially with respect to technical assistance which is designed to
complement the SSI credit program. The School Health Program is progressing
well and is now being complemented by the Village Kader Health program.
Severe drought has delayed the Water Supplies construction due to shortage
of water. The rigidity of GOI procurement regulations which do not permit
forward purchase of cement also contribute to the delay in construction of
tanks. The Roads Program is close to target achievement although high costs
are still a cause for concern.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project provides technical assistance to strengthen GOIs
small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, and credit assistance to small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) in West Sumatra and East and Central Java which account
for about a third of countrywide KIK/KMKP loan approvals. Satisfactory
experience with this first Bank-assisted pilot project has led to a
nationwide SSE development project which is supported by the Second Small
Enterprise Development Project (Loan 2011-IND). The credit component is
fully disbursed, and the remaining balance of the technical assistance
component amounting to $9.0 million is financing ongoing technical
assistance under Loan 2011-IND (SEDP II).
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 small-
holders, primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and
technical assistance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia for program development,
training in term lending, credit procedures and accounting and management
information systems. Due primarily to delays in obtaining consultancy
services, the project is about nine months behind schedule. Following
extension of the project to cover additional provinces and commodities, it
is rapidly catching up. The project has been very successful in achieving
objectives.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                    Page 16 of 29 pages
Loan N4o. 2011   Second Small Erterprise Development:  $106 Million Loan of
June 26, 1981; Effective Date: October 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31,1984
From the three regions covered under SEDP I the project has
expanded to cover all 27 regions in Indonesia where the Small Investment
(KIK)/Small Permanent Working Capital Credit (KMKP) program is being
implemented. The Bank-financed portion of the credit component of SEDP II
was fully committed as of December 31, 1982, rapid expansion of lending
under the project, however, seems to have been accompanied by a slight
increase in arrears from 21%o to 22% of outstanding loans. Bank Indonesia
(BI) and handling banks are aware of this problem and have recently
introduced a new reporting system to facilitate better collection and more
up-to-date information. BI's progress in implementing the technical
assistance components is also generally good, with the exception of the
Regional Development Bank upgrading. This latter component is still beset
with problems (lack of Regional Development Bank (RDB) counterpart staff,
delays in obtaining operational data, weak consultant teams from BAPINDO).
BI is evaluating consultant performance in the upgrading of UDBs.  The
Ministry of Industry has finally started implementing the Technical Services
component with the recruitment of two consultants. As the entry of
consultants was delayed, disbursement of loan proceeds is also delayed.
EDUCATION
Credit NIo. 369 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices, and assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The project is making
good progress and implementation is on schedule without a cost overrun. The
TEDC building and four of the six polytechnics have been completed and
construction of the remaining two is near completion. Equipment contracts
for the TEDC and the six polytechnics have been awarded and over 70% of
equipment ordered has been delivered. The expert services and fellowship
programs are progressing satisfactorily. The accountancy component is also
making good progress. Two of the five study contracts are still to be
awarded. Operation has commenced in all six polytechnics since September
1932 but at 60% of full capacity. Disbursements at the end of February 1933
were over 100% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The loan is helping to finance physical facilities and related
technical assistance for: (a) two faculties of technology at existing



ANNEX II
- 41 -                    Page 17 of 29 pages
teacher training colleges and four new centralized workshops for technical
training for the Ministry of Education and Culture (MTEC); (b) 17 new
vocational training centers, an existing instructor training center and 25
mobile training units for the Ministry of Manpower (MOM); and (c) new
premises for the National Institute of Administration (LAN), the country-s
principal civil service training institution. The completed MEC subproject
is problem-free and facilities are operating satisfactorily. The MOM
subproject has made some progress but is about two and a half years behind
schedule with a 16% cost overrun. Problems faced include poor equipment
procurement management, shortage of funds, low utilization of completed
facilities, poor quality of training (less than 50% of trainees placed in
employment), and partial compliance on covenants. The LAN component has
made no progress for three years and is now about three and a half years
behind schedule, mainly due to the default of the civil works contractor for
price escalation disputes with GOI. After retendering, a new contract has
been approved recently and construction of the remaining unfinished portion
of the building is expected to be completed by mid-1984. A second extension
of the Closing Date to June 30, 1984 has been approved. Disbursements at
the end of February 1983 were about 88% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Approximately 88% of
the civil works program has been completed. Phase I is complete and 90% of
the construction in Phase II is finished. All furniture has been procured
and installed; all equipment has either been procured and delivered, or
contracts awarded and deliveries would be completed before closing date.
Training courses for teachers and staff of SPGs and IKIPs have been comple-
ted. A total of 6,100 persons have been trained. Project costs at comple-
tion are expected to result in $2 million savings. Book procurement has
been delayed due to ministerial procurement review procedures. This delay
is expected to result in a need to extend the closing date by one year.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover:
civil works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial cen-
ters, instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance.
Construction of the six Balai PENMAS (directorates for out-of-school educa-
tion) centers, has been completed. All furniture and equipment are already
on site. About 90% of the staff training program is meeting appraisal
targets and production and distribution of pretested learning materials is



- 42 -                     ANNEX II
Page 18 of 29 pages
accelerating. The technical assistance program is on schedule; local staff
have replaced foreign consultants. As of October 1982 estimated cumulative
disbursements had reached a total of $10.1 million or 67% of appraisal
estimates. Of the remaining loan funds it is estimated that US,5.45 million
will be disbursed by June 30, 1983, the project closing date. Approximately
$254,000 from unallocated category remains uncommitted.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the se:ond phase of GOI's long-term
strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle-level agricultural
manpower. Good progress continues to be made. Disbursements at the end of
February 1983 were 68% of the loan amount. The overall progress of the
fellowships program has been good. The regular program and the short course
program would be completed in December 1983 and the Ph.D. program at the
University of Sam Houston, Texas, is expected to be completed in June 1985.
Progress in achieving educational objectives is generally satisfactory. In
December 1982 the Bank agreed to the GOI's request to reallocate $4.2 mil-
lion for preparatory studies and design work for the proposed Third
Agricultural Training Project, and $2.8 million for improvement of Ketindam
In-service Teacher Training Center (ISTC), additional boarding facilities at
17 existing ISTCs and upgrading the Ciawi ISTC.
Loan No. 1904   University Development:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: January 22, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term university develop-
ment program. Its main objectives are to increase the output of high level
manpower and improve the quality of university education in the fields of
engineering, science, agriculture, and economics (including business admin-
istration and accountancy), as well as strengthen the management of the
overall university system. The additional land required for the University
of Gadjah Mada and the new site for the University of Andalas have heen
acquired. The campus master plan for the University of Indonesia (UI) has
been completed and the Universities of Gadjah Mada and Andalas are expected
to complete theirs by early 1983. The implementation of technical assist-
ance provisions is about 22 months behind appraisal schedule. Pending the
appointment of MUCIA to handle the fellowship program, the Directorate
General of Higher Education has administered overseas fellowships, which as
of December 31, 1982, totalled about 90 staff in the UK, USA, Australia,
Belgium, Thailand and the Philippines. Training of master trainers in
University Management and textbook editors is in progress in the UK; domes-
tic training in University Management is scheduled to start in April 1983
after the return of master trainers. Work is in progress for establishing a
Management Information System in the DGHE and in each project university.
Plans are being finalized for the policy study on student admissions.
Disbursements as of December 1982 were 40% of the appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
- 43 -                    Page 19 of 31 pages
Loan No. 2101   Second Teacher Training:  $80 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: May 24, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
The project would (a) construct and equip 60 preservice primary
primary teacher training schools (SPG) and 10 primary sports teacher train-
ing schools (SGO); (b) construct and equip 11 secondary teacher training
colleges (IKIP); (c) improve and expand teacher training colleges for
special education (SGPLB); (d) improve and expand inservice teacher training
facilities (PPPG and BPG); and (e) establish a Center for Educational Adminis-
tration (CEA).
Loan No. 2102   Second Textbook:  $25 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: June 14, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will support the establishment of the Integrated Text-
book Project (ITP), a permanent organization to plan and manage textbook
development activities; a Center for Curriculum Development (CCD), which
would develop improved curricula for primary and secondary schools, and an
improved national distribution system for all textbooks for primary and
secondary schools. The implementation of the project is progressing satis-
factorily. The site of ITP/CCD office building has been acquired. Selec-
tion and acquisition of sites for regional warehouses and depots is in
progress. Consulting architects and engineers have been appointed. Staff
appointments at ITP are slightly behind schedule. Efforts are underway to
implement a program of overseas training of staff contract managerial
services for providing consultants and arranging foreign and local training
programs.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Construction work on the project has reached its final stage. The
200 MW Unit No. 4 was synchronized on November 26, 1981 and has been in com-
mercial operation since March 1982. Unit No. 5 went into commercial operation
in August 1982. The associated studies have been completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978
($15 million cancelled November 30, 1980); Effective Date:
June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All contracts were awarded at highly competitive costs with a sub-
stantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
original loan of $109 million has been cancelled. The Bank also agreed to
the inclusion of the following additional studies in the scope of the



ANNEX II
- 44 -                      Page 20 of 29 pages
project: (a) Sunda Strait submarine cable feasibility; (b) optimization of
location of future thermal plants: (c) power sector management information
system design. Construction work at the site has been delayed by about 21
months. Commercial operation of the 200 MW generating unit is expected
early in 1984. Construction of the associated transmission lines is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The feasibility study of the East Java coal-fired
thermal power station site has been completed and a site has been selected.
Contracts for the studies (a), (b) and (c) mentioned above have been signed,
and woik -s progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Pbwer:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979; Effective
Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project encountered a number of problems and slipped nearly
eleven months behind schedule by September 1981. However, progress since
then has been satisfactory and the commissioning date for Unit No. 1
continues to be October 1984. Disbursements, though much lower than the
appraisal estimates, are in line with the revised projections prepared in
July 1981. The project cost is expected to remain within the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Pbwer:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980; Effective
Date:  October 24, 1980;  Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
This project is experiencing delays. However, the commissioning
date of the second unit of Suralaya is now expected to be June 1985, i.e.
six months behind schedule. The EHV project is delayed by almost one year
due to delay in finalizing contract awards. All major contracts about 12-18
months behind SAR schedule, have been awarded and construction work has
commenced. The commissioning of the lines is currently scheduled in
December 1984.
Loan No. 1950   Tenth Power:  $250 Million Loan of March 6, 1981;
Effective Date: April 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
All major contracts for construction and installation of generat-
ing equipment required for the Saguling hydroelectric project have been
placed with an estimated saving in total project costs of about $99 million.
Construction work started at the main dam site in August 1981, and encoun-
tered problems in regard to timely completion of diversion tunnels.
However, the river diversion was accomplished in January 1983.  The contruc-
tion program has been modified to ensure that original dam construction
targets are met.  Other project subcomponents are progressing with about
6 months delays.



- 45 -                    ANNEX II
Page 21 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2056   Eleventh Power:  $170 Million Loan of
November 16, 1981; Effective Date: April 15, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts worth about $119 million have already been evaluated and approved by
the Bank. PLN has already issued another invitation to bid for the balance
of the distribution equipment estimated at $44 million.
Loan No. 2079   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and Transportation:
$185 Million Loan of January 22, 1982; Effective Date:
May 25, 1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1987
Project implementation has commenced. There are some delays in
signing of main nine contracts. Out of a total of eight such contracts,
five have already been signed and the remaining three are in final stages.
The consultants' performance is satisfactory. Soil investigation and
geological work is ongoing at the mine site. Although the turnkey contract
for the Tarahan terminal was signed it is still not effective. The Tarahan
Terminal remains on the project critical path and the best estimate is that
the first coal can be shipped to Suralaya by April 1985 which implies an
8-month delay. During the initial start-up there were moderate problems in
respect to project management and concerns arose with respect to the
procedure for procurement of packages not financed by the Bank. These
matters received close attention from the Bank missions and the issue has
now been resolved. Indonesia's constrained budget situation is likely to
result in a substantial shortfall of funds for this project in FY83/84 and
discussions with GOI are underway to determine how project construction can
be rephased without a substantial loss of anticipated benefits.
Loan No. 2153   Coal Exploration Engineering:  $25 Million Loan of June 14,
1982; Effective Date: March 1, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project will evaluate coal reserves and assess the viability
of specific coal deposits in South and West Sumatra and other promising
areas in Indonesia. The project will be aimed at providing GOI and its
agencies with a coal reserve inventory of its major coal bearing areas and
feasibility/prefeasibility studies of attractive deposits, thus enabling
it to establish investment priorities and define policies for its short,
medium- and long-term strategy for coal production and coal use.
Loan No. 2214   Twelfth Power Project:  $300 Million Loan of December 27,
1982; Effective Date: March 29, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1988.
Implementation of the project is proceeding on schedule. Con-
tracts valued at $36 million have already been approved by the Bank. PLN
has already issued bid invitation for Kamojang 2 x 55 MW units and bids



- 46                     ANNEX II
Page 22 of 29 pages
are due to open on May 2, 1983. PLN is planning to issue another bid invi-
tation in May 1983 for the mini-hydro equipments. PLN has also issued bid
invitations for Suralaya Unit 3 boiler and turbine generator and bids are
due to open in June 1983.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Industry
Loan No. 2199   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering:  $5.5 Million
Loan of November 18, 1982; Effective Date: Not yet
effective; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
The project would help finance the cost of: (i) basic engineer-
ing, procurement assistance including the preparation of tender documents,
prequalification, and bid evaluation for the Central Java pulp and paper
project; (ii) technical assistance in finalizing the wood supply arrange-
ments for the Central Java project; (iii) training of the project staff; and
(iv) a pulp and paper subsector study which would provide the basis for the
restructuring of the industry.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
BAPINDO has made good progress in committing proceeds of the Bank
loan and in implementing its General Improvement Program launched in 1981.
Judged on the basis of annual growth in lending operations (147% in 1981
compared with 89% in 1980) it appears the effect of major changes in
organizational structure has been positive, but there is still some scope
for improvements in term lending procedures and staff capbility to appraise
and supervise larger, more complex projects. Term lending in local and
foreign currency reached Rp 559 billion ($800 million) in 1982 or 43% over
1981.  Strong investment demand from the industrial sector in 1982 underlies
this sharp expansion. Full disbursement by the closing date of September
1983 is expected.



- 47                     ANNEX II
Page 23 of 29 pages
POPULATION AND HEALTH
Population
Loan No. 1472 Second Population: $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
($3.8 Million cancelled February 25, 1983); Effective
Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30, 1984
Progress on this project is generally satisfactory. About 90% of
original project activities have been completed. The mobile service units
provided under the project are making a significant contribution to the
recruitment of contraceptive acceptors. Training and population education
are substantially completed. The research components -the contraceptive raw
materials study is about 90% complete, and the community incentive scheme is
about 50% complete and both components should be satisfactorily completed
before the revised closing date of April 30, 1984. As of February 1983,
disbursements totalled $13.3 million, or 54%.
Loan No. 1869 Third Population: $35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Progress on this project improved significantly during the second
half of 1982, largely due to increased attention to project implementation,
particularly civil works components, by project management and the addi-
tional staff assigned especially to help expedite this work. Population
education has made some encouraging progress, as funds have been released to
the provinces for expenditure on teacher training activities and detailed
guidelines for implementation of population education activities have been
issued by NFPCB. Contracts for procurement of audio-visual equipment have
been awarded. The training of nurses, midwives, traditional birth atten-
dants and health center staff has proceeded on the agreed-upon schedule.
Disbursements, however, do not yet reflect the noted upswing in project
activities.
Health
Loan No. 2235 Provincial Health; $27 Million Loan of February 18, 1983;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988
Substantial progress has been made in the initial implementation
of the project. The FY83/84 project budget of US$10.5 million and work plan
have been completed and approved by BAPPENAS. The sites for the first-year
construction program are available and the architectural consultants have
completed the preliminary drawings for two hospitals. Consultants (financed



ANNEX II
- 48 -                    Page 24 of 29 pages
by USAID) are now assisting in curriculum development and the training of
trainers in support of the project.  Arrangements for the procurement oF DDT
have been initiated and malaria consultants have already been identified and
their availability ascertained.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 898  Fifth Technical Assistance:  $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date:  September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
There still remains an uncommitted balance of about $5.0 million
under this credit. Potential studies to utilize the remaining balance have
been identified and it is likely that the closing date for the credit will
be postponed.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and M4apping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the
cartographic photographic processing, including color photo processing
equipment and printing equipment required to produce maps, are installed.
Computer equipment for resource analysis including a topographic data bank
and flatbed plotter has been installed. Various resource evaluation
activities have been undertaken using these facilities. Recruitment and
training of new staff, particularly at junior and middle level has recently
been accelerated. The new photography operation financed under the parallel
Canadian Project was delayed as a result of which the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date until December 31, 1983. The photography operation started
in July 1981 is expected to be completed by the new Closing Date.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 2120 National Fertilizer Distribution: $66 Million Loan of April 5,
1982; Effective Date: September 27, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
This project will increase agricultural production in Indonesia
by substantially expanding the capacity to distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Funds are also provided for preparation of future maritime transport pro-
jects, including master plans and detailed engineering for several ports.
The project experienced delays in its start up phase. In particular, one of



ANNEX II
- 49                       Page 25 of 29 pages
the conditions for loan effectiveness was fulfilled with considerable delay,
thus delaying project implementation by six months. However, PUSRI has
taken steps to expedite project implementation although an extension of
project completion by six months is likely. Total project costs are
estimated to increase by about 10%-15%.
Highways
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979 ($6.8 Mil-
lion cancelled June 30, 1981); Effective Date: August 28,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation, which started nearly three years ago, is
still behind schedule. The project is about 40% completed compared to 75%
scheduled. The causes for delay are: (a) the ambitious project objectives,
which translate into program-type components and numerous consultancies; (b)
organization and management problems in the provincial highway agencies; and
(c) new development guidelines of the GOI under Repelita III emphasizing the
spread of investments over a larger number of projects with reduced stand-
ards. However, work is now underway on nearly all project components, and
there is still a reasonable chance of completing the project with a total
delay of about one year. The Provincial Departments of Public Works
programs of support works were started in January 1982 with mobilization of
consultants, and after road maintenance equipment had been ordered.
$6.8 million of the loan has been cancelled due to misprocurement of road
maintenance equipment.
Loan No. 2049   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway: $85 million Loan of October 9, 1981;
Effective Date: February 9, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
The project will increase road capacity between Jakarta and
Cikampek (about 70 km to the east) by construction of a new toll road and by
improvements to the existing highway. Consultants have been selected for
construction supervision, and contract negotiations have been concluded.
Bid opening for the four sections of road works took place in late May 1982,
somewhat behind schedule. The project is about 3 months behind schedule.
Consequently, disbursements are likely to fall behind estimated disbursement
schedule, at least during the first one or two years.



- 50 -                         ANNEX II
Page 26 of 29 pages
Loan No. 2083  Rural Roads Development:  $100 Million Loan of January 22,
1982; Effective Date:  August 11, 1982.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project will improve rural road infrastructure ia selected
provinces by strengthening the capacity of the district public works
agencies, implementing an expanded program of rural roads works, and
supporting a rural road development program for a three-year period in five
Indonesian provinces. The project also contains components for training and
technical assistance.  Construction of some workshops has begun.  Contracts
for all works equipment have been awarded. Progress under the project is
hampered by inadequate organizational arrangements and shortages of qualified
staff. Consequently disbursements have fallen behind appraisal estimates.
The next supervision mission will review with GOI actions required to
improve the rate of progress.
Marine Transport
Loan 130. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date:  October 8, 1976; Closing lDte:
June 30, 1983
The project is part of the first phase of the Cbvernment s Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. All funds for ship
procurement ($48. 0 million) have been disbursed and the balance of funds for
technical assistance ($6.0 million) have been disbursed or allocated. It is
expected that all funds will be disbursed by loan closing date. The project
is essentially completed.
Po rts
Loan No. 1337    Tanjung Priok Port:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works under the project have been successfully comple-
ted. All of the equipment has been procured and installed and is fully
operational. As a result of the investments under the project, Tanjung
Priok Port's performance has improved dramatically. Technical assistance,
amounting to $4.7 million is being used to finance consultant services for
preparation of the proposed Maritime Sector Development Program. The loan
is expected to close by June 30, 1983.



- 51 -                     ANNEX II
Page 27 of 29 pages
TOURISM
Credit No. 479   Bali Tourism:  $16 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
($1.4 million cancelled October 31, 1982); Effective
Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Infrastructure work at Nusa Dua has been substantially completed.
The access road to Nusa Dua from the airport and the Denpassar bypass road
were completed and opened for traffic in December 1980. The hotel training
school was completed in July 1979 and has been in operation since then. The
construction of a first hotel (450 rooms) by Garuda at Nusa Dua is progress-
ing well with first phase completed in December 1982. Negotiations have
been concluded with Club Med for a hotel investment with the Bali Tourism
Development Corporation (BTDC) equity participation of $0.4 million. Out of
the total credit of $16.0 million, $1.4 million has been cancelled but
disbursements will continue up to December 31, 1983 against BTDC commitment
of $0.4 million for Club Med.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at providing basic infrastructural facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to
about 3,000 ha of densely populated slum areas (kampungs) in Jakarta and
374 ha in Surabaya. The physical program has been completed with a coverage
of about 3,434 ha kampungs in Jakarta and 441 ha in Surabaya. Supplementary
technical assistance studies related to future project preparation are
currently in progress.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project extends the slum (kampung) improvement programs (KIP)
under the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND) in the cities of
Jakarta (750 ha) and Surabaya (580 ha), and also provides for similar basic
infrastructural facilities in three additional cities -- Ujung Pandang (375
ha), Semarang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha) -- with the KIP coverage in
each city ranging between 15 to 37% of total kampung areas to be upgraded.
Also included in the project is a comprehensive solid waste management
program (SWIP) in Jakarta, and Surabaya and macro-drainage improvements in
Surabaya. The KIP component is nearing completion in all cities with its
actual coverage exceeding the target levels in Jakarta and Surabaya. SWIP



- 52 -                    ANNEX II
Page 28 of 29 pages
implementation is progressing well in Surabaya but has just started in
Jakarta due to earlier start-up delays in pilot testing. The Surabaya
drainage component which was beset with land acquisition problems (for canal
dredging schemes) is now progressing satisfactorily. The overall project is
expected to be implemented within the appraisal projected date of December
31, 1984. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 65% of
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1972    Fourth Urban Development:  $43 Million Loan of
May 8, 1981; Effective Date: September 9, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986.
The project further expands Bank's assistance to GOI's slum impro-
vement programs (KIP) under the earlier urban projects to six nationwide
provincial capital cities with a total target KIP area of 2,000 ha and with
a coverage in each city representing about 15% to 33% of total KIP area to be
upgraded. Sites and sevices schemes, aimed at providing affordable core
housing units to the low-income population, will be developed for a total of
about 11,000 plots in some six to seven cities. Sectoral programs compris-
ing solid waste improvement and improved water supply, are also included in
one of the project cities. A national urban mapping program covering
125 cities will be undertaken providing base data for future city planning,
land registration and valuation programs. The development of the housing
and mortgage financing institutions is a prominent feature of the project.
Technical assistance for project management, training and feasibility
studies to various urban authorities and agencies will be provided. The
sites and services program is proceeding satifactorily. The start-up delays
in the implementation of the KIP programs have been overcome and the pro-
gress of these programs has significantly improved with the consultants
appointments. All technical assistance programs are proceeding satisfac-
torily. Disbursements at the end of March 1983 were about 33% of appraisal
estimate.
WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project expands and improves existing water supply and distri-
bution systems in the cities of Tangerang and Surabaya (both in Java),
Jember (Sumatra), Pare-Pare (Sulawesi) and Ambon (Moluku), and provides for
the construction of new systems in Klaten and Purwakarta (both in Java).
The total increase in raw water yield in the cities as a result of the
project is projected at 1,770 lit/sec and the total installation of
transmission and distribution mains will amount to about 375 kms with house



- 53 -                      ANNEX II
Page 29 of 29 pages
connections targetted at a total of 40,000 in the project cities. The
project is also aimed at establishing water enterprises (WEs) in the project
cities and strengthening the skills of WE's staff, as well as the Cipta
Karya (Housing and Urban Development) staff, in the areas of administratior:,
financial and operational performance of the enterprises. After consider-
able delays (up to 18 months) the award of most of the International
Competitive Bidding procurement contracts for the supply of pipes and
materials is now complete and deliveries are in progress. The construction
of the civil works in the project cities is also underway. The organiza-
tional and management training for the WEs has been underway since September
1981 and is proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements at the end of March
1983 were about 28% of appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 2236    Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation; $22.4 Million Loan
of February 18, 1983; Effective Date: Not yet effective:
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project is the first step in developing a sewerage system in
Jakarta and complements the public health measures carried out under
previous Bank-assisted urban development projects. Its principal objectives
are to (a) improve environmental conditions and public health, (b) establish
an institution and sound financial policies for the operation and management
of the Jakarta sewerage system and (c) demonstrate the feasibility of
appropriate low-cost technologies. The project covers sewerage and sanita-
tion improvements including (a) a basic water-borne sewerage system;
(b) drainage improvements; (c) sanitation improvements; (d) staff training
and fellowships; and (e) consulting services for project implementation and
for technical institutional and financial studies and the preparation of
future projects. Steps have been taken to establish the appropriate
institutional arrangements for project implementation, terms of reference
for the engagement of consultants have been agreed, and steps have been
taken for procurement by ICB of pipes.



- 54 -                             ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND POLYTECHNIC PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project               Eight months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project             : Project Implementa-
tion Unit for The
Polytechnic I
Project with Bank,
Unesco and consul-
tants' assistance
(c)  First Bank mission to identify the project : October 1981
(d)  Submission of loan request to the Bank        :May 1982
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission        :June 1982
(f)  Date of negotiations                          :April 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                 : August 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Startup funds were provided in the Polytechnic I Project
(Credit No. 869-IND) to enable initial planning and preparation to ensure
early implementation of the Second Polytechnic Project.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations assurances were obtained from the GOI that
it would:
(a) establish an advisory board for each new polytechnic within
six months after its opening with functions and composition
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 35);
(b) extend the scope of the feasibility study of financial and
administrative schemes related to university staff included in
the University Development Project (Ln. 1904-IND), to cover
polytechnic teachers (para. 39); and
(c) monitor and evaluate the project, including the conduct of
a mid-term review, in accordance with terms of reference and a
schedule satisfactory to the Bank (para. 40).



~$'   ~ THAI AND                       305304                                                                                        0                                           35                                                0                                                                                     34033
33   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                       -w/4   <q,>c                                                   4                              -. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES                    *--POLYTECHNIC  II PROJECT
¾                                                                                                        -~                                                                                                            . 3404.704470073070730077714n7BRUNEIs
MAA  AyK  A                                          -    .                                     RN          ;,,                                                                                                                                                   077
MALAYS A
-4~~~                                                                ~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .3105 0
*   -4   .   .      .                   4            ,3       3-0~~~HA4133A-EA500575 
A  <o'                    4-4-4-4-3      .                                                     '~~~~~~~~~AA     - (M A N I   >4A4N                                          -                                                 A. .00A74
73447.  >4.4  Ossoss,$  -,           4       4                  4     3                .3                                                                                     4    .      ..  -4-.~~~~~~~~~~~ir
8AIGkA                                                                                                                                                                                                                          T~~~~~ '3  ,ds~
>4-  ~1                                 -                                §      ,     ~3*             .40744777.    .                .4,       .            .            ...              .                                         .4-..>'>                          .5 541A A
-  -.  4-        -~~.  -b-.                                                                                                .
-,             4             ,                                                                                                                                  3.3A05'7
33.40                                    44--                                                                                                                                                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~v    
ScV37744 .0044                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         loiS200 3.  3    44
,wes,~4C7    077                       ~4                       ~        077                              '.-                                                                                                                                                                                      3I-                                                       4
3.4.05,540                            4--.            <3.53    '.  -    -~ ~~112-                                                                                                          '.                                              qo



