」


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2290 IND
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                  c9           1983, between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (herjnWaf'tr called the* Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND I)EVELOPMENT (herein--
after called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties ' to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same f orce and ef f ect as if they were fully set f orth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 'Gua"antee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinaf ter called the Gen'eral
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms dekined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "MEC" means the Ministry of Education and Culture-of
the Borrower;
(b)  "DGHE"  means   the  Directorate  General  for   Higher
Education in MEC; and
(c) "PEDC" means the Polytechnic Education Development
Center to be. established under Part B of the ProJect.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2. 01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Bor:r6w6r, -6n
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-
ment, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one'hundred
seven million four hundred thousand dollars ($107,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to


﻿-2-
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to two hundred sixty-seven thousand eight hundred
thirty dollars ($267,830).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf-of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest Period" means the six-month period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.


﻿- 3 -
(ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred     to in   (iii) (B)
herounder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv)  "Semester" means   the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.0B. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MEC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational, engineering and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish an advisory board
for each polytechnic included in Part A.1 of the Project within
six months after its respective opening. The functions and com-
position of the boards shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall extend the scope of the
feasibility study of financial and administrative schemes related
to university academic staff to be carried out under the Univer-
sity Development Project (Ln 1904-IND) to cover polytechnic
teaching staff.


﻿- 4 -
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indem-
nity shall be pqyable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower
to replace or rkpair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes-of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than
six months prior to the scheduled start of construction at each
site, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) carry
out the monitoring and evaluations of the Project including
the conduct of a mid-term review, in accordance with terms of
reference and a schedule, satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii)


﻿- 5 -
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records and documents.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, w)rks or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(e)  Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for t:he
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and


﻿-6-
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
a.,y constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public
assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such Droperty; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such subdivision,
including   gold  and   foreign  exchange   assets  held  by   any
institution performing fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause such separate accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) above for each fiscal year to be
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end c: each such year,
certified copies of the reports of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning said separate accounts, records and expenditures
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (a) cause each institution
included in the Project to be operated in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, educational, engineering and financial
practices, and with due regard to economy; (b) provide, promptly
as needed, the staffing, funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for their effective operation; and (c) make
adequate provision for the maintenance of equipment procured
under the Project.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date           .C2       9fl , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for
International Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
Jakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN JKT 45799
Jakarta                        DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By //         fc46~,~L~i
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


