Doc_mt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
RepotNo. 12435
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOWN  AGRICULWTRAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2030-SO)
OCTOBER 29, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12435
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department II
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIEN.CY EQUIVALENTS
1989                US$ I = So.Sh. 377 (Official rate in April 1989)
1990                US$ I = So.Sh. 2577 (Official rate in October 1990)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC                 Agricultural Deveiopment Corporation
AfDF                African Development Fund
ASAP                Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
CIP                 Commodity Import Program
CSBS                Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
ENC                 National Commercial Agency
CiOS                Government of Somalia
IDA                 International Development Association
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
MNP                 Ministry of National Planning
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NGO                 Non-Government Organizations
ONAT                Tractor Hire Agency
SAU                 Social Action Unit
SOMPET              National Petroleum Agency
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingtn D.C. 20433
U.SA
OfHe of O  GotoMWner
OPetallOna Evaluaftin                                                     October 29, 1993
MIEMORANDUtM TO-H iiitC-UTV13 M)RECMRS WMS  1 PRESIDW
Subject:     Project Completion Report on Somalia -
Second A-ricultua Sector Program (Credit 203O.SO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Somalia Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (ASAP). There is no Part IL
Disbursement began in August 1989. The Somali Government was overthrown in January
1991. The project was stopped in March 1991, when all IDA operations were suspended because of
civil war. Ovly 49 percent of the credit had been disbursed.
the second ASAP was a SAL in evezything but name. Closely coordinated with the Fund's
program, its key objective was achievement of balance in a liberal foreign exchange market. Hence,
it allocated foreign exchange through weekly quasi auctions. The ASAP's adjustment program also
included targets for taxes, fiscal deficit, and money supply increase. None of these targets were met
The ASAP's sector program was equally ambitious. The ruling party had introduced "scientific
socialism" following its coup d'etat in 1969. The resulting collection of public enterprises, public
marketing companies, pervasive price controls and administrative allocation of credit was to be swept
away, mostly through tne adjustment measures programmed in the second ASAP.
The PCR-more than adequate in describing the ASAP, its goals and implementation-
characterizes the project outcome as inadequate achizvement of macroeconomic reform and an
adequate achievement of structural change." This is too positive. The social action program was a
"point of light" in assisting NGOs working with the poor. But second tranche conditions were not
met. The action plans for grain marketing and land-tenure legislation never got beyond the planning
stage. The tariff reform was vitiated by substantial backsliding. The attempt to lralize and
privatize exporting (hides, bananas, frankincense and myrrh) accomplished little. Most export activity
remained in parallel markets. Banking became a scandal when the only commercial bank-a
paras atal-issued a large number of "cashier checks" without assets to cover them. It went bankrupt,
but not before it had increased the money supply by more than halE Inflation in 1989 was 300
percent.
The lesson to be drawn from this experience is an old one: the World Bank needs to assess
with care the political feasibility of adjustment projects and the absorptive capacity of domestic
institutions.
Tbe project is rated unsatisfactory and unsustainable; the impact on institutional development
was negligible. Since country conditions preclude field work, a desk audit is planned.
Attachment                                      4C      II
Tri dom   baa r*trted adsbution au may be used by eplents only In the perMrmance of thdr oficil duties.
Its content may net othawise be dicosed without World Bank auhorization.



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIJA
SECOND AGRICULTURMAL SECTOR ADJUSITMN PROGRAM
(CR.2030-0)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................R.                                                            i
EVALUATIONSUMMARY ..................., iii
PARTI EVALUATIONFROM BANK'SPERSPECIE ..                                               1
A. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND .1. 
TheFikstAdjustmentProggm (ASAP1 ..   I
Renewed Govenment Commiment to Continue Adjustment Program ..           2
StatusofDiaoguewiththe.MF.. .     3
B. SECOND AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (ASAP ) .                     .   3
Objectives ..                                                           3
Conmponents ..   3
Policy Actions Envisaged under the Program .......................  4
lmplemet on     .............................. ..o.                     5
Conditionaity.                                                          9
Procurement and Disbursement .11
C. THEDMPACT OFASAPR .12
i1troduction.12
GovenumentCommitment .13
Govenment Perbrman  and Economic Development .13
IDA Performance .15
D.LESSONSLEARNED ........................................ 16
PART U - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....                            17
PART m -STATTnICALINFORMATION .....  18
CradftData ....                                                               18
St" of Covenants ....                                                         20
StausofSewndTneConditions ....   22
Monthy CAurency Sales ....                                                    25
Comoity Aris .....  26
Training ..... 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLEnlON REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECrOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR.2030-SO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report for the Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
in Somalia, for which Credit 2030-SC in the amount of SDR 54.2 million (US$70 million equivalent)
was approved on June 1, 1989. The closing date was January 31, 1992, but the project, together
with all other IDA operations in Somalia, has been suspended since mid-March 1991. As of the date
of the last disbursement on March 7, 1991, about 49 percent of the credit had been disbursed. SDR
21.7 million was canceled because the second tranche conditions were not met. The African
Development Fund (AfDF) also provided cofinancing of FUA (US$25 million equivalent).
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculure and Environment Operations Division, Country
Department II of the Africa Regional Office. Part II, Project Review from the Borrower's
Perspective cannot be obtained because of the current political and security situation in Somalia. A
draft has been sent to the cofinancier for comment.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia on the President's Report, the Credit Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii-
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR.2030-SO)
EVAWATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Second Agriculturl Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP II) was a follow up on the fir
sectr adjusUme program. ASAP nI was first appaised in September 1987. Tlis appraisal was
suspended when the Government of Somalia (GOS) abandoned the foreign exchange auction systm
estalished under ASAP I and revalued the So.Sh. In July 1988, following a period of economic and
financial decline, the Government decided to resume the adjustment program. With technical
assistance from the Bank and the IMF, it adopted a comprehensive policy package aimed at reducing
fnancial imlances, moderating inflationary pressures, improving export competitiveness, and set the
stage for the reformulation of maconomic and structral policies in a medium-term context.
lhese were implented satisfactorily. IDA decided to proceed with the proposed ASAP II credit
since it was judged that the Government had taken ownership of major changes in macroeconomic and
sectra policy. The agricultural sector was the main focus of the Government's adjustment program
since it domind the economy of the country, acounted for nearly 60 percent of GDP, 95 percent
of exports, and about 80 percen of employment.
Objectives
2.    Ihe objectve of ASAP II was to support the Government's adjustment program and policies
with a particular focus on agriculture. The economic policy reforms and the Government's stated
strong commitment to these refms were the basis for the ASAP II credit. It was aimed at helping to
achieve and sustain economic stabilizaton; increase private sector participauon in supplying and
distributing inpus and sevices; strengthen key agricultural institutions; provide foreign exchange for
the import of much needed agriculatral and industrial inputs as well as other goods and services;
improve monitoring of impots through trade verification; aLd ameliorate the impact of adjustment
programs on vulneable groups.
Implementaion
3.    The period in which ASAP II was implemented was marked by serious polidcal turmoil and a
renewed civil war in the north. Faced with incresing challenges from opposition groups, GOS lost
control of certain territories and economic sectors to the eten th  many of the essential reform
measures could not be implemented. In January 1991, the Government was overhrown, and the
coy tossed into chaos.
4.      a i c  Perfoce. GOS established a foiiign excbange allocation system for
private sectr imports financed by donor-funded commodity assistance programs. However, a
munber of evens prevented the development of a flexible and realistic exchange rate regime. The
main reasoDg for failure were: the uncotrolled issue of "cashier's checks" by the official Commercial
and Savings Bank of Somalia (CSBS), which eventually led to Its collapse, an expansion in money



- iv -
suppiy that caused tigh inflation, and a deepening of the political crisis. The Government did not
achieve program revenue targets for FY1989. At year end, the Government collected ony about 5.3
percent of GDP in revenues, against the program target of 7 percent, due to its failure to implerent
amounced tax increases and a deterioration in tax administration. On the expenditure side, there
were large extra-budgetary expendiures. The share of the economic and social sectors in ordinary
budget expenditures also fell short of the program target. GOS and IDA we-re able to sort out
differences on the Public Investment Program, but a few disagreements remained, mainly concerning
the economic viability of rehabilitating the Mogadishu Petroleum Refinery. The Government's
performance in monetary policies was also poor. The credit -ad monetary targets agreed with the
IMP were largely overshot. Inflation on an end-yeas basis was estimated to be 300 percent for 1990.
5.    Agricultural Pice Polcy and Marketing. In January 1989, GOS enacted the necessary
legislation to implement its decontrol policy for hides and skins, frankincense and myrrh, veterinary
drugs, equipment and services. However, the over-stretched administration was not able to put in
place the machinery for licensing and control of the newly liberalized sectors and to attract private
sector participants. The effects did not begin to be felt untl 1990, but a considerable proportion of
trade flowed through informal channels. On grain marketing, an IDA supervision mission reviewed
an action plan for combining the Agricultural Development Corporaion (ADC) and National
Commercial Agency (ENC) into a new National Grain Agency, and found it acceptable. GOS also
prepared a satisfactory action pian to improve food aid management.
6.       ansportation, Insurance and Ftnanchl Services. GOS implemented its decontrol policy
in maritime ttansport, financial services and the insurance industry. In shipping and financial
services, private sector interest expanded quickly. One group was a banking license and others had
prepared well advanced plans to establish private banks.
7.    Public Sector Management. To improve policy analysis and planning in agriculture,
technical assistance was provided to the Central Statistics Department in the Ministry of National
Planning (MNP). The assistance, executed by Statistics Sweden with a matching grant from the
Swedish Government, was a contiuation of the support started in ASAP I. Local and international
training was given to local staff, but their return rate was disappointing.
8.    Land Tenure. The Ministry of Agriculture presented the Bank with an action plan for policy
and adminisive reform in irrigated lands. It outlined future policy, defined the laws which would
need to be drafted, and the timetable and substance of the consultation process. The next step was
further technical assistance from a legal expert to draft the revised land law. This was not completed
before the Government collapsed.
9.     Social Dimensions of Adjustment To alleviate the impact of adjustment on vulnerable
groups, GOS formed a SocW Action Committee comprising a wide range of Govermnent insttutions
and donor representatives. A Social Action Unit (SAU) was formed under the MNP. The unit was
to formulate policies and review proposals submitted by non-Government organizations. By the end
of 1990, the SAU had received 40 project proposals, out of which four had been completed and two
were being implemented.
Impact
10.   Increasing cvil unrest in norther Somalia and a total absence of control on credit from the
banking system created a crisis of confidence for the government in terms of its ability to control



political events and money supply during implementation of ASAP II. On the other hand initial
progress on structural change was good and there were some improvements in respect of the budget
deficit. The government's performance was therefore mixed, but the overwhelming impact of the
continued poor macroeconomic performance outweighed the very important achievements on
structural change and the budget.
Lsons Learned
11.   The lessons learned are summarized as follows:
X     Political Commitment and Constraints. The experience with most adjustment
programs is that they fail unless there is a strong commitment by the government to the
objectives of the program. The experience with ASAP II is that the lack of wider support for
commitments undertaken by the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank
was a major factor behind the poor implementation record. Efforts were later made by the
Finance Minister and the Bank to open consultations with representatives of other economic
minsries on the content of the economic program. This appeared successful, but the civil
war had spread by that time, making it impossible for the Government to carry out the
program despite its growing commitment. With hindsight, it is clear that the re-emergence of
the civil war in the norti was a major impediment to the satisfactory implementation of ASAP
a because of the constraints it placed on the budget and exports.
3     Structural Change not Sufficient without Improved Economic Policy and Political
Stabyli. The results of ASAP I can be summarized as an inadequate achievement of
macroeconomic policy reform and an adequate achievement of stuctural change in the
economy. The lesson is that the structural adjustments, while carried out in accordance with
the program, could not benefit the econmy as a whole without reform in general economic
policy and political stability. In other words the enabling environment for growth following
the structural changes was not present. For example structural changes such as decontrol of
shipping services, as well as the improvement of livestock handling facilities by other donors,
to provide incentives for livestock exporters to increase their activities had little effect while
the exchange rate regime was not conducive and there was a considerable lack of security
which increased the uncertainties for traders and also increased their costs.
*     Weak Government Institutions. A chronic problem in Somalia during the
implementation of both ASAP I and ASAP U was the weakness of the institutions of
govenment responsible for the implementation of reform. This weakness was reflected in the
pervasive inability of government institutions to implement monetary and fiscal policies, and
to take prompt follow-up action on Government decrees announcing policy changes. The
lesson is that the Bank should be cauious about assuming that government institutions are able
to implement complex policies. Strengthening of institutional capacity to implement policy
reforms should be a long-term goal of our lending program in these countries.
*     Ineffective Balance of Payyment Support. Balance of payment support, with its
associated budget support, cannot be effective if it is a substitute for a deteriorating ability of
government to mobilize domstic resources.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR203-SO)
PART I EVAWATION FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
The First Adjustment Prom  (ASAP I)
1.           Somalia is among the poorest counties in the world. At the beginning of 1980, the
cuntry was facing an economic and financial crisis dc trized by high inflation, sgaion in
production and exports, negativ domestic savings, depleted foreign exchange reservts, and growing
exutna d-btservice obligations and arrears. To address the senous economic and financial crisis,
Somalia undertook policy reform programs during 1981-1983 and 1983-1987. The reform included
adjustment of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary restrai; establishment of a free market for
foreign exchange; and significant liberalization of domestic agricultural pricing. The programs were
supported by IMP Stand-by Arangements.
2.           Ihe agricultural sector was the main focus of the Government's adjustment program
since it dominaed the economy of the country, accne for nearly 60 percent of GDP, 95 percent
of exports, and abtut 80 percent of employment In the 1980s, the Government took a number of
steps to improve the overall policy environment for agricultural production. The First Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Progm  (ASAP 1), a precusor to the second program, was approved by the Board
for IDA fiancing in June 1986. It was intended to support policy reform in the economy with a
pardcular focus on the agricultural sector, to strengthen a number of institutions in the agriculture and
planing ministries, to assist the Government to develop and enlarge participation of the private sector
in the economy including an improved supply and distribution of agricultural inputs, and to fnance
the import of inputs and other goods for the economy.
3.           The ASAP I credit (Cr. 1711) 1/, while supporting the government's policy
reforms, provided funds for a foreign exchange auction which allowed traders to bid for foreign
exchange for a wide range of imports. Under the then prevailing system, three main exchange rates
were being used: the official exchange rate, the auction mte and the free market rate. Unification of
these three exchange rates in an enhanced auction embracing most transactions was the key element of
an IMF Stand-by Arrangement and Stucual Adjustment Facility approved in June 1987. The
foreign exchange auction system was very well prepared and managed. It provided an important
source of foreign exchange available to traders at a market determined rate and in a non-
1/ The IDA credit was in the amount of SDR 26.4 million, with cofinancing from an African
Facility Credit (A20-SO) of SDR 28.7 million.



-2 -
discriminatory fashion for importing a wide range of goods. The success of the auctions encouraged
other donors to contribute funds to the auctions.
4.           However, program implementation came to an abrupt halt in September 1987 when
the Govenment canceled the auction because it considered devaluation of the So Shilling in the
auction had been too steep. The Government fixed the exchange rate at US$I = 100 So.Sh. Itis
represented a 37 percent appreciation of the So.Sh. in loca currency terms from its level at the last
auction in mid-Septembe 't97. An export retention scheme was put in place which allowed
exporters to retain 40 per.. .*t of their foreign exchange earnings. Early in 1988, following the
directives of the Party, the Government declared its intention to reintroduce price controls on a large
numbor of imported and domestically produced goods. Disbursements from ASAP I and the IMP
program were suspended and it became clear that a fundamenal reason for the devaluation of the
exchange rate in the context of the auction had been major breaches of the credit ceiling previously
agreed with the IMP. During late 1987 and the first half of 1988, impors were drsically reduced
due to a decline in external financing and the diversion of exports to the unofficial market as the real
effective exiage rate appreciated once again After the Government imposed price controls over a
wide range of goods in February 1988, inflation accelerAed and shortages of essential goods became
widespread. In addition the balance of payments came under extreme pressure and externa payments
arrears accumulated.
5.           Responding to the deterioration in the economic and financial situation, the
Government resumed the adjustment program in July 1988. The Government, with technical
assistance from the Bank and the Fund, adopted a comprehensive policy package aimed at reducing
financial imbalances, moderating inflationary pressures, improving export competitiveness, and set the
stage for the reformulation of macroeconomic and stmctual policies in a medium-term context. The
key measures taken at that time included a devaluation of the exchange rate, the lifting of price
controls, a tight fiscal stance, and a sharp increase in interest rates. The Fund mission that visited
Somalia in November 1988 found the authorities had implemented the measures contained in the
policy package and ina results were positive. The fiscal deficit was substntially lower and
inflation decelerated in the last quarter of 1988. Later that year disbursement from ASAP I was
resumed.
6.           Despite interruptions in macroeconmic policy, at completion in 1989 ASAP I had
achieved most of its objectives in respect of agricultural policy. However, since the overall
macroeconomic program was off track at various times, the expected growth and investment in the
economy did not materialize. Therefore overal the achievements of ASAP I were unsatisfcory.
Renewed Government Comnitment to Continue Adjustment Progm
7.           ASAP II was first appraised in September 1987. TIhs appraisal was suspended when
the Government abandoned the foreign exchange auction system during the appraisal and revalued the
So.Sh. Afer the Government resume the program, based on the developments described in para. 5,
it was decided to proceed with the proposed ASAP II credit since it was judged that thd Government
had taken ownership of major changes in macroeconomic and sectoral policy.
8.           As indicated above, the Government changed considerably its approach towards
development policy around mid-1988. The policy package adopted in July 1988 included strong
actions on the exchange rate, foreign exchange allocation system, ntere restate sre, new
expenditure and revenue targets, and commimen  to make suctur changes in industry and



-3 -
agriculture. In January 1989, the Government announced new and more sweeping reforms aimed at
the removal of remaining goverment monopolies in trade and services. Liberalization policies with
respect to trade in hides and skins, frankincense and myrrh, removal of restrictions on the importation
of veterinay drugs, and removal of monopolies on banking, insurance and maritime transportation
were on the agenda for policy dialogue between the Government and IDA. The Government had
demonstrated its commitment to policy change and this paved the way for firther deepening of the
reform process.
Stats of Diloge with the IMF
9.           Somalia's adjustment programs were supported by IMF Stand-by Arrangements
initiated In early 1985. A new 20-month Stand-by Arrangement was approved by IMF on June 29,
1987 for SDR 33.15 million. Under this stand-by arrangement, only the initial purchase of SDR 5.53
million was made. Due to acumulation of arrears to the Fund, Somalia was declared ineligible to
use the general resources of the Fund on May 6, 1988.
10.         Throughout the period of uncertnty between September 1987 and June 1988, Bank
and Fund staff mahitined an active dialogue with the Government. A number of Bank/Fund
missions visited Mogadishu and exchanged views with the authorities on issues regarding the need for
change in economic policies. Based on broad understandings reached with the Fund, the Government
adopted a policy package. In early March 1989, a second PFP covering the period 1989-1991 was
prepared by the Government and discussed and agreed with Bank and Fund staff. This new PFP
provided the basis for AS*.r U and it was also expected to lead to a Fund monitored program for
Somalia.
II.         For implementation and monitoring of ASAP II, the IMF was consulted on the system
for foreign exchange allocation envisaged under the program.
B. SECOND AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM (ASAP 1)
Objectives
12.         The objective of ASAP II was to support the Government's adjustment program and
policies with a pardcular fous on agriculture. The economic policy reforms and the Government's
statd strong commitment to these reforms were the bass for the ASAP H credit. It was aimed at
helping to achieve and sustain economic stabilization; increase private sector participation in supplying
and distributing inputs and services; strengthen key agrcultal institutions; provide foreign exchange
for the import of much needed agricultural and industrial inps as well as other goods and services;
improve montorng of imports through trade verification; and ameliorate the impact of adjustment
programs on vulnerable groups.
Componens
13.  'Me components to be fnanced by ASAP II are shown in Table 1.



-4-
Table 1: Components of ASAP It Credit
Components                                    IDA   AfDF Total
Imports of Goods
Public and private sector enterprises   44.5  17.0  61.5
Fuel im    by SOMPET 2/                 16.5   5.0  21.5
Imports of Inputs by Governmt Ministries       1.0   3.0   4.0
Social Action Program for Vulerable Groups     2.7    -     2.7
Technical Assisace
Ministry of Finance and Revenue         4.1    -      4.1
Ministry of National Planning           0.6    -      0.611
Ministry of Agriculte                   0.6    -      0.6
Total                                         70.0  25.0  95.0
1/ Excludes about US$0.5 million of parallel financing from the Govement of Sweden.
2e The National Petroleum Agency
Policy Actions Envisapi under the Program
14.          The policy actions under ASAP II were both macroeconomic and sectoral. It was
ppaent that policies aimed at improved performne of the agricultural secor would have only
limited success unless they were backed by an appropriate macroecnomic policy environment The
key macroeconomic objectives of the program were: (a) raising the rate of growth of real GDP to
almost 5 percent in the medium term (b) reducing progressively the eal  curren account deficit;
and (c) conainig the rate of inflation to about 39 percent by end-1989, 20 percent by end-1990, and
13 percent by end-1991.
15.          To achieve these objectives, the Government was to carry out the following
macroeconomic policy actions:
(a)   exeral policies - mainta  flexible and realistic exchange rate policy to ensure
competitiveness of the economy, and promote and diversify exports;
(b)   fiscal policies - reduce budget deficit, carry out tax reforms, establish an import
verification system, conduct public expenditure review, increase sbare of expenditres
on mantenance and social services wiile reducing those on foreig repretaton;
(c)    monetary policies - esue that real interest rates are positive, prepare audit and
action plan to address financial problems of the government-owned Commercial and
Savings Bank (CSBS) and strengthen the monitoring and supeavision procedures of the
Centra Bank.
16.          Sectral policy actions were:
(a)   agricultural price policy and marketing - decontrol prices and marketng of hides and
skins, fankincense and myrrh, veterinary drugs, equipment and services, agree on an



5-
action plan for the reorganization of public sector enterprises involved in processing
and marketing of agricultural products, and improve food aid magement;
(b)   tnation, insrace and financial services - decontrol maritime transport, the
ban  system, and insurmce industry;
(c)   public sector management - improve policy analysis and planning in agriculture,
update anmually the three-year rolling public investment program, improve cost
recovety for public agricultur investment projects; and
(d)   land tenure - agree with IDA on an action plan to improve land tenure policy and
administation for irrigated lands.
lIuplemutatlon
17.   The proam was approved by the Board in June 1989 and became effective on August 2,
1989. The perod in which ASAP II was implemented was marked by serious political turmoil and a
renewed civil war in the north. Faced with increasing challenges from opposition groups, GOS lost
control of certain territories and economic sectors to the extent that many of the essentl reform
measures could not be implemented. In irnuary 1991, the Government was overthrown, and the
country tossed by militias of opposing clans into chaos from which it has not recovered at the time of
the writing of this report Since March 1991, IDA has suspended JI its operations in Somalia,
including ASAP II. The second tranche of SDR 21.7 million was canceled because the
conditionalities for release were not met.
(a) Macroeconomic Reform
18.   Extnal Podes. The main action was the implementation of a flexible and realistic
exchange rate. GOS took a major step by devaluating the So. Sh. by 44 percent in foreign currency
terms in June 1988, and pegging it to a basket of currencies of the country's main trading partners.
To rationalize the use of foreign exchnge resources, a temporary system was put in place for the
allocation of private sector imps financed by donor-finded commodity import programs (CIP).
GCS established the system as described in the President's Report: at the beginning of each month,
the authorities announced the amount of foreign exchange available. Importers submitted their
requests for foreign exchange allocation to the Central Bank, accompanied by a nonrefimdable fee in
domestic currency equivalent to 10 percent of the amount requested. Requests were honored on a
prorata basis. The system approximated an auction in that the price of foreign exchange rose when
demand exceeded supply. At the same time, GOS made weekly adjustments to the official exchange
rate.
19. The foreign exchange allocation system started immediately after the project became effective.
In September 1989, the official exchange rate was So. Sh. 566 per U.S. dollar, about 65 percent of
the free market rate or 85 percent of the rate vt the foreign exchange allocations. Around that time, a
Bank supervision mission also discovered an increase in the issue of the CSBS's *cashier's checks"
which were strongly suspected to lack backing of funds. The issue of a substantial number of such
checks were the main reasons for the rapid devaluation in the foreign exchange auctions which led to
the Governmet's decision to cancel tie auctions in September 1987. When this happened again
under ASAP II, IDA and the M  raised the problem as a major issue with the Govenmment.
20.   Othe factmo also afected exche rate movement: a deepening cisis of confidence in the
political arena, the uruly credit operaons of the CSBS that finally led to its collapse, and an
expaosion in money supply that caused high inflation. At the end of 1989, the margin between the



-6 -
free market and official rates widened to more than 50 percent because the devaluation of the Somali
Shilling in the free market continued at a higher rate than in the official market. The overvaluation
meant that incentives to export through official channels deteriorated dramatically. Following
discussions with the IMF and IDA, the Govennent took action to tighten credit policies and by the
supervision mission of April 1990, the official exchange rate had stabilized at about 70 percent of the
free market rate. Demand for the CIP funds, however, had slackened due to a cash shortage well
as a restricted opportunity to take the imported commodities to other pars of the country affe-ed by
civil unrest. There was also a growing cost in the use of the CIP funds relative to the free market
because of their restrictions on the type and source of imports, in addition to procedural burdens.
21.   Fiscal Polhices. The Government failed to achieve program revenue targets for FY1989. At
year end, the Government collected only about 5.3 percent of GDP in revenues, against the program
target of 7 percent. This was due pardy to the low level of imports through the CIPs and GOS's
failure to implement fuel and other tax increases despite the wide-ranging adjustment measures it had
announced. The administration of taxation also deteriorated in many areas, as evidenced in the sharp
decline in the collection of fines and penalties. In addition, Parliament ratified a revision in the tariff
structure, reducing the tariff on wheat and pasta. These rates resulted in a subsnal loss of
revenues and discouraged the domestic processing of wheat. A contract for the import verification
system was signed in September 1990 but implementation had barely started when the Govermnent
fell two months later.
22.   On the expenditure side, GOS's decision to close nine embassies was never implemented.
'Tere were large extra-budgetary expenditures, the accumulation of arrears to suppliers, payment of
the fuel subsidy and a fuel distribution system which did not repay the National Petroleum Agency
(SOMPET) for fuel supplies such that SOMPET was forced to obtain credit from the banking system.
Most of the agreed recommendations of IDA's Public Expenditure Review mission (November 1989)
were not satsaorily implemented. In FY1989, the share of the economic and social sectors in
ordinary budget expenditures was 7 percent, far short of the program target of 15 percent. The
revision in the 1990 budget came late and with insufficient detail, contrary to the understandings
reached with the IDA mission. Expenditures were effected from a large contingency item outside the
monitoring and control of the appropriate budget officers. On the Public Investment Program, a
number of discussions were held between IDA and GOS to sort out differences. By the last
supervision mission, a few disagreements remained, mainly concerning the economic viability of
rehabilitating the Mogadishu Petroleum Refinery.
23.   Monetary Policy. The Government's performance in this area was poor. The credit and
monetary targets agreed with the IMF were largely overhot Inflation on an end-year basis was
estimated to be 300 percent for 1990. The IDA supervision mission attributed this to the Central
bank injecting large quantities of currency in circulation in order to respond to the pressures to
finance the extrabudgetary expenditures, fuel price subsidies and the fuel importation and distribution
agencies.
24.   Another serious problem was CSBS's credit operations. From the start of the program, the
operations of the CSBS, the only commercial bank in the country, had been chaotic. An audit of the
CSBS was completed, showing a large number of non-performing accounts. After IMA took issue
with the CSBS's circular checks used to finance imports at the foreign exchange allocations (para.
19), the Govermment agreed to withdraw from all CSBS branches the authority to extend loans. It
also agreed to place expers provided trough tla/EC technical assistance to key m gria
positions, and expedited the finalization of the audit report which was to contribute to the



-7
restructuring plan for the bank. GOS later agreed with the IMF and IDA on a Revised Program to
dismantle the CSBS and establish a new bank, the Somali Commercial Bank. At the end of 1990,
about half the staff of CSBS had been laid off, but the 20 percent payout to all large depositors and
full payout to very small depositors had not been effected, although some influential account holders
had been able to withdraw their deposits. The Somali Commercial Bank was established in July
1990, mainly with Government capital but with a clause in the bank's charter allowing the progressive
sale of the Government's shares to the private sector. The new bank was beginning to gear up to
provide the full range of banking services, such as lending and opening of letes of credit by the end
of 1990. Tbe bank was closely supervised by the Central bank, which carried out regular monthly
casb audits. At the same time, the Central Bank issued a banking license to a group of Somali
investors who intended to establish a private bank.
(b) Agricultural Prce Poliy and Marketing
25.   In January 1989, GOS enacted the necesary legislation to implement its decontrol policy for
hides and skins, frnUnce   and myrrh, veterinary drugs, equipment and services. However,
the over-stretched administraon was not able to put in place the machinery for licensing and control
of the newly liberalized sectors and to attract private sector participants. The effects did not begin to
be felt until 1990. A Government report on the effects of the liberalization measures showed
significant evidence of private sector involvement, although a considerable proportion of trade flowed
through informal channels. In the hides and skins subsector, virtually all the trade was in
unprocessed products since they could be smuggled out of the country easily. The Somali Leather
Agency, a publicly owned company, had considerable processing capacity which was lying idle. The
reasons given were the rule allowing exporters to retain only 40 percent of their foreign exchange
earnings, the increase in raw skin prices and the unavailability of processing materis. The small
private sector gave similar reasons for the absence of processing. GOS agreed with donors on
measures to encourage exports, such as by allowirg exporters to retain 80 percent of their foreign
exchange earnings in order to encourage them to channel their trade officially.2/
26.   Improving the operadonal efficiency of public sector enterprises involved in processing and
marketing of agricultural products was another reform area. An IDA supervision mission reviewed
an action plan for combining the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) and National
Commercial Agency (ENC) into a new National Grain Agency, and found it acceptable. Both
enterprises were involved with grain and food trading and had been examined with the help of
technical assistance financed from ASAP I.
27.   GOS also presented for the Bank's review in August 1991 an action plan for the improved
management of food aid. The objective of the plan was to maximize the value of food aid to the
economy and consumers, and to coordinate the contribution of donors. Another objet-C-: was to
establish the relationship between the management of food aid and food policy. The plan also set out
the responsibilities of different ministries and the National Grain Agency in food aid management.
Following discussions with IDA and some modifications, the plan was found acceptable by IDA.
Z/   'Me 80 percent retention was to take place in December 1990, the month the civil war spread
to Mogadisu.



- 8 -
(c) Tramportion, Insurance and Flanmcal So-vices
28.   GOS implemented its decontrol policy in maritime transport, financial services and the
insurance industry. In shipping and fiancial services, private sector intsw  expanded quickly. At
the final supervision mission, the Ministry of Transport had issued ten licemes to opere forwarding
and shipping agency services. Three private groups with well advanced plans to establish a private
bank had contacted the IFC and potenti foreign partns. Howver, IFC was not in a position to
provide assistance until Somalia fully cleared its arrears. As mentioned in para. 24, one group had
b =- issi'ed a banking license. In the insurance industry, while the law liberalizing the services was
passed, no regulations for providing for formal registration procedures had been issued by MOF. In
addition, an efficient insurance industry would require efficient banking services which did not exist
in Somalia.
(d) Public Sedor Management
29.   To improve policy analysis and pinning in agriculture, technical assistance was prvided to
the Central Statisdcs Depatmt in the Ministy of National Planning (MNP). The assistance,
executed by Statistics Sweden with a matching grant from the Swedish Government, was a
continuation of the support started in ASAP I. A supervision mission reported that the technical
assistance was running well, and that the quantity and quality of the statistical output had improved,
although the geographic coverage was reduced due to the inaccessibility of some parts because of civil
unrest. Local and international training was given to local staff, but their return rate was
disappointing. Only three out of eight who had gone for overseas training had returned.
30.   On improving cost recovery, supervision missions found t  the rental charges levied by the
Tractor Hire Agency (ONAI), were adequate to cover costs. One of the missions recommeded that
an audit of ONAT costs be undertaken so that they could be verified. This was not carried out before
the Government collapsed.
(e) Land Tenure
31.   Following extensive consultations within the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture
presented the Bank with a final action plan for policy and administrative reform in irrigated lands. It
outiined future policy, defined the laws which would need to be drafted, and the timetable and
substae of the consultation process. The plan had been approved by the Economic Commit of
the Council of Ministers. The next step was fPrther technical assistance from a legal expert to draft
the revised land law. This was not completed before the Government collapsed.
( Social Dimensions of Adjustmet
32. At the time of appraisal, it was expected that the Government's adjustment program would
have short-term adverse effects on consumers, primarily by raising prices of food, water,
transportation and other services. Such effects were likely to fall more heavily on the poorest urban
populations who were benefitig from subsidized prices for food and services and whose incomes
would not rise immediately. To alleviate the impact of adjusunent on vunerable groups, GOS formed
a Social Action Committee comprising a wide range of Government insions and donor
repreentatves. The commttee, responsible to MOF, establihed the int  themes of the program:
(a) the provision of essential social services to poor and vulnerable groups; (b) employmt creation
for people laid off as a result of the adjustment program; (c) assistance to the poor and vulnerable



-9.
groups to alleviate the impact of sharp increases in food prices and essential services as a result of the
adjustment program. A special account was established in the Central Bank. A Social Action Unit
(SAU) was formed under the MNP. The unit was to formulate policies and review proposals
submitted by non-Government organizations (NGOs). 'Me supervision mission of December 1990
found that while good progress had been made, the SAU needed strengthening in order to formulate
policies and strategies that would simulate project proposals from NGOs. Te -mission recommended
the recruitment of a second expatriate. By the end of 1990, the SAU had received 40 project
proposals, out of which four had beea completed and two were being implemented. Of the remaining
projects, six had been approved or rommended for approval, seven rejece  and the rest in various
stages of appraisal. Plans had been finalized for a household expendiure survey and the AfDF had
made a commitment to finance the surveys. However, it could not be carried out because of the
Government's collapse.
Condidonafity
33.   Credit proceeds for the importion of goods and materials in the Program were to be
disbursed in two tranches, $33 million (54 percent) for the first tranche and $28 million (46 percent)
for the second tranche. The condidons for releasing the first tranche were met before negotiations.
Additional conditions for effectiveness were also met and were as follows: opening of the Project
Account, establishment of the Social Action Fund, and appointment of the head of the Social Action
Unit.
34.   Implementation oF i1rst Tranche Conditons. On the macroeconomic front, the
Government implemented the following conditdons:
(a)    external policies - devalued the Somali Shilling and adjusted it weeldy to correct for
relative rates of inflation with trading; alowed exporters to retain 40 percent of their
foreign exchange eanings; and established a new foreign exchange allocation system;
(b)   fiscal policies - cut expendiures and reduced the budget deficit in the second half of
1988 and carried out studies on reforming the tax system;
(c)    monetary policies - simplified the interest rate structure, raised deposit rates to 40
percent and lending rates to 50 percent; and passed a law opening the banking system
to the private sector.
35.   The Government also enacted the following agriculural and instituional reforms to meet the
first tranche conditions:
(a)   removed monopoly pricing and marketing arrangements of agricultural products, set
support prices for grain at levels between import and export parity, with ADC as the
buyer of last resort; and agreed to sell food aid at market prices;
(b)   announced legislation to decontrol:
Oj    all trade in hides and skins;
(-d)   all trade in veteinary drugs;
Qii)  aU trade in frakinen and myrrh;
(Iv)   bnking - pivate banks were allowed to be established;



- 10-
(v)    maritime shipping services; and
(vi)  insurance services.
36.   Covenants. Annex 2 provides a summary of covenants and the extent of compliance by the
end of 1990. Those covenant related to implementation of the program were discussed in previous
paragraphs. In general, the Government was in compliance with most sectoral conditionalities but
failed to implement agreed macroeconomic policies as political turmoil and the loss of Government
control, such as in credit, revenue generation and expenditure allocation, resulted in shortfals from
perfomace targets.
37.   Second Trande  Conditions. The Govermnent eaust  the first tranche in January 1990
and requested IDA to release the second tranche. The conditions for its release were:
(a)   satisfactory progress in the implementation of the overall macroeconomic and sectoral
policies;
(b)   agreement with IDA on the three-year public investment program covering 1990-
1992;
(c)   agreement with IDA on proposals for the public expenditur program to be included
in the FY1990 Government budget;
(d)   based on a revised tariff structure for main imports ageed with IDA, the
establishment and implementation of an import verification system satisfcory to
IDA;
(e)   agreement with IDA on an action plan for the institutional development of ADC and
ENC; and
(f)   agrement with IDA on an action plan to improve land tenure policy and
administration for irrigated land.
38.   Following two unsuccessful reviews of progress on the above conditions, IDA sent a letter to
GOS on August 22, 1990 listng areas of significant departures from the program, namely:
(a)   limiting the increase in money supply during 1989 to about 28 percent; the
Government permitted an increase of 130 percent;
(b)   strengthening of the inspection and supervision procedures of the Central Bank over
the banking system. This was not done and, as a result, the CSBS incurred high
unrecoverable debts and went bankrupt;
(c)   increasing the ratio of revenue to GIP to about 7 perce in 1989 and 10 percen in
1990. Actual performance in 1989 was 5.3 percent, and the first three months of
1990 showed a further deterioradon; and
(d)   a phased realiocation of Government expendiures by increaing the share of social
and economic expenditures to at least 15 percent in 1989, 18 percen in 1990 and 20
percent in 1991. The actual share of ordinary budget expendi     on socal and
economic sectors in 1989 was only 7 percent and in the first quarter of 1990, only 4
percent
The letter outlined the key actions that needed to be taken and gave GOS up to 90 days to complete
them. In January 1991, following a review mission which found GOS's performance on



- 11 -
macroeconomic and fiscal conditions unsatisfactory, IDA canceled the second tranche (SDR 21.7
million) from the credit.
Procurement and Disbursement
(a) Procurement
39.   The proceeds of the IDA credit were used to finance imports as stipulated in the credit
agreement: eligible commercial inputs outside the negative list and agricultural inputs by the
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries within a positive list. Procurement followed the
guidelines under IDA credits. All procurement was handled by the Procurement Unit already
established under ASAP I in MOF. The unit's performance was good.
(b) Disbursement
40.   Disbursemnt by Category. As stipulated in the credit agreement, disbursements were made
for the total foreign exchange cost of eligible imports under full documentation, and the Government
opened special accounts in US dollars with an international commercial bank to facilitate
disbursement. The credit disbursement record at the time of project suspension is shown in Table 2.
Since the special accounts cannot be reconciled at this stage, the exact amounts disbursed from each
category are not known.
Table 2. CREDfT DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
(SDR million)
Category                          Allocated       Actual 1/
1. a. Imported goods and materials for public and
private sector enterprises                              34.4            8.6
b. diesel fuel and lubricants                           12.8            0.0
2. Consultants' services and training                     4.1             0.7
3. Goods, works and services                              2.1             0.2
4. Goods to be imported by Ministries                     0.8             0.2
Fund A 2J- Import of goods and materials (Cats. la and 4)  -              16.0
Fund B - Social Action Program                                            0.2
Fund C - Technical Assistance                      _                      0.4
Total                             54.2             26.3
11    SDR 21.7 million (US$ 28 million equivalent) was canceled from Category I because the
second tranche conditions were not met. The balance of SDR 6.2 million has been
suspended.
2/    The Funds are deposits ino special accounts.



- 12 -
41.   Import of Goods. From August 16, 1989 to October 31, 1990, the amount sold at foreign
exchange allocations totalled US$48.4 million. The contributions were from IDA, the Italian
Goverment ai and AfDF. The IDA fimds came from the first tranche release and were exhausted
by January 1990. The second tranche was not released. Most of the IDA funds (more than 70
percent) were used to finance food imports, 10 percent went to building materials and the rest to raw
materials, equipment and spares for agriculture and industry and household items.
42.   Imports of Fuels and Ministerial Inputs. No fuel was imported under ASAP II. Although
a contract was signed, the fuel could not be delivered after the Government collapsed. Similarly,
most of the imports by the Ministries could not be delivered.
43.   Technical Assistance. The following technical assistance was recruited according to plan: (a)
by the MOF for trocurement, import verification, and tariff review; (b) by the MNP for
strengthening its statistcs department; and (c) by the Ministry of Agriculture for preparing the land
tenure action plan and providing training in machinery rehabilitation. The only consultant not
employed was the advisor to SC)'F on transition problems for enterprises during the adjustment
process.
(c) Colinancing
44.   AfDF cofinancing of FUA 21 million (US$25 million) was to be released in two tranches -
about US$13 million in the fist tranche and US$12 million in the second. The AfDF first tranche
conditions were the same as the IDA credit's second tranche conditions. The funds were to be used
for the import of goods and materias by private and public sector enterprises, fuels by SOMPET and
inputs by the Ministries. In October 1990, AfDF released its first tranche although IDA considered
the macroeconomic performance as unsatisfactory. FUA 7.0 million was deposited in a special
account, of which US$846,000 was disbursed through the foreign exchange allocation. The Swedish
Goverment also provided parallel grant financing of SEK 3.1 million (about US$0.5 million) for the
statistics component in MNP.
(d) Accounts and Audits
45.   The audit report for the period August to December 1989 was submitted with three months'
delay. The auditor found the project financial statements representative of the financial position of
ASAP nI as at December 1989 and in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
C. THE IMPACT OF ASAP II
Introduction
46.   Obtaining up front commitments to policy change along with evidence that the policies
could be sustained, was one of the lessons from ASAP L Experience with ASAP II re-emphasized
the importance of obtaining a strong commitment of the Government to critical policy issues before
the negotiation of any fiue adjustment programs credits. On the other hand it has also underlined
31    The Italian Government supported the foreign exchange allocations with parallel grant
financing. It was, stricty speaking, not a cofinancier of ASAP 11. All fiancial accounts of
the Italian fiuds were kept separate from ASAP II.



- 13-
the need to ensure that the commitment is clearly understood and accepted by the highest level of
government, particularly if a country does not have a credible representative government.
47.   Hopes were high at the start of ASAP 11 that all the necessary conditions for a successful
adjustment program had been achieved. The GOS had produced a track record of sound monetary
and fiscal management which had been monitored by the Fund and IDA for about nine months. The
government had also decided and published a number of important policy changes before negotiations
for ASAP U.
48.   It was felt therefore that ASAP 11 was on firmer ground and that the program was sustainable.
Despite a change in the Minister of Finance at the st  of negotiations, assurances were received by
the President of IDA from the Somali President that the program which had been agreed during
appraisal would be implemented. Even though a number of important structural changes were
achieved under the credit, the impact of the credit on the economy did not turn out as had been
hoped. Overall, the impact of ASAP U was unsatisfactory. The following paragraphs will review the
impact of ASAP II in terms of the government's commitment, the government's performance and
economic development and IDA performance.
Govermnent Commitment
49.   The government had made explicit commitments to make corrections to economic policy and
there were many senior ministers who supported this objective. Unfortunately soon after the
commitments were made the secrity situation in northern Somalia deteriorated which resulted in
considerable pressures on the foreign exchange resources and on the domestic budget. The result was
that the political arm of the government provided little or no support to the senior ministers to achieve
economic reform. The deterioration in security continued throughout the implementation of ASAP II.
Hence strong actions which were required in areas such as credit control and increased allocations of
the budget to the social sectors could not be taken because the commitment to economic reform at the
political level did not exist. The fimdamental problem was that at the highest level of government the
political survival of the regime was the main objective even at the expense of economic reform.
Govermment Performance and Economic Development
50.   Increasing civil unrest in northern Somalia and a total absence of control on credit from the
banking system created a crisis of confidence for the government in tems of its ability to control
political events and money supply during implementation of ASAP II. On the other hand, while
initial progress on structural change was good, most of the measures were just beginning to be
implemented at the time of project suspension. There were also some improvements in respect of the
budget deficit. Ihe government's performance was therefore mixed, but the overwhelming impact of
the continued poor macroeconomic performance outweighed the achievements on structural change
and the budget.
51.   While these pressures were being handled the government was also in the process of political
change, mainly the 1obmation of a multiparty representative system. This process was, however,
moving slowly and there was apparently little involvement of the general public or the various
political factions in the process. A draft for a new constitution emerged towards the end of 1990, but
confidence in the government had eroded to such an extent that questions were raised about whether a
peaceful referendum on the draft could be held.



- 14 -
52.   At the end of 1990, just before open warfare broke out in Mogadishu, the status of the
objectives of ASAP n could be summarized as follows;
*     Econonic Growth. The first full year for the Implementation of ASAP 11 (1990) was
a disappointing year for the economy. The agricultural sector was estimated to have grown
by about 1.3 percent. The economy as a whole, however, was estimated to have declined by
about 1.5 percent for the year, after stagnating in 1989 4/. The major reasons for the poor
performance in agriculture had been lower than average crop production and insecurity in the
main livestock producing areas. The other sectors of the economy suffered serious declines
because of the lack of confidence. In addition, most of the resources transferred to the
economy through the foreign exchange allocations did not generate employment in the
productive sectors.
*     Credit and Monetary Policy. Throughout the implementation of ASAP I the
government's lack of control over credit from the banking sector resulted in a lack of trust of
the exchange rate and a collapse of the banking system. Agreed credit ceilings to the central
governent and to paras had been exceeded by 22 and 40 percent respectively.
Following the collapse of the CSBS, the country was left without functioning banking
facilities. At the same time the lack of control over credit and monetary instruments had
fueled inflation which on an end of year basis was estimated to have reached 300 percent
One aspect on which the government's perfonmance continued to be sound, however, was the
implementation of the foreign exchange auction.
3     Extwerl Sector. The absence of reliable banking services, the large gap between the
official and market exchange rates (30 percent) and the limit of 40 percent retention of foreign
exchange earnings by exporters negatively affected overall export performance, particularly of
livestock exports, and gave rise to a growing informal export trade in most commodities,
except bananas. This meant that official export receipts by the Central Bank did not increase
in response to the ASAP H credit as had been anticipated.
*     Fisa Situation. The govermment's revenue performance was a major
disapointment due to inadequate tax administration and a fail in official imports. It was
estimated that by the end of 1990, total revenues would have fallen to about 4 percen of
GDP. In regard to expenditures, the government had shown some capacity to control costs
ane had achieved some improvements in the allocation of the budget to the social sectors.
Nevertheless during 1990 it was at best about 13 percent.
*     Price Policy. The goverment had generally contiued to implement the decontrol of
all domestic prices. The only major exception at the end of 1990 was the pricing of fuel
which was still controlled by the government fuel distribution parastatal and the government
backed cooperatives. Plans had, however, already been made by the then government to
establish import parity pricing for fuel.           a
*     Structural Measures. The removal of a number of structural constraints to growth in
the economy was the most important achievement of ASAP II. The strctural measures
included the decontrol of hides, skins, frankincense and myrrh marketing, deregulation of
4/    Source: IM



- 15 -
banking, decontrol of veterinary drugs services and equipment marketing, liberalization of the
insurance industry, and decontrol of shipping services. Progress had been made in all these
areas. The accepance of free trade in the Somali economy was an established fact before the
outbreak of hostilities.
*     Technical Assistae. All technical assistance components were satisfactorily
implemented, although some with delay. The most important one was assistance to the
Ministry of National Planning to continue to develop its capacity to undertake the preparation
of national statistics and conduct analysis. The Ministry of Finance received full time
assistance from one consultant and the import verification contract had been awarded and the
consultant had bffn mobilized. The outbreak of hostilities put a halt to all this work.
*     Social Action Program. The government had established a social fund in the
Ministry of Natiohal Planning which was aimed at assisting the poor and in particular some
groups which were disadvantaged as a result of the adjustment program or not able to take
full advantage of the program. Six micro projects had been approved by the social action
program, fur of which bad been completed. However, because of the civil war, no
evaluation of their impact was possible.
*     Second Tranche Conditions. The main thrust of the second tranche conditions was
improved economic policy and institutional change. While the government did not meet the
test for improved economic policy and hence the second tranche was not released, it did
ahieve some institutional changes which are recorded earlier in this report.
IDA Performance
53.    At the start of the discussions of ASAP II with the government, IDA had insisted on
achieving an explicit government commitment and *up front" conditions to the credit. This was done,
and laid the groundwork for the fulfillment of structural changes envisaged in the program. In
addition the government understood very well the macroeconomic conditions required for the program
to be a success. This understanding resulted in an excellent dialogue with government officials and a
high level of collaboration.
54.   There was also a high level of collaboration between the Fund and IDA on the advice on and
monitoring of the program and a high degree of cross support between the two institutions. Many of
the IDA supervision missions were in tandem with a Fund mission and there was excellent
cooperation and contnual consultation. Usually at least one member of the IDA supervision mission
was also a member of the Fund mission.
55.   A primary cause of the program's breakdown was the increasing level of political unrest and
civil hostilities within Somalia which ultimately resulted in all out civil war at the end of 1990. IDA
and the Fund might not have fully appreciated the ramifications of the onguing political turmoil and
its degenerating impact on economic policy and its implememation. Government instittions, which
had poor implementation capacity before the escalation of civil unrest, became further weakened, to
the eat that they could not control the economy. The rampant release of credit without collatera
by the sole commercial bank was an example.



- 16-
D. LESSONS LEARNED
56.   There were three main lessons from ASAP H. Tlese lessons build on those learned during
the implementation of ASAP 1. The three lessons are related to political commitment to
implementation, importance of achieving economic reform to create an enabling environment for
getting the benefits from structural change, and the importance of having a competent civil service to
implement policy.
*     Political Commitment and Constraints. The experience with most adjustment
programs is that they fail unless there is a strong commitment by the government to the
objectives of the program. The experience with ASAP I is that the lack of wider support for
commitments undertaken by the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank
was a major factor bebind the poor implementation record. Effots were later made by the
Finance Minister and the Bank to open consultations with representatives of other economic
ministries on the content of the economic program. This appeared successful, but the civil
war had spread by that time, making it impossible for the Government to carry out the
program despite its growing commitment. With hindsight, it is clear that the re-emergence of
the civil war in the north was a major impediment to the satisfactory implementation of ASAP
I because of the constraints it placed on the budget and exports.
e     Stuctural Change not Sufficient without Improved Economic Poicy and Poltica
Stability. The results of ASAP H can be summ_ized as an inadequate achievement of
macroeconomic policy refom and an adequate achievement of structural change in the
economy. The lesson is that the structural adjustments, while carried out in accordance with
the program, could not b.nefit the economy as a whole without reform in general economic
policy and political stability. In other words the enabling environment for growth following
the stuctural changes was not present. For example structural changes such as decontrol of
shipping services, as well as the improvemnent of livestock handling facilities by other donors,
to provide incentives for livestock exporters to increase their activities had little effect while
the exchange rate regime was not conducive and there was a considerable lack of security
which increased the uncertainties for traders and also increased their costs.
*     Weak Government lItitutions. A chronic problem in Somalia during the
implementation of both ASAP I and ASAP II was the weakness of the institutions of
government responsible for the implementation of reform. This weakless was reflected in the
pervasive inability of government institutions to implement monetary and fiscal policies, and
to take prompt follow-up action on Government decrees announcing policy changes. Tbe
lesson is that the Bank should be cautious about assuming that government institutions are able
to implement complex policies. Strengthening of institutional capacity to implement policy
reforms should be a long-term goal of our lending pro.am in these countries.
*     Ineffective Balane of Payment Support. Balance of payment support, with its
associated budget support, cannot be effecive if it is a substite for a dteriorating ability of
government to mobilize domestic resources.



- 17 -
PART 11- PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
IDA was not able to obtain Part 11 from the Borrower due to the politica! and security
situation in Somalia.



Annex I
Page I of 2
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Credit Data
(US$ million)
Credit 1.Original                          Disbursed              Can1g
Cr.2030-SO              70.0                  33.6                 21.71/
Stage of Project Cycle          Original Date                 Anal Dat
Initiating Memorandum                                             08/1911987
Letter of Development Policy                                      04/30/1989
Negotiations                                                       04/1989
Board Approval                       01/26/1988                   06/01/1989
Credit Agreement                                                  06126/1989
Effectiveness                        07/17/1989                   08/02/1989
Credit Closing                       01/31/1992                   01/31/1992
CUMULATIVE CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year          Planned               Actual            Actual as % of
Annual  Cumulative   Annual  Cumulative         Planned
1990           50        50         32.8      32.8               66
1991           20        70          0.8      33.6               48
.11          The credit balance of SDR 6.2 million has been suspended since March 1991.



19
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
MISSION DATA
Items        MonthiYear     No. of Weeks    No.of Persons     Report Date
Preparation        05/1987            2                1           05/17/1987
Appraisal          09/1987            3               5            09/2311987
Supervision        07/1988            2                1           07/31/1988
Supervision        111988            3               2             1210911988
Supervision        02/1989            2               2            03/07/1989
Supervision        05/1989            2               5            05/31/1989
Supervision        09/1989            2               1            09/13/1989
Supervision        11/1989            2               2             12/07/1989
Supervision        04/1990            1               1            04/30/1990
Supervision        06/1990            2               2            06/19/1990
Supervision        12/1990            3               3             12/20/1990
BANK INPUTS (Staff Weeks)
Items      1987     1988    1989    1990    1991    1992       1993
Preparation    4.5     15.8                    _
Appraisal              27.4    28.2
Negotiation                     9.1
Supervision                             48.6    33.2      1.8      0.1
PCR           _ .I_ 0.1
| Total        4.5     43.2    37.3    48.7    33.2       1.8      0.1



- 20-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                             Annex 2
SOMALlA                                Page 1 of 2
SECOND AGRKCULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Status of Covenants
Scti                   Cnant
2.01 (d)    Special account shall be opened for Part  Account was opened in August 1989 in
D in a commercial bank on terms and    the Instituto Bancario San Paolo Bank in
_______ conditions satisfactory to IDA.          Turin, Italy.
2.02 (b)    Special account shall be opened and  Accounts were opened in August 1989 in
maintained for Part A and B in a     the Instituto Bancario San Paolo Bank in
commercial bank on terms and        Turin, Italy.
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2.02 (c)    Special account shall be opened for Part  Account was opened in September 1989
C in the Central Bank of Somalia on  in the Central Bank of Somalia.
terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.                                                                      l
3.01 (a)    The Borrower declares its commitment   The Borrower confirmed its commitment
and        to the objectives of the credit.     at effectiveness. However, the program
Schedule 2                                      was significantly off track during the first
year of implementation in respect to
credit control and revenue generation.
3.01 (b)    The Borrower shall implement the    The Borrower was implementing the
and        project according to Schedule 5.     project according to Schedule 5.
Schedule S
3.02       The Borrower shall provide all       All necessary assistance was provided.
necessary assistance to consultants
employed under the project.
3.04       The Borrower shall establish a       The counterpart fund account was
counterpart fund account in the Central   established in August 1989.
Bank.
3.05 (a)    The Borrower shall establish and    The Social Action Fund was established
maintain a Social Action Fund.      in June 1989.
3.05 (b)    The Borrower shall maintain a Social    Ihe Social Action Committee was
Action Committee in the MNP.        established in July 1989.
3.06 (a)    The Borrower shall establish a Social    The Social Action Unit was established in
Action Unit in the MNP by 8/31/1989.   July 1989.



-21 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
3.07       The Borrower shall carry out, submit    A joint missiun from the AfDB and the
to IDA, and act on surveys designed to   SDA unit of the Bank visited Somalia in
monitor the living conditions of the  early May 1990 to plan for the surveys.
households made vulnerable by the   The AtDF had made a commitment to
adjustment process.                 finance the survey through an AfDF
l__________ _____________________________________  credit.
3.08       Ihe Borrower shall by 11130 of every    A draft PEP was received and reviewed
year submit to IDA for comment a    by the Bank. The Borrower revised the
three year PIP and thereafter update it   draft in accordance with the IDA's
annually.                           comments, but some disagreements
remained at the end of 1990.
3.09       The Borrower shall prepare a plan of    The Borrower established a food aid unit
action for the future management of  in the Ministry of Finance and Revenue,
food aid by 3/30/1989.              and appointed an expatriate and local staff
to the unit. A plan satisfactory to IDA
_________   ______________________________ was provided.
3.10       The Borrower shall submit to IDA for   The Borrower prepared and submitted the
review semi-annual reports on the   first report to IDA in November 1989
implementation of the Program in    and the second report in December 1990.
respect of the involvement of the
private sector in the businesses and
trades of bides and skins, frankincense
and myrrh, vetenary services,
veterinary drugs and equipment, marine
transport, commercial banking, and
insurance. The fst report should be
submitted by 11/15/1989.
4.01       The Borrower shali maintain adequate    Records and accounts were established.
records and accounts for the project,
arrange for audits at the end of each
year, and provide such information on
the accounts and the audits as IDA may
reasonably request.
5.01       Conditions of effectiveness re specified   All conditions of effectiveness were met.
in this section.                    The credit became effective on August 2,
1989.



- 22 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLZMION REPORT
SOMALIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
Status of Seownd Tranche Conditons
Implementation of NMamic Pgogm                                Sa
(as described inte Revised Progn a/
Baskina Resmcung of the commrcial banking    Up to the end of 1990, th fiai sysem was stl
sectO.                                        in a state of transition fm  the instiutional changes
which had been made i 1989 and normal
commercial banking activity bad only partially
resumed. While positive steps wene taken, the 20
peret payout to ul lapge depositors of the fonrer
govenment owned commecia bank had not been
effected, although soum influential companies and
individuals had been able to withdraw teir deposits
hlere was only marginal progrm  towa
establishment of nw banks and restation of an
efficient payment system  Customers' confidence in
the financial sector was very low.
Credit/Mn     i    Implemention of monetary   The credit and monetary targets ageed with the
policy; expansion in domestic credit, and credit to    IMF were largely overshot The credit ceilings for
public setr entes, shall not exceed dte rte    the cenWal government and the pubic enterprises up
of 12 percent and 15 pecent, respectively, during    to end September 1990 wene exceeded by 22
the last seven months of 1990; during the same  percent and by 40 pent, epectively. Net
period the Governmt will make net payment to the  injecion of cash in ciruolation was So.Sh.45 billien
banddng system to offset the large bonowing up to   for the second half of 1990, compared to a program
June.                                         target of So.Sh. 10 billon. hIfation was about 30D
percent for 1990.
External Sector Implementation of a flexible  Implementation of exchange rate adjustment systm
exchange rate providing for (i) weeldy adjustments    was generally satisfactory. The Goverment
in the officisl exchange rate according to the  effectively prevented a real appreciation of the
inflation rate differenti betwee Somalia and its    currency up to late 1990. However with the
trading parters, and (ii) discrete adjutmnts to  prolongation of the financial cnsis, the flow of
avoid overvaluation of the Somli Shilling.         d    foreign exchange to the Central Bank
emained wel below previous levels. Te
Govanment did not take timely and adequate
measues to effectively counteract the negative
effect on export and mittce incnives. This
resulted in a substatl setback for the 1990 export
season for livestock.
at     This 'Revised Program' was contaied in the Letter of Intent from the GOS to the Managing Director
of the IMP, dated June 3, 1990. It was also referred to in a letter from the Minister of Funance to the Director
of AF2, dated June 13, 1990.



-23 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Administo PnigcL.P&bhic nWg ses Sal of         11 Goverment had adjusted fMl, water and
commodities impoed or produced by the          electricity prices, but only in May 1990 was
Government, such as fuel and sW, in accordance   impt  paity for gasoline achieved. At the end of
with policies to en  ralistic pricing.         1990, the prices of gasoline and diesel remained
wel below cost at the market exchange rate. Maor
fuel shonages gravly damed economic acfivity in
1990. Tax revenues on fuel products wer still
collected on the basis of specific taxes, rather tha
the agrd ad-valosem   s  Other prices, such as
sugar, wero kept artificially low for the benefit of a
selected group of traders. lhe Govenment adopted
legal and administative measures to liberalize fuel
import and distibution in December 1990. It had
lso take desons to rmov govenmt controls
from coopeations by mid 1991, and achieve
increased accountability for public eantepisw.
Rkvem     Revene coeios  of about So. Sh. 51    The revenue target was not rahed, the shortll
bilion for the period Juay 1990 to September   being So.Sh.10 billion. The growth in revenue
1990, equivalent to an anwlizd rate of nearly 6  receipts did not keep pace with inflation, and the
pecent of GDP for 1990.                        ratio of menue to GDP for 1990 was no more tban
4 percent, a now record low for Somalia and lower
tb  any other African county.
Exzpdj It was ageed in the 'Revised            The share of the total ordinay expenditures
Prog       that acta Governme  expeditus on    allocated to social and economic sectors was 13
socia and ecoomic sects for the perod Janay    peot at the end of September 1990. Mana
1990 to Septeber 1990 be at an aveag anmual    of bWget expenditure wa generally satisfctory.
rate of about 18 perent of the ordiary budge, and   However, an apparntly sound fiscal stance of the
approval of a supplemntay budget for 1990 to   centnrl goverment was offset by large extra
cover aU expenditures, includig outepa fnds,  bW'ty expenditurs, the amulaton of arrea
necessitted by tho Gov ment's com _itmts       to suppliers, and by the cost of the fuel subsidy and
under the Revised Pram.                        the inefficient fuel distribution system.



- 24 -
Anox 3
Page 3 of 3
Conditions Under Sched   4
of Credit Ageemz
1. Fuwnish de tree year Public         A draft PIP was submitted in 1989. It was revised in
investment Program for 1990-1992,      accordance with the IDA's comments. But differnces
satisfactory to the Association.       remained between the IDA and the Goverm t, in particular
an proposed investmnts in the oil refinery.
2. Furish proposals, satisfactory to the    Proposal were submitted. However, most of the agreed
Association, for Public Expenditure     eomdations of the IDA mission were not satsfactoily
Program to be included in the Bor.wer's  implemented. The budget allocations to eoonomic and social
1990 budget.                           sectors in 1990 were 13 percent against taget of 20 percent.
3. Based on a revised tariff schedule for    he tariff adjustmts wem made and ratified by the
the mai imports agreed with the        Parliamet The contract for impost verificatioo was awarded.
Association, establish and implement an  However, the implementation of the revised tariff struce
import verification system under trms  remned unsatisfactory. For some items the tates were not
and conditions satisfactory to the     adjusted as agreed with the Bank mission. Tarff rates on
Association.                           wheat flour, vegetable oil and rice wee m_inied at 4 or S
percent, while the tariff raft on pasta was rduced to 20
percnt, or to half the level of the tariff an wheat. These ratew
resulted in a substantial loss of revenus and a distortion in
relative pries of wheat, wheat flour and past, which
discouraged domestic processing of wheat
4. Furn    a plan of action, safctory    An action plan was received and teviwed by tie IMA. it was
to the Association, for institutional  judged sasactory and met the reuments of the seoond
development of ADC and ENC.            trnuche release.
5. Furnish a plan of action, satisfctory    An action plan was received and reviewed by the IDA. It was
to the Asscition, for imrving land    judged saicy and met the requents of the second
tenure policy and ai traion of         tranche release.
irrigated land.                      I



PROECT CUPLETION REPORT
SUALIA
SECOND AGRtCLLTURAL SECTOR ADJSM NT PRORM
ONTLY  URRENY SAES
Oato         Nonth   Fwded by    Auout            Am.urt     Requested   hAumt        Altocated Successful Average /   Officfal leport Account Auction as X
Offered      Reqeted    as X of   Atloated    as X of Appticants  Effective   Exchwe    Exchense                of lqwort
Offered                Requested             Auction Rate  Rate a/   Rate bl          Account
USt           USS           X          USt           X        No.       So Sh?        SohiS$    So Sh/S 
.......................... ...................................................... ,...........................................................................................................................................
16/8/89     Aug.1989  IDA/ITALY   6,000,000  12,659,589.00        211   6,000,000.00         47     70            603.00      49             7              77
519/89      Sep.1989  IDATALY   6,000,000   8,500,000.00          142   6,000,000.00         71     65            646.00     s56             839            n7
11/10/89    Oct.1989  IDA/ITALY   6,000,000  15,000,000.00        2S0   6,000,000.00         40     90            746.00      597           1064            70
8/11/89     Nov.1989  IDA/ITALY   6,000,000  14,275.262.00        238   6,000.000.00         42      91           779.00      629           n.s.          n.e.
7/12/89     Dec.1989  IDA/ITALY   6.000,000   7,087,266.00        118   6,000,000.00         85      83           983.00      879           n.a.          n.a.
10/1/90     Jan.1990  NDA/ITALY   6,000,000   5,036,122.00         84   5,036,122.00        100     51          1,075.00      979            979           110
19/2/90     Feb.1990  ITALY        6,000,000   4,377,073.00        73   4,377,073.00        100     39          1,188.00     1058           1080           110
19/3/90     Mar.1990  ITALY        6,000,000   1,363,527.00        23   1.363,527.00        100      IS         1,261.00     1130           114A           I10
2/5/90      May 1990  ITALY        4.000,000   2,240.333.00        56   2.240,333.00        100      1O         1,353.00     1268           n.e.          n.a.
30/6/90     Jun.1990  ITALY        4,000,000      785,600.00       20      785,600.00       100      7          1,74S.00      1488          1505            116
3/9/90     JullAue.90 ITALY        4,000,000   2,030.634.66         51   2,030,634.66        100     17         1,982.66      1911          1997             99
30/10/90    Oct.1990  AfOF         _,000,000      858,s12.00     n.e.    846,035.00         100      12         2,109.21     2s77           2287             92
31/10/90    Oct.1990  ITALY        4,000,000   1.693,512.00      n.a.   1,693,512.00        100      15             n.e.     2577           2287          n.e.
Total                           67,000.000  75,907,430.U             48,372,836.66
*/ Monthly average rate.
b4 En  rate derived from the exchange rates for external accounts.
n.a. a not available.



acobmomancTuW SaLP  Aoeel
SSOO1A0OUId4LUSIP0LBEfMAPAiSirOffiAY
MonvAtc4aftr_ _f_ lft
Urn  uas     urns    Z                    u W&  on  usl;     ust      up      un       un        un        us$       us.       un
Awls,  MIAL Y             c00m      tmsm"    46000.400-00         4?   lB        15.60     -        a"    14m         -        -         m.QU    *UA5    177.m    4A787
U t     lM        76.Y    too"          ,P4,1      0006.00  7,             ea     -        -       *u45    SeXa4   -           950    rt8.U    4.73.00   31700   u0t .-
I     eIrn  SMtM.        #.oft=   t8eoS S.        mmoo.o          42    so         s      s*        21*6   Isf        -       I%W*   i60W        4.211.*40  660.078   8
$ W.loo  xkw&U    &.00             14,*16W.0    0 8.,oe           48 a                     M _GM,0  2Mm    30.412    -          .421    07.26    4.41211A  4)0.*0    SU119
I4    DmI0   eALV         06066    ,W.AO          .00.10.0       t a             - asi            te        to,tti   -        p.m.    t,4e       *to m    m.i"s   S.M.
is                       &M   O,sr  6180.112"6   86 22           1t0  SC          - r      6        -       40,6e -            -         -       Simms   U5472   3 .7n
oa~a                    7060013*0                     ,m.s2sa  I         *       . 34,  13.a   g              ar ."a  at"4E  lt o1 40
Mms.e      Is.~     S*       i46       SIb               ui       is.       TM       toll      toe'
to~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ttll  ffAL  dt"o  4.8AM  4t                                                                               *          r        * la
*e   P 0b  W.Y           8     8    4.,.aoo    SAW*1A"0           no    60        -        -        -         -       -        -         -         -         -         -
ttu   fWA    n                M*. t7AS                  .0        tto   S         - i               -         - s
U0  .MDais   WaY          8.6.0    S6M.    tatea               ttl  te            -        -        -         -       -        -         -     .-                      - o
U     cauw AtMY         4SAMON,   ".        "       N.0 "         ttO    S        -        -        -         -       -        -         ,         .
I         erLo                      L             t tt       O  t 7               - I
at  tt nr           4          tta~   AsflEff                      t
t2 t_ ,IIC _t tte t2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
@ a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4rtJ4.



PROJECT COmPLETiON REPORT
SCMAUA
SECOND AGFICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
TRAINING
Staff
Scope of Training             DlscipiinefType of Training               Receving Training                    Resuts
1. Overseas Degree            Masters degree In Economics                      I              The trainee completed her study In
Training (2 years)                                                                           711990 in Univ. of Vanderbuilt,
U.S,. but had not returned to
office by end 1990.
2. Overseas Short             Agriculture Sample Surveys                       1              The trainee was sent to Univ. of
Term Training (t-3 months)                                                                   Kent, UK In autumn 1990.
Computer and Data ProcessIng                     2              Trainees were sent to Sweden in
autumn 1990.
Foreign Trade Statistics                         2              Training completed In 311990 In
U.S. Only one trainee retumed.
Statistics                                       1              The trainee conducted a study
tour In Sweden.
Industrial Statistics                            1              The trainee completed his training
In 12/1989 In U.S. but had not
returned to office by end 1990.
3. On-the-job Training        Personal Computer Training                   CSD Staff           All CSD staff members were provided
three hours wkly training.
English                                         12              One month's Intensive training
completed In 311990.
Seminar on Intemational                      CSo staff          Held In 511990.
Comparison Program of UN



