Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
C27Z HoZC 30 -&SO
Repor No. P-4995-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 54.2 MILLION
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
IN SUPPORT OF A SECOND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
MAY 2, 1989
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =  Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
US$1.00             =  So.Sh. 377 (Official rate on April 24, 1989)
(Export/Import account rate So. Sh. 511 and external
account rate So. Sh. 524 on April 24, 1989)
SEK                    Swedish Kroner
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Meter (m)              =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 Kilometer (km)         =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 Sq. kilometer (km2)    =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 Hectare (ha)                 2.47 acres (ac)
1 Metric ton (m ton)     =    2,204 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC       -    Agricultural Development Corporation
AfDB           African Development Bank
AfDF           African Development Fund
AIP            Agricultural Inputs Program
AMF       =    Arab Monetary Fund
ASAP           Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
BITS      =    Swedish Agency for International Technical and
Economic Cooperation
CIDA           Canadian International Development Agency
CG             Consultative Group
CIP       =    Commodity Import Program
CSBS      =    Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
ENC       =    National Commercial Agency (Ente Nazionale Commercio)
FEAC      =    Foreign Exchange Auction Committee
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization
FRG       =    Federal Republic of Germany
GOS       -    Government of Somalia
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HASA           Hides and Skins Agency
ICB       =    International Competitive Bidding
IMF       =    International Monetary Fund
MNP       =    Ministry of National Planning
MOA       =    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOF       =    Ministry of Finance and Revenue
MTRP      -    Medium-Term Recovery Program
ODA       =    Overseas Development Administration
ONAT      =    Tractor Hire Agency (Organizzazione Nazionale
Agricultura Trattore)
PFP       =    Policy Framework Paper
PIP       -    Public Investment Program
PU        =    Procurement Unit
SDB       =    Somali Development Bank
SOMPET    =    National Petroleum Agency
SLA       =    Somali Leather Agency
SPA       -    Special Program of Assistance
UNDP      =    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    =    United Nations Childrens Emergency Fund



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SWAI
AGNICULTURAL SICTOI AUWUSTNE PROGM It
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUIMARY
Borrower:          Somali Democratic Republic
Amount;            IDA Credit: SDR 54.2 million (US$70 million equivalent);
Beneficiaries:    Agricultural producers, agro-industry, rural wage earners,
and traders of goods and services.
Terms:            Standard for IDA, with 40 year: maturity
Cofinancing:       $25 million equivalent from the African Development Fund.
Program Description:
The program will finance recurrent import requirements of the Somali economy
in support of significant policy reforms. These reforms include the
continuation of reform in the foreign exchange policies, the decontrol of the
financing system, the elimination of subsidies on diesel fuel and tractor
rentals, the liberalization of all agricultural marketing, the improvement of
land tenure institutions, and the expansion of private sector participation in
supplying and distributing inputs and services to the economy.  The program
will also provide technical assistance for strengthening key Government
institutions, mainly in agriculture.
Program Benefits:
The main benefits from the macroeconomic program to be implemented by the
Government are the attainment of a medium term growth rate of around 5 percent
per annum, progressively reducing external current account deficits, and a
decline in the rate of inflation to about 20 percent by end 1990, and 13
percent by end-1991. The policy measures relating to the agricultural sector
are expected to promote increased domestic production, particularly of grains,
improve the marketing of grains, a number of high value crops, hides and
skins, and expand the role of the private sector. These policy measures are
also expected to result in increased exports through official channels, mainly
from the livestock and banana subsectors. These results would in turn lead to
increases in income and employment in the agricultural sector, including agro-
industry. The foreign exchange allocation system will contribute to the
efficient allocation of donor financial resources in the economy, and augment
productive output of -he economy as a whole by providing a reliable source of
financing for imported recurrent inputs. Finally, the program would
strengthen Government institutions involved in land tenure administration,
domestic grain marketing, food aid management, and statistical analysis.
Social Costs of Adjustment Programs
Institutional arrangements will be established to evaluate and implement a
number of specific action programs to ameliorate the social impact of the
adjustment program. In addition, a monitoring program will be put in place.
to keep abreast of the social impacts and the effectiveness of action
programs.
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztin.



Prosram Risks:
The most relevant risk for the operation is that the Government does not
sustain and implement its policy and institutional reform measures, or
abandons the program because of pressures coming from vested interests. At
present this risk is assessed as small since the Government in a real sense
claims ownership of the program. Another risk is that the funds available for
the foreign exchange allocation system may not be adequate to stabilize the
exchange rate and consequently lead to a lack of confidence in the allocation
system. However, given the Government's renewed commitment to improved demand
management policies, and the likely availability of additional funds through
SPA support, the amounts provided are considered adequate to cover that risk
through 1990. Another risk is that agricultural production and income may not
increase in response to the increased incentives. However, the impact of
sustained incentives over the past years provides evidence that a response
will continue to be strong. Finally it is possible that the civil unrest in
the North West region will not be resolved soon and will create continuing
strains on the budget and limit livestock exports.
Estimated Costs:
Component                        IDA        AfDF       Total
--   S million)_-------
Part A - Importation of Goods
& Materials by Public
and Private Sector
Enterprises
(a) Goods & Materials               44.5        17.0        61.5
(b) Diesel fuel & Lubricant
Imports by SOMPET               16.5         5.0        21.5
Part B - Imports of Inputs by
Government Ministries           1.0         3;0         4.0
Part C - Social Action Program for        2.7        -           2.7
Vulnerable Groups
Part D - Technical Assistance             5.3        -           5.3
70.0       25.0        95.0
Estimated Annual Disbursements (IDA fiscal years)
Credit         FY90                FY91                   Total
-($ million)----------------
IDA            50                    20                      70
ADB             10                   15                      25
TOTAL          60                    35                      95



SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART  I  -  THE  ECONOMY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
A.   Background  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
B. Performance in the 1980s   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Recent Adjustment Programs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Economic Performance 1980-87  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Developments in 1988  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
PART II - THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
A.  The Need for Further Adjustment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
B. Medium-term Macroeconomic Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
C.  External Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
D.  Fiscal Policies  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
E. Monetary Policies  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  15
F. External Financing Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . 17
A.  Introduction   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  17
B.  Performance of the Agricultural Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . 18
C. Prospects for Growth    ..19
D. The Government's Program    ..20
Agricultural Marketing Policies   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Grain Marketing   ..21
Hides and Skins   ..22
Frankincense and Myrrh   ..22
Veterinary Drugs and Equipment, and Veterinary Services   . . 23
Transportation and Financial Services   . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Maritime Transport   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Banking  . .24
Insurance  ..24
Land Tenure   ..25
Public Sector Management Issues   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Policy Analysis and Planning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Cost Recovery  ....  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 26
PART IV -THE IMPACT OF THE PROGRAM ................. . 27
A.  Economic Impact  ....  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 27
B.  Social Impact  ....  .  .   ... ............    .  .  .  .   . 28
C. Measures to Alleviate the Impact of Adjustment on Vulnerable
Groups  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 29
Institution Building for Social Action Planning  .    . . . . 29
Social Policy Support  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 29
Project Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Monitoring   .............  ....  ....   .  30
Framework for Funding   .........  ..  ...  ..  ..   .  30
PART V-  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
A.  The Bank's Portfolio   ......  ..   .....  .  ..  ..  .   .  31
B.  The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program I Credit  . . . . . 31



- it -
Agricultural Policy Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Institutional Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Foreign Exchange Auction and Allocation Mechanisms  . . . . . 32
C.  IDA Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 32
Improving the Policy Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Strengthening Government Institutions .  . . . . . . . . . . 33
Developing Infrastructure   . . . . . . . .. . .  . . . . . 33
The Resource Base: Environment and Human Resources  . . . . . 34
Environment  .......... ...               ......    34
Human Resource   ............ .......   34
D.  Relationship to Other Aid Flows  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
PART VI -THE ASAP II CREDIT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
A. Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 5 . . . . . . . .5
B. Objectives   .........  ....  ...  ...  ...  ..   .  36
C. Credit Description .................... . 36
D. Implementation and Monitoring ............... . 39
E. Agreements Reached   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
F.   Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   42
G. Disbursements, Accounts and Audit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
H. Risks  .........  ..  ...  ...  ..  ...  ...  ..   .  43
PART VII -RELATIONS WITH THE IMF .................. . 45
PART VIII -RECOHMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
List of Annexes
Annex I       Somalia Country Data
Table 1: Economic Indicators
Table 2: Balance of Payments
Table 3: External Financing
Annex II      Status of Bank Group Operations in Somalia
Annex III     Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV      Matrix of Policy Issues, Strategies and Actions in ASAP I
Annex V.      Trends in Production, Area Harvested and Yield for Sorghum
and Maize
Annex VI      Social Action Program - Examples of Possible Projects
Annex VII     Import Verification System - Draft Terms of Reference
9
Annex VIII    Draft Letter of Development Policy and Matrix of Policy
Issues, Strategies and Actions
Annex IX      List of Eligible Items under Parts A and B of the Program
I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit * the Somali Democratic Republic to help finance a Second
AgriculnuLal Sector Adjustment Program. The proposed Development Credit
for $70 million equivalent would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity
of 40 years.
2.        Part I of this report sumarizes Somalia's economic situation.
Part II presents the Government's macro-economic adjustment prograi;.  Part
III describes the issues facing the agricultural sector and the adjiatment
program for the sector. Part IV of the Report assesses the economic and
social impact of the program. Part V sets this operation in the context of
IDA's strategy in Somalia and in the context of past experience with
adjustment lending in Somalia. Part VI describes the present operation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
3.        An economic report entitled "Somalia - Recent Economic
Developments and Medium-Term Prospects' (Report No. 6542-SO), was
distributed to the Executive Directors in February 1987.
A. Background
4.        Somalia is a large and sparsely populated country with a
population of 6 million growing at about 3 percent per annum. The climate
is arid to semi-arid, a major factor in the economy's agricultural
performance and potential. Only a very small portion of the land benefits
from largely seasonal flood irrigation with low water use efficiency. Two
main rivers, the Shebelli and Juba, provide a potential for major
irrigation development. Moderate droughts occur every 3-4 years and major
ones every 8-10 years, causing major swings in livestock numbers and crop
production. In a rather harsh environment the mainstay of the economy has
long been nomadic pastoralism. About half of the population are nomads who
depend on livestock for their livelihood and another 25 percent are
settled farmers. Livestock production has accounted for about 40 percent
of GDP and 60 percent of export earnings. Apart from the traditional
export of livestock, commercial agriculture is centered mainly on the
production and export of banaiss and the production of sugar, sorghum, and
maize for the,domestic market. The agricultural sector as a whole
represents about 60 percent of GDP at factor cost; the share of crop
production is about 13 percent.



- 2 -
5.        Somali manufacturing industry, which contributes only about S
percent of GDP, is dominated by public sector firms. A large majority of
these firms are engaged in the production of consumer goods. Leather and
tanning, potentially a major activity based on the abundance of hides and
skins, currently accounts for less than 5 percent of total manufacturing
output. The existence of several minerals and hydrocarbon resources have
been confirmed, but their exploration is still at an early stage.
6.        Somalia is entirely dependent on external assistance for the
financing of its economic development. It has been successful in obtaining
assistance from abroad including from the oil exporting Arab countries.
Since the mid-1970s the sources of support shifted from the Eastern bloc
countries to multilateral organizations and the OECD countries. Somalia
received between US$300 and US$400 million annually of gross Official
Development Assistance in the 19809 or about US$55-70 per capita.  Another
significant resource was the formal and informal remittances of the Somalis
working in the Gulf countries which are estimated to average between US$50-
70 per capita per annum.
7.        Somalia is neverthelass among the poorest countries in the world
and is classified by the United Nations as a least developed country. Per
capita GDP in 1988 was about US$170, at market exchange rates. Other
indicators of the country's low level of social and economic development
includes an average life expectancy of 46 years; an infant mortality rate
of 130 per thousand; an enrollment rate in primary schools of around 14
percent; and, a ratio of nearly 16,000 persons per physician.
8.        The present regime, following its assumption of power in 1969,
adhered to a program of *scientific socialism' whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, and development through the public
sector and cooperatives. In the early 1970s public ownership and
management expanded both through nationalization and the creatior. of new
public enterprises. During the 1970s, a combination of exogenous factors,
including a drought in 1974/75, an armed conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78,
and inappropriate economic policies led to stagnation in production and
exports. Mismanagement in the overextended public sector eroded incentives
and fostered inefficiencies in resource use. Between 1971 and 1981, the
average annual growth rate of GDP was around 3 percent, implying no growth
in real per capita income.
9.        In the second half of the 1970s. the Government's finances also
deteriorated rapidly, maiLly because of expenditures resulting from the
border conflict with Ethiopia, the cost of maintaining a large number of
refugees, and a growing wage bill associated with a rapid increase in
public sector employment. While foreign aid declined significantly, the
Government's recourse to Central Bank financing rose to record levels in
1979. This, in turn, led to a rapid increase in prices in 1980.
Meanwhile, the stagnation of exports and a surge in imports associated with
weak domestic production and a rapid growth in domestic demand resulted in
large deficits in the current 4;ount of the balance of payments.  Thus,
Somalia entered the 1980s facing an economic and financial crisis
characterized by high inflation, stagnation in production and exports,



- 3
negative domestic savings, depleted foreign exchange reserves, and growing
external debt-service obligations and arrears.
B. Performance in the 198Qs
Recent Adjustment Programs
10.       The 1980-1987 period has been characterized by repeated attempts
on the part of the Government of Somalia to address the serious economic
and financial crisis facing the country. Each attempt met with initial
success but ultimately succumbed to a combination of external shocks and
domestic policy slippages. During this period, Somalia has moved from a
highly controlled economy to a market-oriented economy with a progressive
dismantling of controls. Thus, many of the *difficulties" facing the
economy today relate to the "officially recorded' economy and do not
reflect the underlying vibrance of the unofficial economy which has
responded positively to the reduced role of the State.
11.       During 1981-83 and again during 1985-1987, Somalia undertook
policy ieforms within the framework of Fund suipported programs. Two
stabilization programs were successfully implemented in 1981-83. The
programs included adjustment of the exchange rate, fiscal and monetary
restraint, and significant liberalization of domestic agricultural pricing
and marketing. A Consultative Group for Somalia was convened in 1983 which
pledged substantial support for Somalia's public investment and policy
reform program. The positive effect on the economy of these policies and
the accompanying additional donor support proved temporary as the
introduction of a ban on Somali cattle exports by Saudi Arabia on health
grounds, and a halving of the sorghum output due to a major drought had a
severe adverse effect on output and exports in 1983. The government's
failure to correct for the decline in revenues with expenditure reductions
or other measures caused a sharp increase in the fiscal deficit and fuelled
inflation, thus contributing to a reversal of the modest depreciation of
the real effective exchange rate that took place in 1982. The accompanying
deterioration in the balance of payments resulted in a substantial increase
in arrears on external debt service.
12.       During 1985-1987, the government resumed its adjustment program
supported by a further Fund stand-by arrangement initiated in 1985. The
program was aimed at reducing the large internal and external imbalances
that had reappeared as well as strengthening the structural measures
launched in the earlier program. The centerpiece was a major devaluation of
the exchange rate, the introduction of a foreign exchange retention scheme
for exporters, and the establishment of a legal free market for foreign
exchange. The Government restored more liberal marketing policies by
dismantling remaining price controls and removing restrictions with respect
to foreign trade with the notable exception of fuel and veterinary drugs
imports and the exports of hides and skins, and frankincense and myrrh.
These measures accompanied by good weather resulted in a strong growth
performance in 1985 and a decline in inflation. However, problems emerged



- 4 -
in the external sector resulting from the shortfall in anticipated foreign
exchange inflows from reduced workers" remittances. Coupled with a delay
in the release of previously agreed external assistance, this led to a
shortfall from the target level of imports and the emergence of new
external payment arrears. This in turn resulted in a temporary suspension
of the InF standby and reduced drawings on loans from various multinational
sources and governments. The lower aid receipts and trade related revenues
also adversely affected the fiscal situation and, together with a rapid
expansion in credit to the private sector, resulted in a larger than
planned monetary expansion in this period.
13.       The IMF Standby was extended through 1986 when Somalia cleared
its arrears with the Fund in April 1986. This paved the way for the
processing of the Bank's first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP
1) Credit which was approved by the Board in June 1986. The ASAP I credit,
while supporting the government's policy reforms, provided funds for a
foreign exchange auction which a.lowed traders to bid for foreign exchange
for a wide range of imports. Under the then prevailing system, three main
exchange rates were being used: namely the official exchange rate, the
auction rate and the free market rate as determined by transactions between
foreign exchange account holders at the Commercial and Savings Bank.
14.       Unification of tbhse three exchange rates in an enhanced auction
embracing most transactions was the key element of a new IMF Standby
Arrangement and Structural Adjustment Facility approved in June 1987. These
programs aimed at supporting further adjustment policies set out in a
Policy Framework Paper covering the period 1987-89. A second IDA
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit in support of the new policy
framework was being appraised when Somalia's program implementation came to
an abrupt halt towards the end of September 1987. The Government
terminated the auction system and fixed the exchange rate at US$l = 100 So.
Sh. This represented a 37 percent appreciation of the So. Sh. in local
currency terms from its level at the last auction in mid-September 1987.
An export retention scheme was put in place which allowed exporters to
retain 40 percent of their foreign exchange earnings. Following the
directives of the Party, the Government declared its intention to
reintroduce price controls, which were eventually imposed in February 1988,
on a large number of imported and domestically produced goods. Further
processing of IDA's ASAP II operation was stopped. In the meantime,
disbursements from ASAP I and the IMF program were suspended.
15.       The reason given by the authorities for abandoning the auction
system was that the Government was concerned about the rate at which the
So. Sh. had depreciated in the previous weeks, and its adverse effect on
the cost of living. The main contributing factor to the escalation of the
price of foreign exchange in the auction was a relaxation ir. monetary and
fiscal discipline in the second half of 1987. The budget deficit grew
while credit to the public sector increased dramatically. This led to the
expansion of demand for imports over and beyond the anticipated levels.
Moreover, the resulting decline in the value of the So Sh in the auction
reinforced expectations of further depreciation and, together with the move
to 100 percent surrender of foreign exchange earnings, prompted exporters



- 5 -
to withhold their earnings from the Central Bank. A reduced supply of
foreign exchange, facing an increased demand, produced the decline in the
value of the So. Sh. However, it soon became clear that, after a period of
experimentation with 'liberalization ir the economy, the views of those
opposing it did prevail. Part of this opposition was clearly ideological.
It became obvious also, that the loss of Government control over the
foreign exchange allocations had made the authorities uneasy.
Economic Performance 1980-87
16.       Somalia's economic performance between 1980 and 1987 (see Table
1) under this stop-go policy environment has been mixed. On the one hand,
with the exception of two drought years, economic growth has been
encouraging. This growth has been stimulated by the agricultural sector
(see para 53). which has clearly responded well to the liberalization of
pricing and marketing policies during the 1980s, in contrast to the 19709
when the policy framework depressed farmgate prices and discouraged
production. On the other hand, in almost all other respects, economic
performance has been poor. The investment to GDP ratio has been high
throughout the 19809 (around 30 percent), due to an ambitious public
investment effort financed largely by donor assistance.   However, the
efficiency of resource use in the public sector was low with projects
selected without sufiicient consideration of economic viability. Hence the
returns on this investment have been low. Private investment levels have
been low, reflecting the uncertainties in the policy environment. For most
of the period the availability of substantial external assistance and the
large inflows of workers' remittances have eased the burden on domestic
savings. Domestic public savings rate have been negative throughout this
period (ranging from -2 to -5 percent of GDP), while the rate of national
private savings for the most part has fallen short of private investment.
17.       On the fiscal side, revenues net of grants have averaged a low 6-
8 percent of GDP, while expenditures have varied from 18-31 percent of GDP
resulting in large deficits and a heavy reliance on domestic bank
financing. The low revenue yield reflects weaknesses in tax administration
combined with the large volume of transactions taking place outside the
official economy. This is particularly true of the trade transactions.
The large variations in public expenditure have been primarily on the
investment expenditure side; recurrent expenditures have been more stable
(averaging 11-14 percent of GDP) and rather low, resulting in a substantial
decline in real wages for civil servants (with attendant problems of morale
and efficiency) and a compression of expenditures for essential social
services like health and education. As a result of large fiscal deficits
and generally weak demand management, inflation has averaged about 50
percent per annum between 1980 and 1988. Short term interest rates
remained substantially negative in real terms throughout the period and
this contributed to the very large expansion of credit to the private
sector particularly in the last two years.
18.       The lack of fiscal and monetary discipline has had its impact not
only on domestic prices but on the balance of payments. Despite frequent
devaluations during this period, the real effective exchange rate



Table 1t SOMALIA - Key Economic tndiectore
m9       iee 11 l2 t       193       1934     1905     130 l 1" 97        1906   109U-4
GDP Gerowth  Rat. (at f.                       3.3a      5.31     3,5x   -12.31     0.0rX    U9.21    -3.41    11.2X    -2.7X      2.1 
of which:  Agriculture                        0.31    14.31      1.75   -17.75    14.11    12.011   -$.3X    14.31      2.61      3.11
Percent of ODP:
Current Account Deficit (Inc. grxnt.):         -29.0x   -12.51   -16.9X   -10.4x   -l7.6S   -12.01   -19.6    -6.0X    -9.91   -18.31
Public  Sector SavInga-Inveat. BaIance:         -s.71      2.3X     2.11    -7.11   -17.21    -?.5S   -12.3X    -4.5X    -0.2x    -?.11
Privet* Sector Savinge-lveetmnt Balance:    -11.2X   -14.51   -180.1    -12.33    -9.70    .4.41        2.1$    -1.41     *.21    -0.?s
CPI (period average, growth rote)               50.ox    44.0X    22.0X    86.4X    02.2X    37.01    85.31    2.11x   32.21    40.7X
ReI Effective Exchange Rate (106919)           19.9   113.4        05.2    195.1    167.6    92.0       01.0    51.5      83.0
Annual Change (S)                            41.4X1   10.4    -190.6     19.41    50.71  -44.3X   -34.11   -16.0x    23.1x
R*e a nteret Rates:
Min. Short-term Depoxit Rate                         -3.X   -14.61   -20.4x   -s4.21   -25.31   -23.05   -14. 1X   -42.2X   -84.9X
Min. Short-tOrm Lnding Rate                          -84.6X   -1.01X  -24.4X   -69.2X   -22.SX   -20.31   -18.11   -32.21   -29.31
Rcel Producerr' Pric e  (at 1098  pricer):
Goat (SoSh per hed)                               232.3   340.2    324.1   104.1   172.2   3a4.2    207.0
Sorghum (SoSh per Kg)                               2.9       2.8      2.0      4.2      3.1       2.2      2.0
Maize (SoSh per Kg)                                 2.0       2.2      2.6      5.4      8.0       2.6      8.1
Volume Indx of Export. (10980100)              1990.    142.    144.0       79.9    47.8       92.4     90.9     98.5     59.9
Coc oWity Terms of Trade (19690=19)            19O.9     01.0      92.6    90.2    93.9       90.9      6.2       3.09    95.6
Annual Change (S)                           -16.1X    -8.41      1.31     0.21    -4.41    -8.21   -11.0X      4.3S    14.2S
__-- - ---- -        - - - -      - - -- - ------------- - --- - ------ -   -                   ------ - - -



- 7 -
appreciated sharply through 1984 before depreciating again in 1985-87. The
gap between the effective export exchange rate in the official market and
the parallel market rate remained sufficiently wide to encourage
substantial smuggling of exports. As a result, exports flowing through
official channels stagnated over the period, while imports declined in real
terms but remained three to four times larger than exports. The consequent
large current account deficits (generally over 10 percent of GDP including
grants) contributed to a sharp deterioration in Somalia's extrrnal
indebtedness. The stock of debt climbed three fold from $604 million in
1980 to $2,211 million in 1987. This included arrears totalling $313
million. Of the total debt outstanding and disbursed some $891 million is
owed to multilateral creditors and therefore cannot be rescheduled. The
debt-service ratio has climbed from 42 in 1980 to 1612 in 1987; this
reflects largely the failure of exports to grow and the burden of IMF and
AMF repurchases and charges.
Developments in 1988
19.       Following the cancellation of the foreign exchange auction, the
econquic and financial situation worsened considerably in the latter part
of 1987 and the first half of 1988. The flow of quick disbursing
assistance was adversely affected by the disruption in program
implementation. Imports were drastically reduced due to a decline in
external financing and the diversion of exports to the unofficial market as
the real effective exchange rate appreciated once again. The Government
announced controls over a wide range of prices in February 1988. As
inflation accelerated, shortages of essential goods at the officially
controlled prices became widespread; the balance of payments came under
extreme pressure; and external payments arrears accumulated. Following a
period of expansionary policies, the Government resorted to very tight
fiscal and monetary policies beginning in 1988, but tax revenue continued
to decline drastically in real terms, reflecting the compression of foreign
trade. Inflation, fueled by the large monetary and credit expansion of
1987, kept accelerating until it reached a rate of 150 percent in the
second quarter of 1988.
20.       In July 1988, responding again to the deterioration in the
economic and financial situation, the Government adopted a policy package,
prepared with the assistance of Fund and Bank staff, for the second half of
1988. The package aimed at reducing financial imbalances, moderating
inflationary pressures, improving export competitiveness, and setting the
stage for the reformulation of macroeconomic and structural policies in a
medium-term context.  The key measures taken at that time included:
- a devaluation of the exchange rate by 44 percent in foreign
currency terms and 80 percent in local currency terms;
- the lifting of the price controls introduced in February 1988;
- a continued tight fiscal stance, with specific revenue measures
equivalent to one percent of GDP on a full year basis including an
increase in the tax rate on rental income, introduction of a



-8-
withholding tax on the gross income of banana producers, extending
the coverage of the service tax, changing the tax on fuel from
specific to ad valorem and nearly doubling its effective rate, and
imposinR an airport departure tax; and
- sharp increases in interest rates: the minimum deposit rate was
raised from 12 to 40 percent; the minimum lending rate was raised
from 15 to 50 percent; the Central Bank discount rate was raised
from 12 to 45 percent.
The agreement with the Fund on this policy package triggered the resumption
of program assistance to Somalia. The Fund mission that visited Somalia in
November 1988, with Bank participation, found that, with some minor
deviations, the measures contained in the policy package of mid-1988 were
implemented. The initial results were positive. The fiscal deficit was
substantially lower and inflation decelerated in the last quarter of 1988.
In January 1989, the Government announced a number of new measures, backed
by Party approval, which constitute a major strengthening of the economic
policies and pave the way for structural changes. The likelihood of the
program succeeding this time is much higher, because of a stronger
coammitent on the part of Government than before, and the support given to
reforms by the Party's Central Committee.  The program that has been in
place since mid-1988 is described in detail in the following section.
PART IT - THE MACROECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. The Need for Further Adiustment
21.       Somalia made progress in the 19808 in terms of moving from a
centralized economic regime of the 1970s to a more liberal economic system.
While the implementation of stabilization and adjustment policies has been
uneven and frequently interrupted, the incentive system has been
rationalized to a considerable extent through the dismantling of
agricultural pricing and marketing controls, and changes in the exchange
rate management system. While the implementation of the recently announced
policies will help change the structure of the economy towards an even
stronger market orientation, the economic situation remains precarious. In
1988, the economy continued to face difficulties. The balance of payments
remained under severe pressure, as exports fell to an unusually low level
of US$58 million in 1988. In addition to inadequate economic incentives,
security problems in the Northwest played a major role in the sharp decline
In the export revenue from livestock. GDP at factor cost declined by 2.7
percent (net of the large stock accumulation it declined by 5.1 percent).
Despite a major slowdown in the second half of the year, the point to point
inflation rate at end-year 1988 was 107 percent.
22.       The need for adjustment in the Somali economy is evidenced by
the large number of factors cited in Part I. In an average year, aggregate
consumption exceeds CDP. Domestic savings are very low, in part reflecting
low levels of private savings and in part negative public savings.



-9-
Government revenues meet between a half to one third of ordinary budget
expenditures. Public investment is two and a half to three times as large
as private investment, while the parastatal sector remains, on the whole,
inefficient and unprofitable. On the external side export earnings cover
less than one-fourth of imports, while total debt is almost twice the GDP,
and large arrears have emerged. Even though no viability in the external
sector is foreseen in the medium term, the structure of the economy must be
transformed to facilitate long term growth and viability.
23.       In the absence of other known resources, Somalia's development
prospects are in the agricultural sector. The livestock sub-sector will
continue to be, in the foreseeable future, the major contributor to
Somalia's output, exports and employment. Even though the rangelands are
near maximum carrying capacity, livestock offtake can be substantially
increased by improving animal health services and marketing systems, and
related facilities. The livestock sector can support a much larger
consumption of dairy products and the export of specialized livestock
products. The crop sub-sector has considerable potential, particularly in
high-valued oilseeds, cotton, fruits and vegetables. However, the
potential of the sector can be exploited only through better incentives,
more efficient irrigation and other infrastructure, and support services,
as well as improved marketing arrangements.
24.       In industry, the private sector is too small and inexperienced
to immediately take over and operate most of the large public enterprises.
However, over time, the private sector, which has displayed dynamism in the
trade sector, can play a much bigger role if a more conducive business
climate is established and the confidence in the economic system, which is
lacking due to the frequent reversal of economic policies and to the fear
of political instability, is restored. Therefore, a more decentralized and
less controlled environment is needed to harness the potential for
entrepreneurship.
25.       A reorientation and restructuring in the public sector is also
necessary. A major effort is needed to increase the extremely low share of
government revenue in GDP so that large dependence on external funds for
government expenditure is reduced. Government spending has to be
reoriented to halt the deterioration of infrastructure for lack of
maintenance funds. The share of education and health expenditures in the
total must be raised to meet basic needs in the social sectors. Reform of
the civil service deserves high priority and the low level of remuneration
in public sector employment must be corrected. Wages in the public sector
are well below subsistence levels, which has led to widespread absenteeism,
low morale and poor performance. Adjustment in the public enterprise
sector is also a high priority. This calls for Government divestiture or
liquidation of a number of industrial enterprises, while restructuring the
few that may remain under Government ownership.
26.       As much as these medium- to long-term structural adjustments are
needed, in the short to medium term macroeconomic adjustment is essential.
Achieving economic stabilization, establishing and maintaining a realistic
exchange rate, reducing fiscal imbalances, and limiting monetary expansion



- 10 -
are the necessary ingredients of achieving sustained growth in the economy.
As indicated earlier, frequent changes in macroeconomic policies in the
past and the overall inadequacy of these policies have eroded incentives
for production, and more specifically for exporting through formal
channels. However, the momentum needs to be maintained by continuous
monitoring of the designated policies and making further adjustments in the
areas of exchange rate, and fiscal and monetary policies.
27.       Recognizing this, the Government, with the assistance of Bank
and Fund staff, has developed an adjustment program aimed at restoring
macro-economic stability. and establishing a macro-economic framework
conducive to sustained economic growth. At the same time, the program lays
special emphasis on establishing a policy and institutional environment
which would maintain and enhance the growth of output and exports in the
agricultural sector, which dominates the economy of Somalia. IDA's Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program is intended to support the
Government's overall adjustment program while helping to sustain and deepen
reforms in the agricultural sector initiated under ASAP I and earlier. The
remainder of this Part of the Report summarizes the proposed macro-economic
framework described in more detail in the Second Policy Framework Paper
which was endorsed by the Committee of the Whole on April 25, 1989, while
Part III of the Report describes the second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program.
B. Medium-term Macroeconomic Program
28.       The Government's macro-economic program provides a consistent
and comprehensive package of macroeconomic policies designed to address the
goals of stabilization and growth. The key macroeconomic objectives of the
program, as spelt out in the PFP, include: (i) raising the rate of growth
of real GDP, at factor cost, to almost 5 percent in the medium term; (ii)
reducing progressively the external current account deficit; and, (iii)
containing the rate of inflation to about 39 percent by end-1989, 20
percent by end-1990, and 13 percent by end-1991.
29.       In line with these objectives, the   erall fiscal deficit,
including grants, will be reduced from the equivalent of about 8 percent of
GDP in 1988 to approximate balance during the period 1989-91. The fiscal
deficit, excluding grants, will decline more gradually from a little over
18 percent in 1988 to 14.4 percent in 1991. The fiscal adjustment will
require a tight lid on expenditures and a substantial revenue effort.
Accordingly, the share of total revenue net of grants is projected to rise
from an all-time low of 5.3 percent of GDP in 1988 to 10.2 percent in 1991,
while total expenditures will remain around 25 percent of GDP before they
start to decline gradually in 1991. Given the level of anticipated
external financing, including debt relief, this will result in large
repayments by the Government to the domestic banking system. This, in
turn, will permit a substantial increase in domestic credit to the private
sector, while still maintaining a moderate rate of expansion of the money
supply.



- 11 -
30.       On the external side, a relatively modest but sustained export
growth is expected to be realized in the medium term through the
establishment and maintenance of a realistic exchange rate for the So. Sh..
and the dismAntling of government monopolies affecting the export trade.
In 1989, export earnings are expected to grow by about 41 percent from a
low base, reaching a level still below the 1987 level. Such a projected
increase in exports is based on robust assumptions regarding completion of
the Bossasso port construction works by mid-1989, adaptation by livestock
traders to alternative marketing routes instead of the traditional port of
Berbera, the lifting of the ban by Saudi Arabia on cattle imports from
Somalia, the dissolution of state monopolies in the export trade, and much
higher price incentives than in the first half of 1988. In the medium term
the annual export growth rate is projected at around 10 percent. Much of
this growth represents a shift out of unofficial exports to official
channels. After recovering by about 26 percent in 1989, import growth is
estimated at around 5 percent in 1990, and the growth rate will marginally
decline thereafter due mainly to restrained expenditure on public
Investment projects. However, non-project imports are expected to nearly
double in 1989, and will grow at 7 percent annually in dollar terms in
1990-91. As a result of these developments, the current account deficit
will rise to US$337 million in 1989 from a level of US$286 million in 1988.
The deficit will gradually decline thereafter, but still remain well over
the 1988 level in the medium term.
31.       The program calls for moderation in total investment which rose
to excessive levels on account of high donor support for the public
investment program. While the share of total investment in GDP will
marginally decline in the medium term from around the 30 percent level, the
share of public investment will fall from about 90 percent of the total to
a little over 60 percent, within the next five years.  The size of the
public investment program is projected to decline from US$190 million in
1988 to US$170 million in 1989, before it goes up to US$175 million in 1990
and 1991, in current dollar terms. A more carefully scrutinized and leaner
public investment program will be implemented which will lessen the burden
on the fiscal side. Meanwhile, private investment is projected to register
a relatively large increase due to enhanced opportunities of economic
activity and a high level of import availability compared with 1988.
Domestic savings, which were negative in most recent years, are expected to
gradually become positive, and together with the anticipated high level of
concessional aid flows, to contribute to the financing of investment.
C. External Policies
32.       A major step taken towards economic adjustment was the
devaluation of the So. Sh. by 44 percent in foreign currency terms, in June
1988, and pegging it to a basket of currencies of the country's main
trading partners. Since then, the authorities have adjusted the exchange
rate weekly to reflect changes in the cross rate of currencies in the
basket, and to correct for the relative rate of inflation in Somalia with
respect to its major trading partners. Under the current system, exporters
are allowed to continue to retain 40 percent of their export earnings to be



- 12 -
credited to their import-export account with the Commercial Bank to be used
only for appi ved I..ports.
33.       To rationalize the use of foreign exchange resources, a non-
discriminatory and transparent system has been put in place, temporarily,
for the allocation of private sector imports financed by the commodity
assistance programs. At the beginning of each month, the authorities
announce the amount of foreign exchange available under this system.
Importers submit their requests for foreign exchange allocation to the
Central Bank, accompanied by a nonrefundable fee in domestic currency
equivalent to 10 percent of the amount requested. All requests are honored
on a prorata basis. The official exchange rate applies to all
transactions. The effective application fee will exceed 10 percent when
the foreign exchange allocated falls short of the total amount requested.
The current system approximates an auction in that the price of foreign
exchange rises when demand exceeds supply. Foreign exchange available under
commodity import programs will continue to be allocated under the present
arrangements, until a further review by the Fund and the Bank.
34.       The Government will adhere to the principle that the official
exchange rate reflects the supply and demand for foreign exchange. This is
imnortant fron the point of view of improving the competitiveness of,the
economy, expanding the markets for traditional exports, promoting output of
nontraditional exports and import substitutes, and channeling trade and
workers' remittances through the formal economy. To further improve the
competitiveness of the Somali economy and narrow the gap between the
official and free market rates, the Government is commit'ed to make
discrete adjustments in the exchange rate, when necessary, over and above
the weekly adjustments to reflect the changes in cross rates in the
currency basket, and to correct for the inflation rate differential vis-a-
vis trading partners. Indeed, the exchange rate was depreciated by a
further 10 percent in local currency terms in February 1989, by 5 percent
in March 1989. and by a further 5 percent in April 1989.
35.       As indicated, the Government places a special emphasis on
maintaining the competitiveness of Somali exports through appropriate
exchange rate policies. Somali official exports are very sensitive to
changes in the effective exchange rate for exports. Any significant
deviation from the market rate causes a major decline in exports through
the formal channels. Therefore, the maintenance of competitive rates is
essential for the realization of the program's export targets. A study is
being carried out, with support from USAID, to examine the competitiveness
of the main export products, most notably livestock. After the study is
completed in June 1989, the changes in export competitiveness will
periodically be reviewed by the Government. The Central Statistics
Department of the Ministry of National Planning will coordinate these
reviews with relevant ministries and institutions.
36.       In addition to a flexible and realistic exchange rate policy,
the Government will rely on supporting policies to promote and diversify
exports, to penetrate new markets and regain old ones. Such efforts have
already led to the lifting of the ban on Somalia cattle exports to Saudi



- 13 -
Arabia in March 1989. With this in view, the Government's January 1989
policy package includes measures designed to enable private participation
in banking, insurance, and shipping. Also, the changes in policies with
respect to the liberalization of domestic and export trade in hides and
skins, as well as in frankincense and myrrh, (described in Part III) will
contribute to the promotion of exports in these areas.
D. Fiscal Policies
37.       The central government's financial operations have generated
large deficits in recent years, which required substantial financing from
the domestic banking system, with expected consequences on inflation rates.
As the revenue performance deteriorated, the share of expenditures in GDP
grew noticeably. Moreover, the total expenditures have been biased in
favor of investment expenditures at the expense of recurrent expenditures.
This has led to inefficiencies in expenditure planning and the
deterioration of existing infrastructure and services. In addition, there
has been serious underfunding of health and education sectors. Also, the
shrinking relative size of wage expenditures has caused difficulties in the
management and operation of the civil service machinery.
38.       Under the program, the Government will aim at reducing sharply
the overall cash budget deficit to moderate inflationary pressures, while
providing adequate financing to the private sector. This will result in
large net repayments by the Government to the domestic banking system,
given the level of anticipated net external financing. In the immediate
future, reliance on external resources will continue to finance not only
investment but also, to a gradually declining extent, recurrent
expenditures. However, over the long run, the objective is to realize a
surplus on ordinary operations which would partially be directed to finance
capital outlays. In an effort to enhance budgetary discipline, quarterly
targets for both revenue and expenditure will be established. Also, with
the help of technical assistance currently in place, the Government will
revamp its accounting practices and increase the transparency of the fiscal
data to facilitate a quick response to changing circumstances.
39.       On the revenue side, in view of the sharp decline in the ratio
of revenue to GDP, the objective will be to raise this ratio from about 5.3
percent in 1988 to 7.3 percent in 1989 and to 10.2 percent in 1991. The
increase in 1989 will result mainly from the full-year impact of the 1988
tax measures (described in para 20), the widening of the trade-related tax
base due to a depreciating exchange rate as well as higher import volumes,
and the impact of the new system of import verification. A committee has
been set up in the Ministry of Finance and Revenue, to make recommendations
for modification of the tax structure, broadening the tax base, improving
incentives, and strengthening tax administration. The work of the
Committee will benefit from the recently completed UNDP and USAID sponsored
studies. The recommendations of the Committee will be incorporated in
stages over the period 1989-91. In addition, the IMF is providing
technical assistance in the field of tax administration.



- 14 -
40.       The Government will put in place an import verification system
in the second half of 1989 to control over-invoicing and irregular
invoicing which constitute a drain on foreign exchange, and to boost the
revenue collection efforts, To this end, the services of an
internationally recognized specialized firm will be employed to assist the
customs service in verifying the contents and value of all import shipments
and in assigning the appropriate duty rate. The same consulting firm will
provide technical assistance and training for the local staff. The tariff
system will also be reviewed by consultants under ASAP 1I funding, and the
Government will make the necessary adjustments based on the consultants'
recomuendations. This tariff review will be of an interim nature to ensure
that the import verification system is not implemented in conjunction with
unreasonable tariff levels. The Government has agreed to complete a
thorough tariff review by March 1990 (see Annex VIII). Implementation of a
revised tariff structure for Somalia's main imports to be agreed with IDA
and a functioning import verification system satisfactory to IDA will be
second tranche release conditions under the credit.
41.       The Government has asked the Bank to carry out a comprehensive
review of public expenditures, with a view to restrain and rationalize the
growth in expenditures, and to improve the efficiepcy in resource use.
Particular attention will be paid to the sectoral distribution of ordinary
expenditures to ensure that the decline in the share of the social sectors
is halted and the need for maintenance expenditures is properly addressed.
Employment and wage levels will also be closely examined with a view to
reverse the declines in real wages, through increases in salaries. Subject
to the findings of the aforementioned study, the authorities have already
decided to begin a phased reallocation of expenditure in favor of economic
and social services, increasing their share to at least 15 percent in 1989,
18 percent in 1990, and 20 percent in 1991. Also an action plan has been
prepared to reduce outlays on foreign representation which has a
disproportionate weight in public expenditures and takes up a large portion
of export earnings. Accordingly these outlays will be reduced by 14
percent in terms of foreign exchange in 1989, and by a further 33 percent
over the following two years.
42.       In the context of the public expenditure review, the public
sector investment program will also be reviewed with respect to its level,
sectoral distribution and project content. In particular, preparations on
building a multi-purpose dam on the Juba river (the Baardhere dam) have
advanced to a stage where a final project appraisal may be done in FY91,
subject to the resolution of the riparian rights issue and mobilization of
donor support. If realized, the project will have far reaching impact on
power supplies, agricultural production, and flood mitigation. The
financing of this project will require extraordinary external support for
the capital costs and place heavy demands on the Government's own
resources. Therefore, if a decision is made to carry out the project, it
will affect both the size and distribution of public expenditures.
Although the bulk of these expenditures are likely to fall beyond the
program period, the forthcoming public expenditure review will assess the
financial implications of the dam construction and its macro-economic
effects.



- 15 -
43.       The public expenditure review vill be completed in time for its
recommendations to be incorporated into the 1990 budget. Agreement with
IDA on the three-year public investment Program covering 1990-92, and
incorporation in the FY1990 budget of measures agreed with IDA based on the
review of public expenditures, will be second tranche release conditions of
the credit.
E. Monetary Policies
44.       The objective of the monetary and credit policies is to help
reduce the high rate of inflation in combination with a more prudent fiscal
policy, and to alleviate the pressures on the balance of payments. To
achieve the target of reducing the inflation rate from 40 percent in the
last quarter of 1988 to about 20 percent by end-1989 and to 10 percent by
end-1991, the rate of domestic credit expansion will be reduced sha,ply,
and the increase in money supply will be limited to 28 percent in 1989.
However, due to the projected large net repayments to the banking sector by
the government, the productive private sector will have adequate access to
the banking system. The expansion of credit to the private sector is
projected at 89 percent in 1989.                   ,
45.       The Government will continue to pursue an active and flexible3
interest rate policy.  As noted in para 20, the interest rate structure was
simplified in August 1988, and deposit and lending rates were raised to 40
and 50 percent respectively. Interest rates became positive in real terms
in the last quarter of 1988.    The Government stands ready to adjust the
rates in either direction in the coming months depending on inflation
trends, to ensure that the real rates remain positive. In parallel with
interest rate policy, reserve requirements will be kept under close review
to absorb liquidity of the Commercial and Saving Bank, as necessary.
46.       The financial situation of the government-owned Commercial Bank
was seriously weakened due to the unprecedented credit expansion in late
1987. Currently, an international accounting firm is under contract to
audit its accounts for 1987 and 1988. Based on this audit, the Government
will prepare an action plan by mid-1989 to address the Conmmercial Bank's
financial problems. Also, a law was enacted recently opening the banking
system to the private sector and to foreign banks and financial
institutions, to enhance competition in the banking area. The Government
will design effective control mechanisms to ensure that the commercial
banks observe overall credit ceilings and provide timely information about
their credit operations to the Central Bank. At the same time, the Central
Bank will strengthen its monitoring and supervision procedures in order to
detect deviations on a timely basis.
F. External Financing Requirements
47.       Somalia faces a serious external debt situation in the medium
term. More than 40 percent of total outstanding external debt, including
the arrears of principal, is owed to multilateral institutions ($973



- 16 -
million). At the end of 1988, total arrears amounted to US$428 million, of
which US$168 million was due to multilateral institutions, including US $77
million to the Fund. Arrears, excluding those on "frozen" debt to some
Eastern-bloc countries, estimated at US$266 million, are projected to be
eliminated over the period 1989-91 with a rescheduling of all bilateral
arrears in 1989 and a gradual reduction in multilateral arrears. The
settlement of these arrears, in addition to current obligations, will not
be possible without substantial cash assistance in addition to debt relief
on exceptionally favorable conditions.
48.       The balance of payments and external financing requirement
projections for the program are shown in Annex I. Under these projections,
the total financing requirements are US$1,578 million in 1989-91, including
current account deficits of US $966 million. Somalia will begin reducing
arrears to bilateral creditors in 1989 and eliminate all outstanding
arrears by 1991. To this end, Somalia will seek debt rescheduling from the
Paris Club and all other official bilateral creditors for all outstanding
arrears and interest, as well as principal falling due during the 1989-91
period. After 1991 the external situation is expected to become more
manageable as debt service obligations decline substantially. Financing
expected from existing and anticipated new committpnts is mainly in the
form of commodity aid, project financing and general import financing
amounting to US$925 million in 1989-91. The total level of SPA support
expected in 1989-91 amounts to US$328 million. The SPA pledges already
identified for 1989 and 1990 total US$112 million. Anticipated new
commitments will likely cover all residual import financing requirements.
While this level of financing will meet Somalia's import financing
requirements, tha program permdts only a modest increase in per capita
private consumption and would clearly benefit from a higher level of import
support.
49.        Somalia has accumulated sizeable arrears with the Fund during
the course of last year. However, because the country's foreign exchange
reserves have been virtually depleted and the balance of payments is
severely constrained, the solution to the problem of overdue obligations to
the Fund will have to coev mainly from Somalia's donors. A Support Group
for Somalia is being formed to mobilize cash resources needed to clear, in
late 1989 or early 1990, the overdue obligations to the Fund frozen at end-
1988, thereby opening the way for the Fund's active contribution to filling
in Somalia's financing gap in 1990. Meanwhile in 1989, the program has a
cash financing deficit of US$172 million, of which US$76 million
corresponds to the frozen arrears to the Fund outstanding at end-1988 after
adjusting for exchange rate fluctuations. This leaves a cash financing gap
of US$96 million for 1989. Even with the projected cash support from Italy
and the US amounting to US$30 million and a freeze on arrears to the Fund
at end-1988, there remains an unfinanced cash gap of about US$66 million.
The Support Group for Somalia is expected to address the issue of closing
the remaining gap, in the coming months.



- 17 -
PART III - AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A. Introduction
50.       The agricultural sector is the backbone of the Somali economy,
since it accounts for nearly 60 percent of GDP, 95 percent of exports, and
about 80 percent of employment. The domination of the economy by the
agricultural sector will continue for many years because of the extremely
small size of the manufacturing sector and the unpromising prospects for
its rapid growth. Agricultural activities are built on relatively abundant
resources in relation to the population of Somalia, but their exploitation
requires judicious management, sound support services, and adequate
infrastructure, as well as a policy environment conducive to private
initiative. Therefore, because of its relative size, its prospects for
growth, and the urgency of the issues to be addressed, the agricultural
sector has been the main focus of the Government's adjustment program. 11
51.       In the 1980s, the Government has taken a number of steps to
improve the overall policy environment for agricultural production. The
first ASAP credit supported the Government's policy initiatives in a number
of areas ( Anne= IV). Despite encouraging developments, however, further
actions were needed to achieve the objective of removing controls and
government monopolies on trade and services. The momentum on these actions
was lost when the implementation of the program was interrupted in
September 1987. However, as indicated in Part II, there has been a major
turnaround in the Government's attitude towards the necessary reforms since
mid-1988. Liberalization policies with respect to trade in hides and
skins, frankincense and myrrh, removal of restrictions on the importation
of veterinary drugs, and removal of monopolies on banking, insurance and
maritime transportation have long been on the agenda for policy dialogue
between the Government and IDA. By taking these significant up-front
actions, the Government demonstrated its commitment and paved the way for
further deepening of the reform process.
52.       Policies aimed at improved performance of the agricultural
sector would have only limited success unless they are backed by an
appropriate macroeconomic policy environment. Therefore the ASAP prog-am
will rely heavily on the maintenance of such a framework. An important
element of the macroeconomic program is the exchange rate policy, as
described earlier. Without an appropriate exchange rate, it would not be
possible to maintain agricultural incentives. Also without sufficient
foreign exchange, the availability of which is closely relited to increases
in export earnings and the steady flow of external assistance, the
objectives of ASAP could not be achieved. Therefore, these two aspects of
the Government's adjustment program are closely interrelated.
1/   The Bank has prepared a review of the agricultural sector in Somalia.
See report No. 6131-SO, 'Somalia - Agricultural Sector Survey - Main
Report and Strategy', December 30, 1987.



- 18 -
B. Performance of the Agricultural Sector
53.       Over the period 1980-88, the agricultural sector, including
crops, livestock, forestry and fishing, contributed on average 63 percent
of GDP at factor cost. Livestock and livestock products accounted for
about 47 percent, crop production 13 percent, forestry 2 percent and
fisheries about one percent. Total GDP growth in agriculture over these
years w3s about 3.1 percent per annum. The growth of GDP from livestock
production has been relatively slow at around 2.3 percent per annum which
was partly *,he result of limited carrying capacicy on the rangelands, but
also due to an adverse policy environment, which reduced productivity and
market opportunities. Crop production, after many years of stagnation,
increased rapidly in the early 1980's following deregulation of the grain
market. Since 1980 the value of crop production has increased at about 6.1
percent per annum, while the output of sorghum and maize increased by about
5.1 and 15.3 percent respectively.
54.       As shown in Annex V the longer term trend in the major food
grain production is heavily influenced by increases in area harvested,
although in recent years yields have been increasing appreciably. An
important underlying factor leading to Increases in production for maize
and sorghum was the introduction of a free market for all grains in
1983/84. Prices paid to producers by the Government grain purchasing
monopoly had been falling significantly in real terms during the 1970s; the
Government purchased between 20 to 35 percent of total production. The
increased producer prices after decontrol had a substantial impact on
production. Although historical data are at times suspect, statistical
analysis indicated that, while rainfall and other environmental factors
were important, production increases for maize could be explained in large
part by the previous year's average price received by farmers. The same
data suggested that the area of maize harvested was also influenced by the
increased prices to producers. The data on sorghum indicated that price
had a similar influence on area harvested and output. It is expected that
in future yield increases will make a greater contribution to production
growth than area.
55.       Rapid changes in crop production had a major impact on grain
imports. The years of stagnation had resulted in increasing annual grain
imports which peaked at almost 400,000 tons in 1981, about equal to
domestic grain production. About half of this volume was food aic. Since
that time dependence on external food grain supplies h.as declined markedly.
ln recent years total imports have fallen to an average of about 250,000
tons per annum, including food aid going to refugees. The share of food
aid in external supplies has varied considerably; in 1985 it was the
dominant source of external grain supply accounting for at least three
quarters of the total. However in 1986 and 1987 the share decreased to a
more regular level of about 55 percent; half being food intended for
refugees. Per capita consumption of grain and cereal products does appear
to have increased also since the late seventies when it vas measured at
about 117 kg. per annum In a household survey in Mogadishu. In another
household survey in Mogadishu in 1984/85 per capita consumption per annum



- 19 -
was measured at 120 kg. Estimates of food consumption in rural areas
indicate much higher per capita consumption levels.
56.       The impact of the grain marketing and pricing policy changes on
output stands out as an important demonstration of the impact of the
decontrol of markets on production. This is important also because a
rapidly growing and more diversified crop production will provide
additional employment opportunities. The past success with the decontrol
of grain markets and the objective of increasing the rate of growth in the
economy have been contributing factors leading to the Government taking
further steps to eliminate the remaining controls on agricultural pricing
and marketing.
C. Prospects for Growth
57.       The main sources of growth for the agricultural sector are the
livestock and crop sub-sectors. Currently, the livestock sub-sector is
heavily dependent on the carrying capacity of the natural range. There are
indications from ongoing research work, however, that the rangelands are at
or near their limit of carrying capacity. Nevertheless growth in offtake
from the rangelands is projected to increase because selling age can be
reduced when marketing facilities are improved and livestock health
enhanced. There are also substantial opportunities for increased livestock
production in mixed farming areas in Southern Somalia where animals can
graze on crop residues and improved pastures could be developed. In
addition, particularly in the southern areas, there will also be a trend
towards a younger age of turn off resulting in a short term increase in
output. In future the rangelands will remain heavily involved in the
export sector but with an increased proportion coming from the southern
mixed farming areas. The livestock sub sector will continue as the most
important component of agriculture, growing at a projected average rate of
2-3 percent per annum. In the short to medium run, growth may be higher if
younger animals can be sold.
58.       Sound output performance of the crop sub-sector was a major
cause for improved incomes and employment in rural areas, and the
substantial reduction in food aid. The main source of growth in crop
production in the past was area expansion; in general, yield improvements
were either non existent or very small with the exception of irrigated
maize and rice. In the coming years, crop production will benefit from new
incentives that will stimulate intensification of grain production based on
rehabilitation and development of irrigation, and the exploitation of the
opportunities for diversification of rainfed crop production. While about 1
million ha are used for crops at present, it is estimated that this area
could be at least doubled in the foreseeable future. It will take time
before this potential area is developed, but a significant proportion of
the additional area will be in the Shebelli and Juba valleys where the
rehabilitation and development of irrigation systems will be taking place
in future. On the basis of known technology and prospective irrigation
rehabilitation crop production is expected to increase by at least 5
percent per annum over the next five years.



- 20 -
59.       In addition to its contribution to income and employment,
increased crop production will have other beneficial effects on the
economy. It will encourage import substitution in rice, oilseeds, and
cotton. Second, it will help diversify exports, by first increasing banana
exports and later increasing exports of other fruits, and in the longer
run, possibly vegetables and flowers. Finally, it will provide
4ditional feed supplies for animals on mixed farms. This supplementary
feeding will enable younger turn off age for live animals for export and
domestic consumption, as well as increased domestic supplies of milk and
poultry products.
60.       The longer run achievements will not be possible without
considerable technical progress. The Government is therefore placing
renewed emphasis on research. Agricultural research in Somalia has lagged
behind improvements in the agricultural extension service. In the short
term research strategy in Somalia needs to be directed to adapting
technologies to make maximum use of existing capacity for food crop
production and improving water management in irrigation areas. The longer
term strategy includes institution building for manpower training and
development, the formulation of programs for improved animal health,
diversification and increased crop yields, and improved farming systems.
Extension programs should reinforce progress already made, with an emphasis
first on irrigated areas and later support to rainfed areas while reducing
extension delivery costs for the whole program. A second IDA-assisted
Agricultural Extension project (Cr. 1794-SO) was approved in FY89 following
the completion of the first extension project (Cr. 905-SO). Also, major
commitments have been made by USAID and CIDA to the strengthening of
research through investment in facilities and manpower development, and an
IDA-assisted Agricultural Research Project is being considered for FY92.
D. The Government's Program
61.       The Government sees agriculture continuing as the leading sector
of the economy, growing at around 4 percent per annum, becoming more
diversified, increasing export income and contributing more to domestic
food supply and employment. The Government's program aims to remove or
alleviate constraints tc stimulate growth in the agricultural sector. The
constraints to increased livestock output include: the inefficiencies in
the marketing of livestock and animal products; the scarcity of veterinary
drugs and services; the inadequacy of shipping and insurance facilities;
and, the low carrying capacity of the range and limited supplementary feed
supplies. Constraints on growth in the crop sub-sector are: the
insufficient development of the extension support system; the inadequacy of
agricultural research capacity with respect to a number of techniques (crop
rotation, crop management practices, and diversification opportunities);
the inefficient use of the existing irrigation system; and, the inadequate
land tenure policy and cumbersome administration.
62.       The Government's program addresses a large number of these
issues, particularly those in the area of policy. In fact, most of the
required policy changes have been made up-front. The proposed credit will



- 21 -
closely monitor the actual implementation of these policies in the coming
months. Other constraints are dealt with under specific projects. In
addition to the agriculture-specific policy issues, the present program
also addresses public sector management issues in selected areas. These
includet the review and restructuring of the public expenditures,
including public sector investments; cost recovery in the public sector;
public enterprise restructuring, rehabilitation and where appropriate
divestiture; and improvement of the Government's policy analysis and
planning capability.
Agricultural Marketing Policies
63.       Grain Marketing.  An important step in the liberalization of the
agricultural markets was the elimination of the Government's monopoly on
grain marketing in 1984. Until then, farmers were legally required to sell
all production to the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC). The ADC
now operates as a buyer of last resort in the market for coarse grains. As
part of this strategy, the Government announces minimum support prices at
or before planting time; these prices have usually been between import and
export parity. This policy aims at ensuring that incentives for private
sector grain trade are not detrimentally affected by ADC intervention,
while at the same time ensuring that the food security of low income groups
is not jeopardized because of increases in the prices of staple grains. In
addition, ADC, together with the National Commercial Agency (ENC), handles
sales of food aid. Currently, about 50 percent of food aid goes to
refugees. About 25 percent is sold in the local market through ENC and ADC
and the remainder is distributed to government agencies such as the army,
jails and ministries for the feeding of employees. Under ASAP I, the
Government has made improvements in food aid management in order to avoid
undermining of local grain production. All food aid in the form of grain
and flour, as well as vegetable oils, was sold at prices determined in a
food aid auction with a floor price set at import parity. In accordance
with ASAP I conditions, the Government also transferred food aid to public
institutions at prices no less than those determined at the most recent
food aid auction. The continued implementation of these agreed actions
will be monitored under the proposed credit.
64.       Recent developments, however, show that r i issues have opened
up concerning the grain marketing arrangements. T e financial status of
both ADC and ENC is precarious; their losses are increasing every year as
business volumes decrease and they have become a burden on Government
resources. The organization and management structures are obsolete, and
there is a considerable amount of excess capacity, both in terms of
manpower and storage facilities, given the reduced functions the two
agencies are performing. There is also a duplication of functions as food
aid management is increasingly the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance and Revenue. The role of these two agencies and the need for their
existence need to reassessed. In addition, Somalia's food aid management
can be improved through better coordination between GOS and donors on the
timing of arrival of food shipments, and a defined strategy on how to use
food aid to improve food security.



- 22 -
65.       A study financed under the ASAP I credit is being carried out on
the management and operations of ADC and ENC. The study will contain
recommendations on an action plan for the future of the two agencies.
Under the proposed ASAP II credit, the Government will review the
recommendations of this study jointly with IDA. ABreement between the
Government and IDA on an action plan for the institutional development of
ADC and ENC will be a condition of release of the second tranche of the
credit. The action plan will include measures to improve the management of
food aid. Criteria for an acceptable plan include: (i) establishment of a
strategy for changing the current institutional structure of grain
marketing; (ii) definition of the future need for and role of ADC and ENC;
(iii) identification of those responsible for implementing the
institutional change; (iv) assessment of the costs of the institutional
change and identification of the sources of funding; and (v) timetable of
specific implementation steps.
66.       Hides and Skins.  Since 1973 the Government has held monopoly
control over the domestic and external trade in hides and skins through the
Hides and Skins Agency (HASA) and since 1981 the Somali Leather Agency
(SLA). The reasons the Government gave for its control of the trade were
to ensure the quality of exports, and eliminate smuggling and the sale of
skins from protected animals. However, the monopoly led to increased
smuggling and a decline in the official value of hides and skins exports,
thereby reducing the country's official export income. Official sheep and
goat skin exports were only about half the annual slaughtering. Under ASAP
I the Government agreed to the preparation of a study of the hides and
skins trade which would form the basis of an action plan for reforms in the
hides and skins industry as a condition of the second tranche for ASAP I.
The study was completed and the Government agreed to decontrol the domestic
hides and skins trade, but not the export market. As a result, there was
no significant increase in official exports.
67.       In January 1989 the Government decided to decontrol both the
export and domestic trade in hides and skins. The objective of this policy
change is to increase the exports of hides and skins traded through the
official market. In the short run the value of official hides and skins
exports could double from an annual average of about US$6 million to US$12
million, assuming effective exchange rates move to realistic levels. Local
Government and private capacity already exists to process about 60 percent
of all sheep and goat skins available from domestic slaughtering. As the
use of these facilities increases and private tanning capacity is expanded,
the annual value of hides and skins exports could increase to about $20
million, within five to ten years.
68.       Frankincense and Myrrh.  Somalia is the largest world producer
of frankincense and myrrh (two different types of gum resins). These
products are produced from trees in north and south west Somalia. There has
for many years been a monopoly in the marketing and exports of these
products, through the Frankincense and Gums Trading Branch in the Union of
Somali Cooperatives. The Branch had, until February 1989, the sole right to
buy gums from the 54 collection cooperatives. The recorded annual value of
official exports is about $2 million at present. It is estimated, however,



_ 23 -
that the actual total trade value through Djibouti and Aden is about $12
million per annum. The Government removed the monopoly powers of the
cooperative officially in February 1989. The decontrol of the marlket,
coupled with realistic exchange rate policies, is expected to stimulate
more trade through formal channels.
69.       Veterinary Drugs and Equipment, and Veterinary Services.  It is
estimated that about $4 million worth of veterinary drugs is used by the
livestock industry in Somalia at present. In February 1989, the Government
officially announced the complete decontrol of all trade in veterinary
drugs. Formerly, imports of most of these drugs were through Government
channels. The controls created black markets for drugs which were sold at
highly inflated prices. Substandard veterinary drugs were also
unofficially imported from Kenya and Djibouti. It is anticipated that
decontrol of the market, coupled with the availability of private
veterinarians to advise on and sell drugs, will result in improved
availability of veterinary drugs at open market prices and improved animal
health. This, in turn, will help increase production and facilitate
exports by addressing the concerns of importers from Somalia who have in
previous years complained about the health of Somali livestock. The
Government needs to establish the necessary regulations to ensure that
qualified veterinary drug importers can be registered in a non
discriminatory fashion and ensure that safety standards are maintained.
The Government has also announced that qualified veterinarians will
henceforth, following establishment of a licensing procedure, be allowed to
practice freely.
Transportation and Financial Services
70.       The above program of policy measures in agriculture is important
because it should provide increased opportunities for production and trade
for agricultural and livestock producers. The Government has gone further,
however, and has taken steps to remove controls on transportation and
financial services which have a direct impact on producers and traders of
crops and livestock, as well as a number of other products. The
Government's actions in these areas are described below.
71.       Maritime Transport.    Until the Government announcement in
February 1989 to decontrol all maritime shipping services, the Government
had regulated maritime transport since 1974. It exercised these powers
through the Ministry of Marine Transportation, Ports and Fisheries. The
Ministry controlled three separate agencies namely, the Somali Shipping
Agency and Line, the Somali Shipping Corporation and the Somali Port
Authority. The two shipping agencies had powers over all coastal shipping
including charters, issuing bills of lading, providing ships' provisions,
and preparing arrival and departure manifests. They also issued visas to
ships. The centralized system of control over charters was particularly
cumbersome, and caused considerable delay and uncertainty. Delays resulted
in additional costs for livestock feeding in holding yards, and the
uncertainties had detrimental effects on markets for Somali sheep and
goats. These difficulties were compounded as sheep and goat exporters were
charged set fees of US$6 per hea'd for freight from Berbera to Jeddah



- 24 -
compared to rates about two-thirds this figure quoted by private charter
companies. The decontrol of maritime shipping which removes the exclusive
powers of the agencies mentioned above should result in substantial
improvements in shipping transport efficiency and lower costs for
agriculture (particularly livestock exports) and other sectors of the
economy.
72.       Banking.  Until recently, the banking sector has been limlited to
only two Government banks, the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia
(CSBS) and the Somali Development Bank (SDB). Only one of these banks, the
CSBS, has branch offices and accepts deposits. It lends short-term (10-12
months). The SDB, which has a centralized management structure, is mainly
involved in medium-term lending (2-6 years) for development purposes.
There is virtually no long-term lending. There are many shortcomings in
CSBS and the SDB originating mainly from their limited capacity to
adequately evaluate loan proposals, monitor use of funds, recover
repayments and implement credit ceilings.  IDA has provided assistance to
SDB in the past to strengthen the institution, but the results fell short
of expectations. Subsequently technical assistance has been provided to
SDB and CSBS by the Federal Republic of Germany through GTZ.
73.       In February 1989, the existing banking law was officially
amended to allow the establishment of private banks; the Government, with
the assistance of the Fund, is in the process of revising the banking
regulations. Private banks, when established, are expected first to provide
credit services for trading activities, particularly exports, and
subsequently perform a wider range of banking services.
74.       The existing Government banks will continue. However the CSBS
financial status needs to be ascertained more precisely and consequently an
audit of accounts is underway (see paragraph 46). There are also plans to
arrange for further management assistance to the CSBS. The most important
issues in rural and industrial finance are the need to: improve the
institutions responsible for creuit; stimulate savings; provide more
opportunities for credit for the financing of production and trade in all
sectors of the economy; and achieve positive interest rates for lending.
Steps currently being taken to maintain positive real interest rates were
mentioned in paragraph 4S.
75.       Insurance.  In February 1989 the Government officially announced
that it had decided to relinquish its monopoly over insurance services in
Somalia. This is a major change which will lead to more competition and
efficiency in an area where confidence was seriously eroded. Many trading
activities were insured only because of Government requirements, but
without any expectation of recouping losses should they occur. Under the
new arrangements, private insurance companies will be permitted to
establish and operate in Somalia. It is, therefore, also no longer
compulsory to use the Somali Insurance Agency for all goods traded to and
from Somalia.



- 25 .
Land Tenure
76.       The Government is committed to improving land tenure policies
and laws as well as land administration. The present land tenure system 2.
Somalia is based on a law enacted in 1975. It provides that all land is
owned by the State, but that individuals and families can register one
piece of land. The law provided for procedures whereby land occupants
could register leaseholds for 50 year duration on agricultural land. There
are a number of shortcomings in the law and its administration. For example
the limit of one parcel of land reduces flexibility in land use and
constrains the farmer's risk aversion strategies. In some cases small
parcels of land currently farmed jointly under traditional arrangements
may, if the law is strictly applied, not be deeded to one individual. The
legal opportunities for joint registration of land by husbands and wives is
not specified in the law; current deeds show that husbands are invariably
the holders of legal rights to land. Also, while applicants for
registration are required to show whether land they want to register is
already occupied by others, this is not always done adequately and the law
is unclear as to the legal entitlement of existing users of land. Hence
land being used legitimately under traditional agreements may be taken over
by outsiders with limited legal recourse by the traditional occupants.
These types of inadequacies in the law and its administration need to be
corrected for orderly development of agricultural areas. Further land
tenure administration is weak and cumbersome. So far, less than 5 percent
of land in Somalia has been registered. Most of these registrations have
been in the Shebelli and Juba valleys where land and irrigation development
are most intense.
77.       The Government considers that accurate, equitable and rapid
registration of land is an important pre-condition to further agricultural
development in the two important river valleys in Somalia. It will also be
important for rangeland areas where conflicts over land rights,
particularly over areas being enclosed for grazing and cultivation, are
becoming more numerous. The Government has decided to move rapidly to
review the existing land tenure laws and land administration, and prepare
an action plan for irrigated land. The preparation of an action plan to
improve land tenure policy and administration for irrigated land,
satisfactory to IDA, will be a condition of the second tranche of the
credit. Criteria for an acceptable action plan include that its (i)
adequately safeguards traditional rights; (ii) provides security of tenure;
(iii) enhances transferability and liberalized access to land; (iv)
protects the rights of spouses; (v) is enforceable with appropriate
remedies; and (vi) prescribes an administrative framework. The criteria for
an acceptable administrative arrangement are that it: (i) is simple, rapid
and easy to understand; (ii) provides land holders with clear title; (iii)
is cost effective and can be funded from the ordinary budget; (iv) provides
records and information which is easily accessible to land holders and
others with bona fide interest.



- 26 -
Public Sector Management Issues
78.       The Government's program addresses a number of key issues to
improve the effectiveness of policy formulation and planning, to
rationalize public expenditures and investments, to improve cost recovery
in the public sector, and to restructure public enterprises. The need to
improve public expenditure planning has already been pointed out, and the
actions to be taken by the Government have been outlined (para. 43).
79.       Policy Analysis and Planning.  The Government has lacked a
strong policy analysis capacity and adequate statistical data on
agriculture, as well as on the economy as a whole. UWDP has for a number
of years supported a program of technical assistance to improve the
Government's policy analysis capacity in the Ministry of National Planning.
Discussions are being held in respect of a follow up project. GTZ and PAO
have financed assistance to strengthen policy analysis in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources. There have been considerable efforts
recently to improve the statistical base. In 1987, USAID financed a
population census which is now being analyzed. Also, a series of support
programs havf been directed at the Central Department of Statistics in the
Ministry of National Planning and to improve the statistical base for the
whole economy. ASAP I provided much of the financial support for this work
with matching contributions from the Government of Sweden through the
Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic Co-operation
(BITS). ASAP II will continue this support jointly with the Government of
Sweden.
80.       Cost Recovery.  The Government is committed to improving cost
recovery in the public sector through various service charges. Currently,
under the IDA-assisted North-West Agriculture Project (Cr. 1538-SO), a cost
recovery system is being implemented. Farmers benefiting from the soil and
water conservation measures are required to repay a portion of the costs of
earth works and project implementation. A similar cost recovery
arrangement is in place in IDA's Semi-mechanized Rainfed Project (Cr. 1774-
SO). Under ASAP I the Government agreed to achieve full cost recovery for
tractor rental services as a condition of the second tranche. The
operating costs and charges levied by ONAT (the Government tractor and
machinery hire agency) were reviewed and a report was produced. On the
basis of that report rental charges were increased; they have been
regularly increased since, in line with assessed costs and the commitments
made under ASAP I. OMAT has also restructured its operations by closing
loss making branches and is now operating at a profit. It should be noted
that the Government is also pursuing cost recovery policies in setting
electricity and water charges.



- 27 -
PART IV - THE IMPACT OF TEE PROGRAM
A. Economic Impact
81.       An important objective of the Government's adjustment program is
to achieve and maintain economic stabilization. The Government is fully
aware that the rate of inflation must be brought down to enable markets and
prices to play their allocative role effectively. The stabilization
components of the program focus on correcting the fiscal and external
balances through a combination of demand and supply measures. Reduction of
the fiscal deficit, stricter monetary policies, and exchange rate
adjustments are expected to bring aggregate demand in line with available
resources. Supply side measures such as the reorientation of domestic
credit toward the private sector, an increase in the volume of imports, and
improved export incentives are expected to stimulate output. With the
implementation of these policies, Somalia should achieve the stabilization
objective with moderate annual price increases.
82.       Under the program, the Government aims to achieve an annual
output growth rate of almost 5 percent. After taking into account the
projected increase in real indirect taxes at market prices, GDP is expected
to grow at about 5.5 percent per annum. This would allow an annua* per
capita income increase of about 2.5 percent. Given the resource
availability, and the performance record of the economy, this annual rate
of GDP growth is achievable under the new policy environment. Crop
production can be expected to increase at 5 percent annually and livestock
by between 2 and 3 percent (paragraphs 57 and 58) while construction and
transportation are projected to grow each by 6 percent, manufacturing 10
percent, and fishing 15 percent per annum. These sectors will benefit from
the liberal.zation measures, as well as the higher import availability
under the program. Reflecting both the expansion in production and
imports, per capita domestic consumption will increase by about 6 percent
in 1989, partially offsetting the 11 percent fall registered in 1988. In
the medium term, per capita consumption will increase at an annual rate of
a little over 1 percent.
83.       The process of stabilization and adjustment is likely to require
several years. During this period, the Government needs to hold to a
steady course of economic policies, follow through on announced intentions,
and avoid abrupt changes in policies, to increase investors' confidence
over time and to improve the climate for private sector participation.
Also, the success of the program will depend, to a large extent, on the
availability of sufficient external resources. Within a hospitable policy
environment for private initiative and given a steady flow of external
support for projects and balance of payments, Somalia has sufficient
physical resources to be able to make a turnaround, and the economy can be
put on a viable growth path in the long term.
84.       The success of the current program is heavily dependent on the
availability of external support and the export performance of the economy.
Any significant shortfall in anticipated foreign exchange receipts would



- 28 -
have a major impact on all program objectives. To the extent that foreign
exchange receipts are lower, the growth rate for 1989 would not be
realized, and the economy would continue to be under constraint because of
a severe shortage of imports. Moreover, on account of the very high share
of government revenue generated by external assistance, the budgetary
deficit would proportionally widen with damaging consequences for
stabilization and other program objectives.
85.       Failure in the implementation of the adjustment program would
manifest itself first and foremost on exports. A shortfall in export
receipts would reduce the amount of foreign exchange available to both the
private importers and the Central Bank for Government needs. To the extent
of the shortfall in imports, growth targets would be imperiled, and
unplanned accumulation of arrears by the Government could threaten
commodity import programs and general import financing. The impact of a
shortfall in external resource availability would be dramatic. For example
a 30 percent shortfall in grants for commodity import programs would result
in reducing the projected growth in GDP, no growth in per capita income,
and negative growth in per capita consumption. The impact on the budget
would be more severe on account of much lower counterpart funds. To
maintain the monetary and credit targets of the program, expenditures would
have to be cut by 10 percent in real terms, from their already constrained
levels.
B. Social Impact
86.       The Government's adjustment program aims at improving the well-
being of all income groups and providing incentives for more gainful
employment. However, some of these measures may have negative short term
effects on consumers, primarily by raising prices of food, water,
transportation and other services. Such effects will fall more heavily on
those who are at present benefitting from subsidized prices for food and
services, and whose incomes do not rise immediately.   These effects are
lik3ly to be experienced most acutely in the urban areas.
87.       Some elements of the adjustment program may partially counteract
these negative effects. Elimination of the Government monopoly in
shipping, insurance and exports will benefit producers and infuse new
income into the urban and rural economies. Re-allocation of government
expenditure in favor of economic and social services shoulV result in more
and better services for the poorest groups, although tze full benefits of
this will be realized only gradually. The ASAP II credit will include a
component to support the est.ablishment of an institutional framework to
plan, and a fund to finance a number of specific actions to address the
cost of adiustment being borne by vulnerable groups.
88.       A comprehensive study of disadvantaged groups in Mogadishu was
carried out in 1986 by the Municipality of Mogadishu. The study which
included household surveys in six different areas was recently published by
UNICEF. Since the completion of the study, the Ministry of Health and
UNICEF have jointly carried out nutrition surveys in four areas of the



- 29 -
city. supplementing the food expenditure data that were originally
reported. Overall it was estimated that between 7 percent and 12 percent
of households were in poverty, defined in terms of insufficient expenditure
to purchase a minimum food basket. The nutritional surveys have indicated
malnutrition rates of 3.4 percent of children under five in middle income
areas but up to 6 percent in the poorest communities. The results of these
surveys provide valuable baseline data on a number of dimensions against
which changes in the quality of life of households in the city can be
measured in the coming years.
C. Measures to Alleviate the Impact of Adjustment on Vulnerable Groups
89.       In the Policy Framework Paper (1989-91) the Government has
stated the need to pursue growth with equity, that is, to provide the poor
with access to services which meet their basic needs, and to ensure their
ability to effectively participate in the growth process by increasing
their access to employment and income generating opportunities. The
Government has established a Social Action Committee, responsible to the
Ministry of Finance and Revenue, to examine the position of vulnerable
groups, evaluate possible measures to address the problems of vulnerable
groups, and monitor implementation of approved measures. The establishment
of this Committee was an important step in a process which will enable the
Government to design policies and programs to address the social dimensions
of adjustment.
90.       The actions planned to address the impact of the adjustment
program on the vulnerable groups will have two major parts. The first part
will concentrate on institution building for social action planning to: (i)
strengthen the capacity of existing institutions to analyze social action
policy programs and to identify and design social action projects which are
to address the problems caused by adjustment policies; (ii) evaluate the
benefits and costs of social action programs and projects; and (iii)
monitor the living standards of households in Somalia. The second part of
the program is to establish the institutional framework for the financing
of the projects and programs. These actions under ASAP II are seen as a
start to a longer term program.
Institution Building for Social Action Planning
91.       Social Policy Support.  Analysis of social action policy will be
carried out by a unit (Social Action Unit) in the Ministry of National
Planning (MNP) which will be assisted by long and short term consultancies.
The role of this unit will be to formulate policies for dealing with the
problems of the poor and vulnerable groups. The unit will also identify
and formulate specific actions.  In summary the work of the unit will be to
li) identify and explore ways in which equity issues can be protected in
the context of macroeconomic policy reform; (ii) formulate actions which
can address the problems of vulnerable groups in particular sectors such as
agriculture and the civil service; and (iii) communicate to the vulnerable
groups the social services and support which they are entitled to. The
social action unit will be responsible to the Social Action Committee. The



- 30 -
appointment of the head of the Social Action Unit, satisfactory to IDA,
will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
92.       Project Evaluation.  This activity will be supported by
technical assistance for two years and a series of seminars and training to
evaluate the proposed interventions. A number of potential actions have
already been identified (see Annex VI). They are amongst the possible sub-
projects which will be implemented under the social action program in ASAP
IT. The criteria for choosing the specific actions will be, inter alia,
that (i) they are directed at the poor; (ii) are simple to implement (iii)
can be completed over a short time span; (iv) are not inconsistent with
longer term programs; and tv) do not divert staff from their current
activities. Arranging for the evaluation of the proposed projects will be
the responsibility of the social action unit,
93.       Monitoring.  The monitoring of living conditions of the poor in
Somalia would be done by first a further analysis of the existing household
budget survey, second, conducting base line studies to obtain further
information on nutrition and housing, and finally implementing as a
separate operation a permanent household survey with funding provided by a
bilateral donor. The first of these activities will be the responsibility
of the Central Department of Statistics in the MNP. This latter activity
is at present unfunded, but it is anticipated that a bilateral donor will
be prepared to consider financing the longer term permanent household
survey and that the survey would become part of the social action program.
Framework for Funding
94.       The ASAP II credit will establish a social action fund, to be
managed on a day to day basis by the social action unit, to finance the
approved social action projects. Establishment of the social action fund
will be a condition of effectiveness of the credit. The approval process
for use of the fund will be through the Social Action Committee. The
Government and IDA anticipate other donors would be interested in
contributing to this fund. The committee will be provided with permanent
support by the social action unit and additional technical support financed
from the ASAP II credit arranged and approved by the Committee as
necessary. All approvals for the use of money from the social action fund
by the Committee will be subject to the approval of IDA on a no objection
basis. Approved withdrawals from the social action fund will only be made
under arrangements to be agreed with IDA. The aim will be to provide a
close relationship between funding and action. Some of these activities
identified in Annex VI are well advanced in terms of their preparation. In
some cases it may be appropriate for ASAP II to cofinance ongoing social
action programs. It is likely that most projects will be implemented on
behalf of the Social Action Committee by a Government agency, private
contractor, or non government agency.



- 31 -
PART V - BANRK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
A. The Bank's Portfolio
95.       Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$ 398 million,
consisting of 36 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Fourteen projects
are under implementation. Over 30 percent of total IDA lending has been
for agriculture, 25 percent for transport and the rest about equally
divided among education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. The list of current projects in the portfolio is
given in Annex II. The ASAP I credit, the predecessor to this operation,
was approved in June 1986.
96.       Progress in implementing development projects in Somalia has
varied. Two agricultural projects have suffered severely from the civil
unrest in the north west. Some projects have suffered from over-ambitious
design, and co-financing arrangements have not always been easy to
implement. Projects for roads, ports, and water were more successful
initially than those in the agricultural sector, but implementation of
agriculture projects has improved. Somalia's disbursement performance on
projects assisted by the Bank group has been satisfactory. The FY88
disbursement rate was 29 percent as compared to 26 percent for the Africa
Region and 25 percent Bank/IDA wide.
B. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program I Credit
97.       The first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP I) of $70
million was approved by the Board in June, 1986. The program was financed
through an IDA credit, a Special Facility for Africa Credit and the Special
Joint Facility (the United Kingdom Government). The Government of Sweden
contributed to the technical assistance program. The main objective of
ASAP I was to support continued policy reform in the economy with a
particular focus on the agricultural sector, to strengthen a number of
institutions in the agriculture and planning ministries, and to finance the
import of inputs and other goods for the economy. Annex IV provides a
summary of the Government's compliance with the covenants in ASAP I. The
original closing date was December 31, 1988. This has been extended by one
year because disbursements were stopp*d when the Government interrupted the
program implementation (see paragraph 14). Once the Government reversed
its position on economic policies and restored funds drawn incorrectly from
the special account, disbursements from the ASAP I credit resumed. The
main elements of implementation of ASAP I are given in more detail below.
Agricultural Policy Reform
98.       Despite interruptions in macroeconomic policy which were
described in Part II of this report, the credit achieved most of its
objectives in respect of agricultural policy. Reform of hides and skins
trade was not achieved as rapidly as had been hoped, but the Government's
recent announcements have now provided for full decontrol of markets. The



- 32 -
tractor hiring agency (ONAT) pursued the policy of achieving full cost
recovery and, as a result of a contraction of its service coverage and
regular increases in charges, is now covering all its costs. Real interest
rates on credit to borrowers in agriculture rose during the first part of
implementation (up to September 1987) because the inflation rate declined.
Grain pricing and marketing policies were effective, while food aid
management did not disrupt domestic food markets.
Institutional Reform
99.       Technical assistance provided under ASAP I has contributed to
improvements in a number of institutions. The Central Department of
Statistics (CDS) in the Ministry of National Planning has grown in stature
and become a reliable source of national statistics. The study of ONAT
costs was successfully completed and led to improvements in staff
competence and restructuring of ONAT operations. The Agriculture
Development Corporation (ADC) and the National Commercial Agency (ENC),
which are both involved with grain and food trading, have been examined
with the help of technical assistance financed from ASAP I with the
objective of achieving institutional improvements. The successful
technical assistance activities financed under ASAP I have led to renewed
understanding and acceptance by the Government of the importance of
institutional reform.
Foreign Exchange Auction and Allocation Mechanisms
100.      The foreign exchange auction introduced under ASAP I ran for 12
months and was successful in a number of ways. First, it was efficiently
and fairly administered and hence enhanced the reputation of the Central
Bank. Second, it showed that a market for the allocation of foreign
exchange provided by donors can work in Somalia. Third, it established a
reliable estimate of the premium for "free' foreign exchange which was not
encumbered by major limits on its use. There were, however, some major
problems. First, the auction rate did fluctuate more than expected due to
periodic uncertainties about the likely future supply of foreign exchange
for the auction. Second, the loss of control over credit from the banking
system (see paragraph 15) resulted in a rapid devaluation of the Somali
shilling. As discussed in Part II, the Government abandoned the auction in
September 1987, a decision which led to a halt in the flow of funds to
importers from donors until November 1988. In July 1988, however,
agreement was reached with the Fund and the Bank on substantial reforms in
economic policy, which inter alia resulted in a new foreign exchange
allocation mechanism (described in paragraph 33) which simulates the
auction by allocating foreign currency to bidders in proportion to total
demand.
C. IDA Strategy
101.      The objective of IDA's strategy in Somalia is to achieve faster
sustainable growth with equity. The major constraints to achieving this
objective have been inappropriate policies, weak institutions, undeveloped



- 33 -
or dilapidated infrastructure, and unskilled human resources. A strategy
to relieve these constraints would strengthen the Government's ability to
define and maintain stable economic policies, coordinate and make better
use of donor assistance, stimulat- efficient production-oriented
investments, improve the utilization of past investments, and establish the
key conditions for sustained economic growth. Accordingly, IDA assistance
includes a program of policy dialogue and project-based support to address
these constraints. ASAP $$ will be a major instrument in this strategy,
reinforcing the policy reforms achieved so far, supporting new reforms,
contributing to the technical analysis and institutional development needed
for future economic adjustments, and providing a framework for dealing with
the social costs of adjustment. The main thrusts of IDA strategy are
discussed in more detail below.
Improving the Policy Environment
102.      IDA will continue to work with the Government to develop
macroeconomic and sectoral policies more conducive to growth, and support
it in sustaining recent reforms during a time of serious economic crisis.
ASAP II would contribute by relieving short term input constraints on
growth while the economy adjusts to recent and ongoing policy reforms, and
by providing technical assistance for formulation of improved fiscal, trade
and exchange rate policies. A Public Expenditure Review is now underway,
and a proposed Technical Assistance Project will further contribute toward
improving the policy environment.
Strengthening Government Institutions
103.      While it is important to introduce policy reforms as soon as
possible, in the longer run it is far more important to strengthen the
government institutions responsible for formulating policies, implementing
public investments, and providing basic economic and social services. Such
strengthening contributes not only to a more stable policy environaent,
since local authorship of policies fostere local support, but also to
higher returns on public investments, better coordination of foreign
assistance, more efficient public services and ultimately more rapid
economic growth. The IDA strategy provides support for strengthening of
planning and budgeting functions, civil service reform, parastatal
restructuring, agricultural marketing reform and land reform. ASAP II will
contribute to this strategy through support for agricultural sector
institution strengthening, mainly through technical assistance and training
for the Ministries of Finance and Revenue, National Planning, and
Agriculture and Natural Resources. Institution strengthening is also the
major goal of a proposed Technical Assistance Project and an important
element of virtually every IDA-supported inv4stment project. Proposals are
also being discussed with Government to achieve reform of the industrial
public sector e; prises.
Developing Infrastructure
104.      The third major element of IDA's strategy involves assisting in
the provision and rehabilitation of critical public infrastructure. IDA has



- 34 -
in the past supported infrastructure lending including transportation,
energy and water supply. Planned lending will continue the transportation
and wdter supply thrusts, but place more emphasis on power (thermal and
hydroelectric) and irrigation. The largest potential investment is the
construction of the Jaardhere dam, which would provide a major increase in
power as well as water control, and for which feasibility studies are well
advanced. These investments are critical to improving and sustaining the
supply response to policy reforms.
The Resource Base: Environment and Human Resources
105.      Environment.  The Government recognizes the importance of
improved management of the natural environment. Somalia faces long-term
problems of over-grazing and desertification of rangelands, salinization of
irrigated farmlands, deforestation of small remaining woodlands, and
extinction of some species of wildlife under pressures from farmers and
hunters. To address these problems, the Government is implementing a Bank-
financed rangeland management project, which includes a wildlife protection
component, an irrigation management program along the Shebelli River, and a
program to extend soil protection measures to rainfed areas. The
Government is also reviewing, with the assistance of various donors, the
environmental impact of the planned Baardhere Dam. ASAP II will not have
any detrimental impact on the environment.
106.      Human Resources.  The final major strategy element overlaps with
institution strengthening because much of the latter requires training and
improvement of skills among civil servants. The strategy goes beyond this,
however, to address weaknesses in basic primary education (addressing a
long term development requirement) and skills of producers (in agriculture.
livestock, fisheries, industry and financial services, for a short to
medium term supply response). ASAP I1 and the proposed Technical
Assistance Project will support the institutional aspect of human resource
development as noted above. The proposed Primary Education Project will be
IDA's main instrument for improving basic public education, and a number of
projects address the skill requirements of producers. These activities are
fully justified for IDA support because of their contribution to the basic
goal of growth with equity.
D. Relationship to Other Aid Flows
107.      To secure effective donor coordination, in addition to the
periodic Consultative Group meetings, the Bank and UNDP jointly sponsor
regular donor meetings in Mogadishu, to coordinate activities in various
sectors. The ASAP program has also provided a focal point for donor
coordination. Other donors (e.g. Italy, USAID, ODA) have already been
involved in financing various aspects of ASAP I and the African Development
Fund will contribute to the financing of ASAP II. The Italian Government
will also provide parallel financing. Donor consensus will be strengthened
in future through the Joint Coordinating Comnittee, established at the last
CG meeting in April 1987, to Improve donor coordination and thereby direct



- 35 -
resources to the highest priority uses. Following the negotiation of ASAP
1I with the Government and the discussion by the Executive Directors of the
PFP, Somalia became eligible for inclusion in the SPA initiative which is
expected to provide additional external resources for meeting nonproject
imports. Further, as noted in paragraph 49, a Support Group is being
formed to assist Somalia with its cash requirements.
108.      IDA disbursements represented about 17 percent of total aid
flows to Somalia in 1988, and are projected at 20 percent in 1989. IDA
obligations represent about 14 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and
disbursed debt up to December 31, 1988. Debt service payments to IDA
represent a very small proportion of Somalia's total debt service
obligations. In 1989, payments to IDA were estimated at only about 3
percent of scheduled debt service payments for that year. This trend is
expected to continue in the future.
PART VI - THE ASAP II CREDIT
A. Background
109.      The proposed ASAP II credit supports the Government's recent
substantial policy changes. These policies have already been described
above in Parts II and III. It is worth emphasizing, however, that there
has been a considerable change in the Government's approach towards
development policy. The quality of dialogue has improved and there is a
new level of underswanding and greater energy and enthusiasm to discuss and
address the issues.
110.      This project was first appraised in September 1987.  However,
its processing could not be continued when the Government abandoned the
foreign exchange auction system and revalued the So Sh. The shelving of
the adjustment program resulted in an interruption of disbursements on
bilateral and multilateral assistance, including the ASAP I credit.
Despite the worsening of the economic situation, the Government stuck to
its position and, as noted already, price controls were reintroduced in
February 1988. Throughout this period of uncertainty, which lasted about
nine months, Bank and Fund staff maintained an active dialogue with the
Government. A number of Bank and Fund missions visited Mogadishu, between
September 1987 and June 1988, and exchanged views with the authorities on
issues regarding the need for change in economic policies. Coupled with a
realization that problems were originating from inappropriate policies,
this interaction on economic policies has influenced the Government's
decision to resume the adjustment program. As pointed out earlier, in July
1988, the Government put together, with assistance from the Bank and the
Fund, a policy package including strong actions on the exchange rate,
foreign exchange allocation system, interest rate structure, new
expenditure and revenue targets, and commitments to make structural changes
in industry and agriculture. Also, price controls were declared to be
inoperative.



- 36 -
111.      The resumption of program implementation triggered disbursements
from the ongoing bilateral and multilateral assistance programs, including
the remaining funds from the ASAP I credit. In September 1988, the Bank
convened a one-day informal meeting in London, to update Somalia's donors
on developments. Meanwhile, a joint Bank-Fund mission in November-December
1988 established that program implementation was on track. During the same
visit, Bank staff carried out a post-appraisal of the proposed ASAP II
credit. In January 1989, the Government announced new and more sweeping
reforms aimed at the removal of remaining government monopolies in trade
and services. In early March 1989, a second PFP covering the period 1989-
91 was discussed and agreed with Bank and Fund staff. 21 Based on these
developments it was decided to proceed with the proposed ASAP II Credit.
Negotiations were held in Washington DC on April 13 and 14, 1989. The
Somali delegation was led by His Excellency, Mohamed Hassan Barre, Vice
Minister of Finance and Revenue.
B. Objectives
112.      The broad objective of this credit is to support the
Government's adjustment program and policies with a particular focus on
agriculture. Moving forward with this credit is in recognition of the many
actions already taken by the Government recently to decontrol trade and
services in important areas of the economy. Actions such as the decontrol
of the important trade in hides and skins, frankincense and myrrh, and
veterinary drugs are now part of Government policy and will be followed up
with the necessary actions. Decontrol of the banking system, insurance and
maritime transport, while also requiring enabling regulations, is now also
established Government policy and will remove many bottlenecks in the
economy.
113.      The recently launched economic policy reforms and the
Government's stated strong commitment to these reforms are the basis for
the ASAP II Credit. It is aimed to help achieve and maintain economic
stabilization; increase private sector participation in supplying and
distribtuting inputs and services; strengthen key agricultural institutions;
provide foreign exchange fo. the import of much needed agricultural ani
industrial inputs as well as other goods and services; improve monitoring
of imports through trade verification; and ameliorate the impact of
adjustment programs on vulnerable groups. The Government's Letter of
Development Policy and a matrix showing the relationship between policy
issues and strategies in the economy and in agriculture, and the actions
under this program, are presented in Annex VIII.
C. Credit Description
114.      IDA and the African Development Fund would support the
adjustment program with an IDA credit of SDR 54.2 million ($70 million
2/   The PFP was endorsed by the Coimittee of the Whole on April 25, 1989.



- 37 -
equivalent) and a c'edit from the Arican Development Fund equivalent to $25
million. The Govea-menot of Sweden, through the Swedish Agency for
International Technical and Econmic Cooperation (BITS) will provide SEK
3.1 million (about $0.5 million) for the financing of technical assistance
to support the statistical work in the MNP on a grant basis.
115.      The allocation of funds to be provided by the credits are
summarized in Table 2:
Table 2s Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
Component                         IDA          AfDF           TOTAL
-------      Trmillion)-
Part A - Importation of Goods
and Materials by Pub-
lic and Private Sector
Enterprises
(a)  Goods and Materials        44.5        17.0           61.5
(b) Diesel Fuel and
Lubricant Imports          16.5          5.0          21.5
by SOMPET
Part B - Imports of Inputs
by Government             1.0          3.0           4.0
Ministries 1/
Part C - Social Action Program
for Vulnerable Groups     2.7                        2.7
Part D - Technical Assistance
(a) Ministry of Finance and
Revenue                       4.1                         4.1
- Procurement Unit
- Import Verification
- Tariff Review
- Adjustment Advice
(b)  Ministry of National Planning 0.6           -            0.6 21
- Statistics
(c)  Ministry of Agriculture       0.6                        0.6
- Land Tenure Action Plan
- Machinery Rehabilitation
Sub Total              5.3                         .3
TOTAL              70.0         25.0          95.0
1/ Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Range, and F'sheries
2/ Excludes SEK 3.1 million (about $ 0.5 million) of parallel financing
from the Government of Sweden.



- 38 -
Part A
(a) will provide financing for the import of goods through a foreign
exchange allocation system for private importers and public sector
enterprises (except SOMPET) as described in paragraph 33. The
eligibility of imports will be subject to a limited negative list
because, the credit is aimed at supporting a broad range of
macroeconomic adjustments on policy reforms. The amount of
foreign exchange allocated to this component over two years will
increase the availability of foreign exchange for private sector
and public sector enterprise imports by about 25 percent above its
current level.
(b) will provide foreign exchange for the import of fuel and
lubricants by SOMPET. the Government owned petroleum company.
Standard ICB procedures will be used. The exchange rate used for
the calculation of the local currency deposits by SOMPET will be
the official exchange rate at the time letters of credit opened.
Part B  will provide finance for the import of goods by the Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock, Forestry and Range, and Fisheries to
assist them to carry out their support for the agricultural
sector. The list of goods which would be eligible for these
purchases is provided in Annex IX. The exchange rate used will be
the official exchange rate at the time letters of credit are
opened.
Part C   will finance a social action program for vulnerable groups.
Implementation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Finance and Revenue. It is possible that other donors will
contribute additional funds for this component.
Part D  will finance technical assistance as followss
(a) Ministry of Finance and Revenue. Technical assistance will be
provided to the Ministry of Finance and Revenue for staffing of
the Procurement Unit. This Unit, already established under ASAP
I, will ensure that procurements under this program are carried
out efficiently and consistent with the credit agreement. The
Ministry will also use this allocation for training and
consultancies (e.g. auditing and staff development). An "import
verification, system will be financed by the credit to be
implemented by a qualified inspection company. The purpose of
import verification is to determine and verify the quantity,
quality and prices of goods to be imported into Somalia at the
port of origin. This technical assistance will also provide a
training program so that eventually the Department of Customs can
independently carry out adequate inspection procedures and tariff
assessments in Somalia. Part of the funds allocated to this
component will be used to undertake a review of tariff rates and
their incidence. Amendments to tariffs for Somalia's main imports
will be introduced at the same time as import verification.



- 39 .
Finally, funds from this component would be available for
technical assistance to the Ministry to enable it to provide
advice on transition problems for various enterprises during the
adjustment process.
(b)   Ministry of National Planning.  The Central Statistics Department
in the Ministry of National Planning will receive continued
support, to develop and improve its statistical collection,
analysis and report preparation. The Swedish Government will
finance about 50 percent of the costs through a grant. The work
program will consist of analysis of the household budget survey
for Mogadishu and major cities, implementing a household budget
survey for nomadic populations, improvement of industrial
statistics, developing a CPI for areas outside Mogadishu,
undertaking (with lAO support) an agricultural and livestock
census, improving national accounts, and continuing staff
training.
(c)   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources.  The Ministry will
be assisted to implement an action plan to improve land policy and
land tenure administration for irrigated land. A number of
studies of land tenure issues, financed by USAID, have been
completed and they all point to the need to develop an action plan
to up$ate the 1975 Land Law and formulate a streamlined land
administration system. Further work on policy and administrative
issues is being financed by a USAID supported project. Most of
the future irrigation development in the Shebelli and Juba Valley
depends, inter alia, on improved land laws and institutional
arrangements for land tenure. Agro-pastoral development in
rangeland areas is also creating strains in existing land laws and
traditional land rights, but the necessary research on which to
base the changes in policy and administration have not yet been
done. Those studies are to be financed under a proposed Technical
Assistance Credit. Another component will be technical assistance
to support 'hands on' practical training in the rehabilitation of
agricultural machinery used for the support and service
responsibilities of the Ministry.
D. Implementation and Monitoring
116.     Funds provided for private sector and public sector enterprises
(except SOMPET) would be allocated through the foreign exchange allocation
system already established under ASAP I since November 1988 (paragraph 33).
All imports will be eligible except those on a negative list which will
include luxury goods, military equipment, and food, except a number of
basic staples (see Annex IX). Government's diesel fuel purchases under the
program will be financed at the official exchange rate at the time of
opening letters of credit. The IMF has been consulted on the system for
foreign exchange allocations envisaged under this program and has endorsed
it. In addition, the IMF has also agreed to provide advice to the
Government and IDA on the allocation system as it proceeds. Another donor



- 40 -
(Italy) has reached agreement with Government to use the same foreign
exchange allocation system for the disbursement of funds to finance
commodity imports other donors are using similar systems. The Government,
IDA and the Italian Government have agreed that the use of such funds will
be coordinated with funds from the ASAP II credit.  IDA will administer the
Italian Grant Agreements. The local funds generated by the foreign
exchange sales of the ASAP -I credit will be placed in a separate GOS
account in the Central Bank. Establishment of such an account will be a
condition of effectiveness of the credit.
117.     Imports made and the services rendered by the Ministries will be
valued at the prevailing official exchange rate. Technical assistance will
be implemented under the responsibility of relevant ministries. However
all procurement related to technical assistance will be arranged through
the Procurement Unit, which was set up under ASAP I credit in the Ministry
of Finance and Revenue on behalf of the .Vplementing Ministries.
118.     Monitoring.  The Ministry of Finance and Revenue will be
responsible for monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of policy
actions taken under the adjustment program. MOF will submit semi-annual
progress reports to IDA; the first such report will be submitted no later
than mid-November 1989. The reports will monitor the measures taken to
decontrol economic activities (paras 63-75) aud their impact, and provide
an analysis of developments.   The purpose is to provide feedback on the
effectiveness of the policy actions in stimulating economic growth and
identify obstacles in a timely manner. The reports will include the
following areass
(a)   hides and skins - the impact of decontrol on official export
volumes; measures taken to remove remaining impediments such as
constraints on sales of hides and skins at Government slaughter
facilities and the freedom of all tanneries to buy and sell
unprocessed and processed hides and skins;
(b)   frankincense and myrrh - the impact of decontrol on official
export volumes;
(c)   veterinary drugs and equipment - establishment of necessary
regulations to ensure that qualified importers can be registered
in a non-discriminatory fashion, the maintenance of safety
standards; the impact of decontrol on the availability of
veterinary drugs and equipment, and the number of registered
private traders;
(d)   maritime transport - the response of private shipping companies to
decontrol; the impact on shipping prices, efficiency in port
operations;
(e)   banking - the introduction of appropriate banking regulations by
the Government to provide the necessary conditions for the
establishment of private banks.



- 41 -
(f)   insurance - the introduction of appropriate regulations to provide
the basis for the establishment of private insurance companies in
Somalia.
119.     Assurances were received at netotiations that the Government will
prepare for IDA semi-annual progress reports on the implementation of the
program in a format and on a time schedule acceptable to IDA (para 118).
The first report will be due not later than November 15, 1989.
E. Agreements Reached
120.     The Letter of Development Poli'y (Annex VIII) describes the
actions that have been taken by the Government, and the further actions
that will be taken during program implementation. These measures are also
summarized in the matrix of policy actions attached to the letter. Credit
proceeds for the importation of goods and materials in the Program (Part A)
will be disbursed in two tranches, $33.0 million (54 percent) for the first
tranche and $28 million (46 percent) for the second tranche. The reason
for a higher percentage in the first tranche is to ensure that the program
is financed during 1989 prior to the availability of funds from the African
Development Fund in 1990. The actions required for the first tranche have
already been met; the first tranche will be available when the program
becomes effective.
Second Tranche Release
121.     The release of the second tranche will be contingent upon
satisfactory progress in the implementation of the overall macroeconomic
and sectoral policies, as well as implementation by the Government of the
following actions:
(a)   agreement with IDA on the three-year public investment program
covering 1990-1992 (paragraph 43);
(b)   agreement with IDA on proposals for the public expenditure program
to be included in the FY1990 Government budget (paragraph 43);
(c)   based on a revised tariff structure for main imports agreed with
IDA, the establishment and implementation of an import
verification system satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 40).
(d)   agreement with IDA on an action plan for the institutional
development of ADC and ENC (paragraph 65); and
(e)   agreement with IDA on an action plan to improve land tenure policy
and administration for irrigated land (paragraph 77).
122.     Actions with respect to public expenditures, including the public
investment program, draw their importance from the fact that there is an
urgent need to improve resource allocation in the public sector.



- 42 -
Institutional improvements in ADC and ENC are important because of the role
of these agencies in food marketing and the management of food aid.
Changes in the land tenure policy and administration for irrigated areas is
deemed essential to fully exploit the output potential of the agricultural
sector. Revision of the tariff -ystem for Somalia's main imports is an
important prerequisite to the introduction of an import verification
system. The import verification system is in turn essential for the
success of the adjustment program. In addition to restoring discipline in
the verification and valuation of imports, achieving the budgetary targets
of the program depends to a large extent on large increases in import
revenue.
F. Procurement
123.     Procurement procedures have been designed to permit rapid use of
the funds while ensuring efficiency and accountability in the process.
Imports by the Government, the private sector and public sector enterprises
would follow international competitive bidding for amounts of US$400,000
equivalent and above. For Government contracts valued at below US$400,000
procurement would be done through limited international bidding procedures,
which have been reviewed and are acceptable, and would seek aminimum of
three price quotations. For private and public sector enterprises
procurement contracts valued at less than $400,000 quotations from at least
three eligible suppliers would be obtained. For procurement contracts
valued at less than $200,00C private sector and public sector enterprises
would follow established co-.mercial practice for the procurement of such
goods. The Procurement Uni , established under this credit, would do a
preliminary review of the competitiveness of prices for imports valued at
less than US$200,000. Direct contracting (sole source procurement) could
be used for proprietary equipment or where compatibility with existing
equipment call for standardized equipment and spare parts. In such cases
documentary evidence would need to be supplied by the importer. As
mentioned earlier in this document (para 40) the Government will be
entering into a contract with a qualified company to implement an import
verification system which will review and verify the quality, price, and
quantity of imports. Consultants to be employed under Parts C and D will be
selected in accordance with IDA guidelines of August 1981.
G. Disbursements, Accounts and Audit
124.     Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made for 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for eligible imports (see Annex IX) under Part A of
the project, 100 percent of the cost of consultants' services and training
under the technical assistance component, and 100 percent of the costs of
goods, works and consultant services under approved subprojects directed at
mitigating the social costs of adjustment. Disbursements against contracts
valued at less than $100,000 equivalent for the import component, and
contracts valued at less than $20,000 equivalent for other components would
be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOEs); all other
disbursements would be made against full documentation. Supporting



- 43 -
documents for amounts disbursed on the basis of SOQs would be retained in
the Procurement Unit, and would be made available for review by auditors
and visiting IDA missions.
125.     To facilitate disbursements of the IDA credit the Government will
open three Special Accounts. Two with a commercial bank and one with the
Central Bank of Somalia. These accounts will be operated on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. The first Account will be used for the
import component, and will have an authorized allocation of US$20,000,000
(about six months requirements) and will be managed by the Procurement Unit
(PU) in the MOP. A second Account in the Central Bank will be for Part C
of US$200,000 (about four months requirements), managed ly the Social
Action Committee. The third account, managed by the PU will be used for
Part D of the project, and will have an authorized allocation of US$500,000
(about four months requirements). In all cases, the accounts will be
replenished on a regular basis on approval of withdrawal applications
accompanied by appropriate supporting documents including reconciled bank
statements. The African Development Fund will also advance funds to a
separate Special Account in connection with its financing of Parts A and B
of the program.
126.     The program's accounts, including Statements of Expenditure and
Special Accounts, will be audited each fiscal year by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association. A certified copy of such audited accounts
will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal
year.
127.     Not later than six months after completion of the program, GOS
will prepare and furnish to IDA a completion report highlighting its costs
and benefits.
H. Risks
128.     Somalia's experience with the implementation of the previous
adjustment programs has been mixed. Programs have frequently been
interrupted in the past for different reasons and resumed again. However,
there are strong indications that the Government's comiitment to adjustment
is stronger than before, and it is relatively well positioned to succeed.
Unlike the earlier experience, the Party's Central Committee backs these
reforms strongly and the Parliament has already enacted the required legal
changes to pave the way for implementation. For example, principles are
introduced in new laws assigning an important role to the private sector
and the decontrol of markets in the development of the economy. Thus, the
overall development strategy and, more specifically, the reforms are
explicitly embraced by the political leadership. Also, there has been a
lively debate within the country in recent months regarding the need for
change in the direction of economic policy. Therefore, the positions
reached by the Government reflect a stronger consensus than previously
existed. Finally, the Government's commitment to the program is further
evidenced by the implementation record during the second half 1988, as well
as the strength of the measures taken up front, in January/February 1989.



- 44 -
There are, nevertheless, a number of risks associated with the program
implementation and its success.
129.     One of the risks concerns the weakness in the Government's
implementation capacity. The capacity to formulate and implement policy
has been further eroded by declining real wages in the public sector.
Under the program the Government is comuitted to carry out a public
expenditure review, with IDA assistance, with an emphasis on civil service
employment and remuneration. Based on this review, the Government will
streamline the civil service and increase real wages over the medium term,
particularly for skilled personnel and for managers. This will help retain
some of the key personnel and recruit others. In addition, the proposed
credit has a technical assistance component which airis at strengthening the
implementation capacity in key ministries. The Bank is planning on a more
comprehensive free-standing tecbnical assistance program to broaden efforts
in this area. UNDP is providing assistance in similar areas, as is the
Swedish Government. Also the IMF is supporting the strengthening efforts of
the Central Bank of Somalia through technical assistance.
130.     A second risk associated with the credit is the extreme dependence
of the program on external assistance. Moreover, as indicated in the
section on foreign financing requirements, some of this support has to be
in cash form. If actual disbursements from external sources fall
significantly short of the anticipated amounts, this could have a profound
impact on the program's success. In case the Government is unable to pay
its oblig.tions to the Fund because of lack of cash assistance, this would
disallow . Fund-supported program with consequences not only in terms of
the availability of direct Fund resources but also total external support.
Therefore, if the program is not adequately funded, shortfalls in projected
imports would constrain output and would result in supply shortages.
Moreover, lack of external assistance would cause a serious decline in
government revenues. Under such circumstances, it would not be possible to
maintain the fiscal balance underlying the macroeconomic program.
131.     However, the response of the donor community to recent initiatives
taken by the Government has been encouraging. In addition to t'ne cash
support already provided by the Italian and the U.S. Governments, a Support
Group by the donors is being formed to mobilize the required cash
assistance to enable a Fund-supported program. As noted in paragraph 107,
Somalia has also become eligible for the SPA initiative. There are also
plans to hold a Consultative Group meeting for Somalia in late 1989. These
initiatives, coupled with continued good performance on policy reforms,
should help assure the needed external support for Somalia.
132.     A third risk originates from the continuation of civil unrest
which was particularly problematic in the North West region in 1988. The
civil unrest resulted in the closure of Berbera port and a major decline in
livestock exports in 1988.   If problems continue, it would reduce the full
benefits of the policy reforms with a major impact on exports. If export
revenues do not recover, shortfalls in foreign exchange can have similar
effects on the adjustment process as the insufficient external assistance.



- 45 -
However, with the rehabilitation of Bossasso port, livestock shipments will
further shift to the South and East. Trade in hides and skins, where a
major improvement is expected in 1989, and frankincense and myrrh can thus
avoid the troubled areas in the Northwest.
PART VII - RELATIONS WITH THE IMF
133.     The IMr Executive Board approved a 20-month stand-by arrangement
on June 29, 1987 for SDR 33.15 million. On the same date, Somalia's
request for a three-year arrangement under the Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAP) and the first annual arrangement thereunder was approved,
upon which SDR 8.84 million was made available. Under the stand-by
arrangement, only the initial purchase of SDR 5.53 million was made. Due
to accumulation of arrears to the Fund, the subsequent purchases were not
made. The program became inoperative in September 1987 as a result of the
Government's decision to cancti the foreign exchange auction, and failure
to clear the Fund arrears. Subsequently, Somalia was declared ineligible
to use the general resources of the Fund on May 6, 1988.
134.     Following the Article IV consultation discussion in March 1988, a
Fund staff team visited Mogadishu in the second half of May 1988 at the
request of the authorities to discuss their adjustment measures, and the
modalities for the eventual repayment of overdue obligations to the Fund.
On the basis of broad understandings reached during this mission and a
subsequent mission in July 1988, the authorities adopted a policy package
covering the period July-December 1988, which included cuts in real
expenditures, new revenue measures, change in the interest rate structui,
and adjustment of the official exchange rate. The mission that visited
Somalia in November 1988 found that, with the exception of minor
deviations, the authorities had implemented the measures contained in the
policy package.
135.     Based on these positive developments on the policy front, and
encouraged by the January 1989 announcement of new reforms, a PFP was
prepared by the Government, and discussed with Bank and Fund staff in
February-March 1989. This second PFP is expected to lead to a Fund
monitored program for Somalia. However, the accumulation of arrears to the
Fund, and closing the cash financing gap for 1989, continue to present
problems. The cash financing requirement in 1989 is estimated at US$172
million, of which US$76 million is for an escrow account in respect of
arrears to the Fund outstanding at end-1988. This leaves a cash financing
gap of US$96 million for 1989. A Fund shadow program would be feasible if
this latter amount can be secured and the financial obligations to the Fund
accruing in 1989 could be met (para. 49). As already mentioned, a Support
Group is being formed which would address the issue of Somalia's arrears on
its nonreschedulable debt.
136.     The Bank and Fund staffs working on Somalia have maintained a very
close working relationship. They have exchanged data and information on
developments, and conducted joint reviews of policies. Bank staff has



- 46 -
participated in all recent Fund missions to Somalia and have contributed to
the dialogue carried out by the Fund staff on macroeconomic policies.
PART VIII - RECOHMENDATION
137.     I am satisfied that the proposed IDA Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed IDA Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, DC
May 2, 1989



- 47 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex I        Somalia Country Data
Table Is Economic Indicators
Table 2: Balance of Payments
Table 3: External Financing
Annex II       Status of Banc Group Operations in Somalia
Annex III      Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV       Matrix of Policy Issues, Strategies and Actions in ASAP I
Annex V        Trends in Production, Area Harvested and Yield for Sorghum
and Maize
Annex VI       Social Action Program - Examples of Possible Projects
Annex VII      Import Verification System - Draft Terms of Reference
Annex VIII     Letter of Development Policy and Matrix of Policy Issues,
Strategies and Actions
Annex IX       List of Eligible Items under Parts A and  B of the Program



- 48-                                   Annex I
Page 1 of 3
Table 1. Smilea: 1y Indicators, 19o
19n     15       19im    1987    1968    1m9       1        1931
Est    Prg    Pro        Proo
(Growth rates)
Reel P at far caost                 85.    9.23   4.13    11.3    -2.7X    2.71    4.81          4.18
Real MP at wket prices               3.38    9.51   -2.11    9A.   43.A         4.5X    5.51      5.8
Rlt GP mrket prlm  per cap.          0.4X    6..3    4.9       6.51   -6.3      1.X 2.5           2.51
Real dstho caoptlon. per coM  -18.51   -6A.3    -7.1X   12.GS  -12.23    5.41    1.2              1.OX
Real private ouAptIon. per cap.  -17.8X   -5.18   4.5    11.51   -8.39          5.9S    0.4S      0.OX
Mgpdih OPI (perlod avg.)           92.2    37.82   35.81   28.11   81.71   02.81   23.71.   15.71
VW["  CPI (end period)              82.0S   30.4P   30.71   42.11  107.1S   38.9S   19.6S    12.71
Debt service (US$, ml II los)      107.7   118.7   152.6   172.4   188.8   175.7   148.8    147.2
Debt servioe ratio                  93.71   84.11  130.4S  161.11  237.5S  168.1S  129.11   114.5S
Debt aervloe,w                      13.23   12.8A   16.8X   17.1S   18.8S   18.1S   12.3S    11.1l
Gross dua. Instm  tAtMP             35.5    29.51   33.GS   34.71   29.8    29.81   29.11    28.0S
Mubila Irlnstunt,UP               28.11   20.8%   25.51   24.51   20.71   17.51   16.4         15.38
Privat InwstomtmiP                 7.6P    8.17   7.5S   10.2        8.8S   12.3S   12.71    12.81
Private flued investmnt/011      8.11    5.81    8.51    5.5       2.18    8.1S      9.2      9.41
PMbil10/tOtal fuied lnvamstint      82.11   78.11   79.5    81.18   91.01   86.81   84.2         61.81
Dmotlo savil,s/P                    -7.18   -1.3      3.4S    0.3S    5.18    2.51    4.28        5.6X
FMbila dbstIc t evi lP            -5.01  -4.5    -2.11   -5.1X   -1.71    0.5         1.28      2.11
Private do etic aavirtg1UP        -2.0X    2.11    5.5S    5.4S    6.71    1.9S    3.01         3.4S
Natlonal savi,oWe,P                 17.8S   17.5S   2232X   28.9P   20.5X   19.11   21.51    22.3X
MOile vutioMI sNvir%UP            10.A8   13.31   12.81   20.18   11.51   14.4S   15.38    15.6S
Private national saviyP            6.1     4.1X     9.81    8. 8 9.           4.11    8.31      7.2
Sovuriumit remie/UP                  6.4     6.32    8.4      6.23    5.32    7.1X      8.SX    10.23
ReM. aid grtse/UP                    9.6$   13.9    17.11   21.23   15.51    2.3L    24.51    25.18
EioandltireUL P                     18.1S   2D.71   24.71   30.71   23.51   24.9X   2A.A         24.5X
01ai deflcit (Incl. grnta)GDP   4.5X    -8.5    -7.X    -9.5S    -7.1    -1.7X    -0.4S          0.42
OvralI deflclt (owl. grat)/UP  -11.71  -14.51  -18.3   -24.5S   -18.23  -17.OX -10.4S  -14.4S
Rmuordirary unditLn M               48.91   58.18   60.3    42.71   49.23   68.18   77.1         88.3X
Exort groth (Jods only)            38.01   50.0X    1.8    -0.7X  -7.V8    41.4X  11.5X   12.7X
EbwortWD                             7.8X    10.1    10.3S    9.3      5.8X    7.5X    7.5X      7.8
Inwt growt (goods only)            -9.8X    -8.11   -4.X   2.3  -32.23   25.91          4.18     3.6X
lqwortsP                           49.    40.21   38.9X    42.A3    29.0S   33.5   31.A8    30.0X
Inrrt  comht (13*)                -145.1  -111.0   -99.2   48.9   -90.7  -117.1   -92.2    -70.3
Orn rt noo./lP                     -17.81  -12.08  -10.81   -5.8    -9.01   -10.71   -7.6X    -5.3X
CA owl. off. groabs ( US$)        -319.1  -315.0  -294.9  -3M8.5  -285.5  -396.8  -324.7   -304.6
CA mui. off. gra1wbUP              -39.1X  44.18   -32.11X -48.    -28.51  -40.1   -28A    -23.01
REER (depreclatlon -)               59.18  -44.81  -34.1X  -15.5S   23.81    ...
Sbces: Smalil aIuhritles at UF trd World BEank stff estilates and projectloiw.
Note: Table reflefts maoreoonblio fruewca k   paw#nstd In the FRP



-49 -                                Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Table 8. SOALIA - Smi la - Exterl FInanclog RWuirmt
(1I I IOnS of US dollars)
1989    1963   1991
Trade Balance                           -283.9  -292.4  -294.5
Not mvios. eMi. Intet                    -13.3   -8.7    4.0
Interest Paynts                         -9.4  -6.7   -6.1
of bShd: IDA                           -3.1   -3.1   -3.0
lw                           -12.9   -7.2   -3.0
Private Rmlttans                          30.0   40.0   50.0
Cwrrmt accomt balac                 -33.S  -324.8  -4.6
(before offlcial trafers)
Mart izat ion                           -108.3  -85.1   -91 .0
of Uhich: IDA                          -1.39   -1.64   -1.84
IMF                           -4.3  -28.7   -9.5
Arrears                                 -134.8  -71.1  -59.0
of hihd: IW                            -78.0    0.0    0.0
Ong.3 In grass reserves (Incl. Comr. Buk)  -24.5  -20.0  -20.0
Total Financing ReqPirammt          -602.2  -501.0  -474.8
Dliurs.rnts: existing onltments          258.5   133.0   95.0
OffIcial Loom                           39.0   23.0   20.0
ProJeot                            30.0   23.0   20.0
of Vhicth: IDA                   20.0   15.0   13.0
Progra                              9.0    0.0    0.0
of Whleh: IDA                     8.0    0.0    0.0
Official Grtsn                         219.5   110.0   75.0
Project                            140.0   98.0   75.0
Prtrnam                            79.5   14.0    0.0
Dlatxrummnts: e2oxtad comitmants          38.0   182.0  219.4
Offlclal loaon                          38.0   59.0   60.0
ProJect                             0.0    7.0   10.0
*f Wilch: IDA                     0.0    5.0    7.0
Progr                              38.0   52.0   50.0
*f ebloh: IDA                    30.0   35.0   35.0
AfB                      8.0   17.0    0.0
Official Grants:                         0.0   123.0  159.4
ProJeot                             0.0   49.0   70.0
grVm                                0.0   74.0   89.4
TotAl Identifled FInancIna               29.5   315.0  814.4
RhIning Gap                            -305.7  -188.0  -160.3
of dcldh: Debt Relief                  133.2   78.0   86.3
Caih 6ap                               -172.5  -108.0  -74.0
Sare: IMF and World M* staff estlmates based an data from
the Souali authoritles.



- 50 -                       Annex I
Page 3 of 3
Table 2. Somaliat Balance of Payment, 1985-91
-----------------------_--------_--_--_---------------------__---------------__------------------.
1985     1986     1987     1988     1989      1990      1991
Eat     Prog     Pros      Prog
Trade balance                       -280.00  -262.30  -335.42  -232.76  -283.87  -292.36   -294.45
Exports                            93.00    94.70    94.00    58.40    82.60    92.20    103.90
Imports                           373.00   357.00   429.42   291.16   366.47   384.56    398.35
Services, not                       -55.00   -69.57   -65.03   -75.78   -82.69   -72.37    -60.18
Non-factor services, net             -6.00    -9.25   -13.05   -13.43   -13.26    -8.67      -4.04
Credits                            48.10    22.30    13.04    20.87    21.93    23.04       24.21
Debits                             54.10    31.55    26.09    34.30    35.19    31.71       28.25
Net factor payments                 -49.00   -60.32   -51.98   -62.35   -69.43   -63.70    -56.14
Intterest                         -49.00   -60.32   -51.98   -62.35   -69.43   -63.70    -56.14
Credit                            0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
Debit                            49.00    60.32    51.98    62.35    69.43    63.70       56.14
Private transfers                  20.00    37.00    35.00    23.00    30.00    40.00       50.00
Current account,  xel. off. grants -315.00  -294.87  -365.45  -285.54  -336.56  -324.73   -304.63
Official transfers                 204.00   195.70   306.60   194.80   219.50   232.56    234.35
CIPs Cash                          46.00    55.10    16.70      9.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
In kind                       34.90    47.70    45.30      7.10    72.50    77.56      79.35
Food                          10.10    22.00    32.40    16.70      7.00    10.00      10.00
PIP                                113.00    70.90   204.20   162.00   140.00   145.00    145.00
Other                                 ...      ...     8.00     0.00     0.00
Current account, inluding grants  -111.00   -99.17   -58.85   -90.74  -117.06   -92.17    -70.28
Capital account, net                 59.10    -4.76   -44.40    -8.00    14.20    22.00       -1.60
Official (net)                     73.00    64.20    19.50   -13.80    14.20    22.00       -1.60
Disbursements                     122.00   124.30    82.22    45.40    77.00    82.00      80.00
CIP cash                          6.00    16.00    22.70      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
CIP in kina                      37.00    24.30      6.60    17.40    47.00    52.00      50.00
CIP food                         20.00    20.00      3.70     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
PIP                              59.00    64.00    21.52    28.00    30.00    30.00       30.00
Other                               ...      ...    27.70      ...
Amortization                      -49.00   -60.07   -62.71   -59.15   -62.81   -59.98    -81.59
Private                           -13.90   -68.96   -63.90      5.80     0.00      0.00      0.00
Overall balance                      -51.90  -103.93  -103.25   -98.74  -102.86   -70.17    -71.88
Financing                            51.90   103.93   103.25    98.70   -69.50    -5.83       71.88
Banking system (net)                -2.10    23.90    13.60   -76.50   -67.90   -45.10    -29.40
Central bank (net)               29.90    31.90    -2.40   -87.70   -62.90   -45.10    -29.40
Reserves (-,increase)          -2.00    18.50      4.00    -0.90   -10.00   -20.00    -20.00
IMF (net)                      33.90      7.40     8.80   -50.80   -43.40   -25.10      -9.40
Other (net)                    -2.00      6.00   -15.20   -36.00    -9.50       ...       ...
Comnercial bank (net)           -32.00    -8.00    16.00    11.20    -5.00      0.00       0.00
Arrears                            -98.00    80.00   -18.50   116.90   -58.80  -147.10    -59.00
Debt relief                        152.00     0.00   108.20    58.30   133.20    78.00    86.30
Escrow Account for IN? arrears                                           -76.00      76.0
Residual Cash Gap                     0.00     0.03    -0.05     0.04   172.36   108.37      73.98



- 51-                                     Annex II
Pa-ge 1 of 2
ScedH"ule 0
STATUS OF BANK CROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMLIA
STATEMENT OF SANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of MIrCh 31. 1989)
--(S1 Illl I ton)
Amount (L   Canel lntions)
Loan or
Credit                                                                                  Undi-
Numer              Year      Borrowr Purpose                     Bank          IDA      bursed /
Twenty-one credits fully disbursed                                              148.88
Cr. 972-SO         1979      Somali:   ay Region Agriculture                    12.00     1.00
Cr. 110S-SO        1981      Smlit   Fourth Education                           10.20    0.19
Cr. 1824-SO        1988     Somalia   Fourth Highway                            28.00    0.42
Cr. 1484-SO        1984    SbMlta   AAfgoy Gas DOlInImtion                      18.00    6.65
Cr. 14865-S0       1964      homlt    Fisheries Explo. Prom.                   18.50       .60
Cr. 1588-SO       1t85       SomalIa   NW Region Agrtc. Dev.                    10.60    7.76
Cr. 1812-SO        1986      Somaia   Agricultural Inputs
Program I                           10.00       .8S
cr. 1n1-so         10       Somil  Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program                  80.00    2.48
Cr. A020-SO  /        1987  Smalit   Agriocultural Sector
Adjustment Program                  82.60    5.18
Cr. 147-S0         1080     Somall    Lvestock Health Service                    4.80    4.21
Cr. 1728-SO        1088     Somalia  Ports Modrnizatlon                         22.60   19.82
Cr. 1774-SO 0      1987      Somalis  SI-Mechanized Rainfed Agric.              18.40    11.82
Cr. 174-0         1987     Somala   2nd Agricultural Extenion                  12.70   10.18
Cr. 1850-SO        1088      Somalia  Powr Rehab.                               12.50     7.58
Cr. 1658-SO        1908     Somall    Banrdhere Tech. Aset.                       6.50    2.69
Cr. 1957-S0        1989     Somali   Central Rangelands It                      19 00   1S."
Total . .........                     ... 8 .28
of which has been repaid                      11.88
Total now held by IDA                       8an.98
Total Undlebursed                                      908.0
NOTE:
1. Special African Facility.
2. Current estimted dollar equivalent of undisbursed SDR credit balance.



-52-                                     Annex II
Page 2 of 2
Schdule D
STAT T O  !FC INVESTIMETS
(AS of Morch 81a 1989)
U11 MilIIon
Fl... I                                         Type of                      Aimount
Year              Obilastor                     !u.inea             Loan      Ecuit    Total
1981              Somli Moloas   Co. Ltd.       Food Proc.         0.37        -       0.7
190i              Polypropylene lag Co.         Polypropylon, lags 0.98        -       0.98
Total Gross ComItments                           1.35        -       1.85
Les Repaymnts                                    0.84        -      0.84
Total now hold by IFC                            1.01        -       1.01
Total undlsbursed                                0.0         -      0.0



- 53 -
Annex III
SOAIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM 1I
SUPPLDMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time teken to prepare project                 9 months (24 months elapsed time)
(b)   Project prepared by                           IDA staff in collaboration with AfDF
(c)   Identification mission                        June 1987
(d)   Appraisal mission                             September 1987; post appraisals in
July 1988 and February 1989
(e)   Negotiations                                  April 1989
(f)   Planned date of Effectiveness                 July 17, 1989
Section II - Special IDA Implementation Action:    None
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)   Establishment of the project account in the Central Bank (para 116).
(b)   Appointment of the head of the Social Action Unit satisfactory to IDA
(para 91).
(c)   Establishment  of the social action fund (para 94).
Conditions of Second Tranche Release   (para. 121)
(a)   Agreement with IDA on the three year public investment program covering 1990-
1992.
(b)   Agreement with IDA on propos'als for the public expenditure program to be included
in the FY1990 Government budget.
(c)   Based on a revised tariff structure agreed with to IDA, the establishment
and implementation of an import verification system satisfactory to IDA.
(d)   Agreement with IDA on an action plan for the institutional development of ADC and
ENC.
(e)   Agreement with IDA on an action plan to improve land tenure policy and
administration for irrigated land.



- 54 -                                  Annex IV
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
MATUX OF POLICY ISSE    STRATSGIESI AID ACTIONS IN ASAP I
Actlons Token and
Issues Wd Strategy                  Actlen Required undsr ASIP                   SecInd Trenche Conditions
Objectives                                                                       Implemeeted Under ASAP I
Macreconomic1 PelTeto.
Uacroecenomic and Aericultural Potics Ref_orm
(A) To continue macroeconomic       To eupport macroecoomic reform; increase    DOurin the fir t 16 oneths of the
policy reform and g_nral       role of privet   sector In the e  ony        credit the Government continued its
deontrol of the ecoa my, end   including improved supply of agricultural    reform prgram. A ltter of intent
to further strogkhea end       Input; and strengthen lnetitutions           on agricultural policy in which the
deepen agricultural policy     responsible for tereor  In agriculture.      00  mae com_itmetn to further
adjustnt.                                                                    refors was relved as a condition of
the second tr&nche. Howver in
_Fp~ember 167 tile foreign exchange
aution snd many other aspects of
conmic policy were abandoned.
Dlebu_rsmnt for Imports of goods
was suspended. Following an
Intensive series of discussions the
Covernm_nt Introduced major
improvements  In policy In July 198.
torern  teans *llocction syste
A  intrducd to replaee the auction
in November 168.
Price Policy and Larkitina
(A) To reduce or *linte the       Pricing for diesel fuel sold by  nS in the   Continuation of 005 diesl fuel sales
regulatIon of pries In         d le  market t lmport perity asins           at border prices.  In recent months,
product and ttor mrket         market schang  rate.                         becuse of the rapid devaluation,
(fuel, hids and skins, sod                                                  price  have logged behind ctf levels,
topical vetrinary drug).       Private sector to obtain liens, to           Liensn  can be obtained by traders
import *nd dlitrlbut dill fuel and          with aeess to adequate atorage
Ilubeicnt,.                                 facilities and sa*fty sasures.
Study of the domsIC end euport mrketing   The tdy recowmided liberal tation
of hides ad skimts, aWd follow-up on         of the mrket for raw and hides, and
action  agreed betwn the tO  and IDA as    skins dometieally; for processed
part of second trench. Conditions.           hide and skines, al markets. In the
event, at negotiations on the seond
tranche, IDA and OS agreed to
dcentol etof the domestic market for
raw hides and skins.
The COS sold take m ures to ensure           The trade In topical veterinary drugs
that toplal (non Injectible) veterianry     was decontrolled.
drus M*y be Imported   d trded by
qualified persona.



- 55 -                             Aiex IV
Page 2 of 3
SOMALIA
MATRIX OF POLICY ISSlUES. STUTEGIES AND ACTIONS IT ASAP I
Aetlonn Tekon and -
I_aus a" Straty                     Actln  Reulred under SAP I                   Second Tr'ndch Conditions
Objectle                                                                           aplented Under AP I
Pt.  c Sctor lnvestmnt and   n nt
(a) Toeimpre the                    The ON Shold inu,e a set f  poratlng         Continewd d   of Improved operating
operational officloncy          priaciple, aimd at Improving grain           principle. for grain mrkoting *nd
of pubilc sector                mrketing and food oid mnagemnt.              fooid mngent lned by 0O as
enterpries  involved tn                                                      condtin  f effetivness. A rport
processing ad maketing         Tecnical assistance for 4C and ENC almd   from the technical sistance twa
of agricultural                 at s rgthening it   n    nt, inprovtng         ll soon be val table.
product.                        it. ain mretng actvtie. nd
etaiblishbingoperatinlbI guideline. on
floor price. ,eling price., se 1-of foed
aid and the distribution of co_eslonal
grain Imports to gove rnnt Institution
w_- areed.
(b) To Impree the contribution      A PIP was prpered by 0. Technical            An approved PIP was prepared by the
of the pubtle investment       *lotane to lmprove the statistical             O nd mat a conditeon of th secod
program to agricultural        bals for planning io the agricultural         trench.
growth.                         sector.
(e) To imprevo cost recovery and    Technical asoIetane to a*eos ONAT coee       GHAT regularly Incr      mosd rental
provide mere ef iietntly for    and to Implement machinery rehabilIt tion    rates. It achloved full cost
recurrent co Ot, In            progra  and tratning Of workshop taf In    reovery for tractor rentl at the
rlcublar charge made by       the MOA.                                     tim  of the   - c       tranch   It nom
^T (the tractor hire                                                         ohowe on "permtine proelt
agsny) were reulred to
re ch full cost recovry
lo"ele.  _habilitation of 00
agricultural machinery.
(d) To lmproer donor coordinatlen   The 00$ and IDA wil exchango vimn on th    Dlacsalone were hold regularly wIth
to, inter all, lncre_  the    poje ct nd provide IDA with infoterdtion,    my denore toexplore availability
sapely of fund. at foreign                                                   of additional fund. for foreign
exchange auctins                                                             exchango auction under the Program.
USAID and the Italian governmnt
contributed to the foreign *xchange
auctiona. The COS provided all
Information requested.



-56-                               Annex TV
Page 3 of 3
MAT1IX OF POLICY ISSUES. STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS IN ASAP I
Actions Taksn s
Isues and Strategy                 Atons  eqired under AP I                     Scd Tranch. Co"ditloae
Objectives                                                                      Iplemented Under ASAP I
Rural Fln .
(a) To Improve the oval lability     SO an CMS to move towrds Teitltv           Rel Interest rote  were moving
of agricultural credit oW      lterest rates for borre                     twards poeitlv  rats during 1087,
stimuloe rural savings.        arIsulture.                                  ther. was a r.v.rsl durla the
hypriatf lotion of 19 , lnterest
(b) To Improve Institutional                                                    rWte to aricultural borrer were
*reangsonts for agricultural                                                positive In rest xterm  on th  bale
credit end savins, I.e. to                                                  ofnmedium-term Inflotien projection
Improve financil                                                            at th time of the snd trnch.
intermdiation.
(c) To bring In rest rates on
laoe to agriculture IOt
ltne wlth morket rates.
IOWAt Supply
(a) To ensure the avel labilIty Of  A foreign exchaneo  uction will be          Foreign exchang auction w*
foreign exchange to purchase,  established to l prove the  vai labilIty of   established.
inter *lls, aricultural fIinncial reource  for the Import of
Ta-PuWa-ioupport the           goods for the So"aiI economy. The program
adeption of better technology  will alse further encourage the
stimulated by the Improved     porticipatlon of smiler traders by
price lncentives In            *lloving bids at auction as law as 15,051
subsectora such as grains,     equivalent.
fruit production, fisheries
and livestock
(b) To schlevo a greeter and more   -                                           There mIntensive porticipttlon by
far-reaching involvement of                                                 the private sector In the foreign
the privatt sectr in the                                                    exchange auction (aubtequently the
morketing nd distrlbution of                                                foreign exchnge allocation system).
purchased Inputs.



- 57 -                        Annex V
SOMALIA
AGRICULiRL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM nI
Trends in Production. Area Harvested and Yield
for Sorghum and Maize
Production       Area Barvested              Yield
Year     Sorghum  Maize       Sorghum   Maize        Sorghum    Maize
--('000 tons)--     ---('000 ha)---        --(tons per ha)--
1970       158      122         290       133          0.55       0.92
1971       128       99         280       102          0.46       0.97
1972       149      115         390       117          0.38       0.98
1973       128        99        345       101          0.37       0.98
1974       125       97         330        99          0.38       0.98
1975       134      104         400       106          0.34       0.98
1976       140      108         490       119          0.29       0.90
1977       145      111         458       151          0.32       0.74
1978       141      108         420       148          0.34       0.72
1979       140      108         461       148          0.30       0.73
1980       140      110         457       109          0.31       1.01
1981       222      142         517       197          0.43       0.72
1982       235      150         540       209          0.43       0.72
1983       121      236         335       219          0.36       1.08
1984       221      270         548       220          0.41       1.23
1985       222      280         447       234          0.50       1.20
1.86       237      336         385       245          0.62       1.37
1987       244      286         516       260          1.10       1.10
1988       234      353         570       281          1.26       1.26
Growth Rates (Percent per annum)
1970-78    3.6      7.6         2.6       6.0          1.0        1.5
R2          .55       .76        .47        .81         .57         .65
1978-88    5.9     14.7         1.1       7.8          5.0        6.5
R2          .47       .91        .05        .76         .08         .17
1980-88    5.1     15.3         0.8       8.7         17.1        6.09
R2          .28       .87        .02        .69         .79         .48
Source:   Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Food Early
Warning System.



- 58 -                       Annex VI
Page 1 of 6
SOMALIA
AGUCULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENS PROGRAM It
Social Action Program - Examples of Possible SubProiects
A.    Mother and Child Health (MCH) Centres
1.          There are 16 MCH centres located in the 13 districts of Mogadishu.
These deliver an essential health care service to pregnant and lactating
mothers, and children under 5 years. The services include: ante-natal and
post-natal care of mothers, immunization for mothers and children, growth
monitoring for children under 5 years, health education, basic drugs
(antibiotics, antihelmetics, oral rehydration salts, etc.) and World Food
Programme food aid to families with malnourished children. A network of
trained and untrained traditional birth attendants (TBA's) is attached to each
MCH. In the cases of the trained TBSs drugs supplies and equipment are
regularly supplied to them through their local MCH. 3f all the health service
the MCH centres have the closest contact with the largest number of poor
households in the city.
2.          Although the national office of the MCH programme has an
established supply line for drugs, as well as technical assistance to assist
with staff training, many of the MCH's are in urgent need of the most basic
repairs. In addition basic amenities such as functioning latrines,
electricity and water supply are absent from a number of the MCH's. A survey
carried out by local private consultants in late 1987 showed that repairs to
the value of $142,000 were needed.
3.          In 28 of the 79 districts outside Mogadishu, where there is no
Primary Health Care Program in operation, the MCR centres are the most
important, and often only health services available for women and young
children. As in Mogadishu there are major needs for renovation, and in many
cases, for the installation of latrines and water supply. While drug supplies
and staff are available for these MCH's many of the newly trained staff are
reluctant to work in such areas because of their isolation. In order to
mitigate the difficulties (including costs) of living in such areas it is
proposed that a housing annex be built onto the existing MCH centres, for the
use of the District Midwife. A survey is needed to assess materials needs and
construction costs for both the repair and construction work involved. This
would require the involvement of both Ministry of Health staff and private
consultant engineer for a period of at least 4 weeks.



-59                          Anex VI
Page 2 of 6
B.   Women'as Skills Training Centre
4.          Since early 1988 the Urban Basic Services Project of the
Municipality of Mogadishu has operated a centre providing skills training,
literacy training and health education to approximately 100 women from poor
families in Wadajir district. A pre-school, koranic school and small scale
feeding programs have also been provided for their children between 3 and 6
years. The aims of the centre were to give the women improved income earning
opportunities and to develop pro-school attitudes amongst the women which
might lead to increased primary school attendance by their children. Centre
staff have been provided by Municipality of Mogadishu and the Family Life
Programme of the Ministry of Education. Technical assistance and funding of
some non-staff operating costs have been provided by Concern (Ireland) and
more recently by UNICEP. The women currently using the centre were originally
selected from the nearby community, including two squatter areas, on the basis
of referral by local officials and detailed interviews by project staff.
Recently the selection of a second group of women has begun, but this time
using referral by the nearby Mother and Child Health Care centre as a main
source of applicants (based on nutrition status of their children). It is
planned that the first group of women who have now completed their training
should be given the opportunity to take loans from the project in order to
facilitate their entry into small business activities, using the skills they
have acquired.
5.          The centre currently operates from two rented houses costing
$1,600 a year to rent. The Municipality has allocated land near to the
present centre and the local MCH for the construction of a permanent Women's
Training centre; however funds have not been available to go ahead with
construction. There is a risk that if the land is not used the Municipality
will be pressured to re-allocate the land for other uses. The Urban Basic
Services Project estimates that it needs US20,000 to construct suitable
buildings. Including costs of a loan fund for ex-trainees, additional
furniture and equipment for a newly built centre the total amount of funds
needed is estimated to be US$29,000.
C.    Income Generation Assistance for Families with Malnourished Children
6.          With the exception of the above project, until now the only form
of assistance given to families with malnourished children in urban areas has
been World Food Programme food aid distributed through the MCH centres on a
once a month basis. Recent research into the income sources of such families
who have attended a MCH centre in Mogadishu has shown that at least 802 of the
families are very poor. A number of the mothers interviewed reported that
their families did not eat every day, because of lack of income. It is clear
from the research that a range of strategies would be needed to assist these
types of families. In some cases skills training opportunities, access to
specific health services, health education, as well as mediation and advocacy
on behalf of the family will be more appropriate.
7.          The UBS project would now like to start up a service which would
reach this type of household in Raaraan District of Mogadishu. Kaaraan is the
second largest District (90,000 people) in the city and contains a large



- 60 -                        Annex VI
Page 3 of 6
number of low income households including those in the squatter resettlement
area knonn as Gubadley. At least two core staf would be allocated to this
sub-project by Municipality, from within its own establishment. These staff
would be given training support by a Social Worker provided for an initial
period of two years by the British Organization for Community Development
(BOCD). During this period it is planned that the service will operate out of
rented premises within the district. Subject to the satisfactory development
of the project more permanent premises will be established at a later date.
Assistance with rental costs and other overheads will be given by UNICEF. At
this stage the Municipality is seeking funding to cover the cost of BOCD
technical assistance, one project vehicle, and an initial fund for credit
extension and for subsidizing apprenticeship opportunities. A total of
US$40,000 is being sought.
D.    Basic Education for Street Children
8.          Since late 1988 the Urban Basic Services (UBS) of the Municipality
of Mogadishu has been operating a drop-in centre for street children, located
in a single room in the centre of the city. This project works both with
children living on the street day and night and with those who work on the
street in the day but who return to their families at night. Staff have been
provided by the Municipality and training assistance for those staff has been
provided by a Caritas social worker. Financial support has been given for
equipment and other costs by UNICEF. The project is supported by an Advisory
Committee of Somali nationals plus a representative from UNILZF. This
committee supports the project through the networks it can access and at the
same time it is a vehicle through which the project is trying to educate the
community at large about the social issues involved.
9.          Because of the establishment of a new open air market  immediately
next door to the centre and because of the increase in number of street
children (girls as well as boys) already attending classes in the one
classroom/office, extra space is badly needed. In the longer term the project
also needs to expand to other key areas (major markets) of the city where many
other street children are concentrated. Overall, it has been estimated that
there are approximately 4,000 working children in the city, of which 200 are
thought to be sleeping in the markets and streets. The UBS project is seeking
financing to build extra rooms onto the existing office and to purchase
locally made furniture and equipment for use there. In addition, it will need
funds to cover the cost of small offices in the three other areas of the city
(Vadjir, Kaaraan and Siinay) and at least one vehicle to enable staff to
extend and coordinate their work across the city. Extra staff will be
provided by the Municipality from within its existing establishment.
E.    Improved Transport Services for Squatter re resettlement dwellers
10.         The main transit system of the city is based on the use of a large
number of mini-buses owned by individual entrepreneurs all of whom belong to a
single Transport Cooperative. These buses ply fixed routes for a fixed
charge, both of which are set by the Cooperative. Most areas of the city are
well served but the peripheral areas where many of the poorer households are
living are not. The main reason is the lack of sealed roads in those areas



- 61 -                       Annex VI
Page 4 of 6
which can be used as bus routes.  Unsealed roads are easily made impassable by
accumulations of sand, or alternatively, gully erosion after the annual rains.
11.         The drea worst served by buses is Kaaraan District on the north
side of the city. It is on the outskirts of this area that Gubadley, the
squatter resettlement area, is located. The main road linking Gubadley with
the rest of Mogadishu (approximately 8 km) is a very rough unimproved track
that has developed spontaneously in response to need. However all buses going
to and from Gubadley depend on it. Improvements to the quality of this road,
either by laying a stone or tarmac surface would reduce the wear and tear on
buses using the route and make other bus owners willing to put their vehicles
on this route. If this work were carried out in the early part of the
calendar year labouring work would be generated for people in the area, many
of whom are seasonally unemployed at this time. This includes those who
normally work as labourers at the nearby lime kilns which cannot operate
during the 'Julaal' (the long hot dry season) because the high winds at that
time reduce the effectiveness of the kilns.
12.         The Municipality of Mogadishu normally determines which roads are
priorities for development and then contracts the work to be done. In this
case making funds specifically available for road development on the periphery
of the city will enable the Municipality to facilitate the extension of the
bus system in those areas. The work could be executed by either an NGO or a
private contractor, on condition that all labour was hired from within the
area the roads were serving. This action would be designed as a Public Works
High Labour Intensity project.
13.         Funding of road development would need to be conditional on an
agreement being reached on an appropriate system for road maintenance. In the
case of the road to Gubadley, repair work could be carried out by contracting
the repair work to the Gubadley community as a whole.  This could be
coordinated through the area leader (Guuudomiye). Financing of the costs
could come from the collection of a toll charge. Trucks (more than 100 a day)
using this road are already being charged a toll, which goes to the Stone
Quarry Cooperative and the Municipality. It would not be difficult to adapt
this system to collect fees specifically for the funding of ongoing road
repair work (both materials and labour). In other parts of the country it is
common to see individual men doing road repair on their own initiative, in the
hope of receiving casual payments from passing vehicles. If the Gubadley
experiment is successful consideration should be given to extending the
village contract approach to other towns along the major roads.
P.    Improved Water Quality for Squatter Resettlement Dwellers
14.         Increasing fuel prices are causing many residents of Gubadley to
turn from using trucked water to water from open wells that have been dug
throughout the settlement. Tests in 1988 have shown that many of these have
high levels of E.coli pollution and are a public health risk. Examination of
these wells, which are all privately owned, has shown that the water
withdrawal methods are the main cause of the high pollution levels.
Installation of hand pumps and covering the wells would be the most
appropriate imediate action. In the longer term a mains water supply
extension from the city supply, with standpipes built along the extension,



-62 -                         Annex VI
Page 5 of 6
would be the most appropriate solution. The Municipality of Mogadishu is now
seeking US$32,000 to cover supplies and installation costs for work to be done
on 16 wells. Labour for the work involved will come from within Gubadley.
Maintenance costs would be covered by the well owners from their profits.
G.    Primary School Education in Squatter Resettlement Area
15.         Approximately 5,000 households are living in Gubadley, a squatter
re-settlement area on the northern fringe of Mogadishu. Primary school
attendance rates are very low (girls; 172 boys; 15?), largely because there is
no primary school in the vhole settlement. In other less isolated squatter
settlements similar in character the attendance rates are two to three times
higher. It is quite likely that current rates of attendance will fall to even
lower levels in the coming year or so. Increases in fuel prices, flowing on
from the structural adjustment program, will in turn increase the cost of
school attendance for children in this area because of their need to use bus
transport to get to schools in other areas of the city.
16.         Al Muntadhar, a local non-government organization which has
already built a MCH centre for the settlement, has taken some steps to develop
education facilities in the areas. Over a year ago Al Muntahdar started
construction of an eight classroom primary school. However construction has
been suspended for the past six months because of lack of funds to complete
the work. This has not been because of any weakness in the organization. The
chairman of Al-Muntadhar has worked ha-rd over the past years to establish the
MCH centre and is cooperating very closely with the MCH office in the Ministry
of Health to ensure that appropriate health services are being provided by the
MCH centre. The MCH centre is in fact being staffed by Ministry of Heath
staff but their salaries are supplemented by Al Muntadhar. Other recurring
costs are also being funded by Al Muntadhar, from a diversity of sources.
17.         Al Muntadhar proposes that the school it is trying to build would
be staffed and run by the Ministry of Education on a similar basis to the MCR
centre. As with the MC$ centre some costs will be recovered by user fees, a
practice which the government now accepts. However because of the low income
levels of households in this community these cannot be set too high. The most
pressing need at this stage is for funds to enable the completion of the
school. Al Muntadhar estimates that US$14,000 to complete the construction
work and provide equipment for the school. As has already been the case the
construction work up to now, all labour will be hired from with the
settlement.
F.    Low Cost Housing for low Income Groups
18.         Over the past four years, Habitat has assisted the Ministry of
Housing and Construction to develop a number of means of providing low cost
housing for low income groups. These have includeds loan schemes for home
builders, public examples of low cost housing, a model site development,
proposals for legalization of squatter areas to encourage spontaneous
upgrading, and low cost building materials. Low cost building material is the
only aspect of the program that has the potential to be immediately utilized
by families who have no title to their land, living in the squatter areas of
the city. For example, the sisal reinforced cement tiles which have been



-63 -                        Annex Vl
Page 6 of 6
developed are currently a quarter of the cost of corrugated iron, which is
widely used as both roofing and wall material in all the squatter areas of the
city. This price advantage is unlikely to be eroded as prices of imported
items increase, and may in fact become greater when the cement factory in the
north of the country resumes operations.
19.         The Ministry now wishes to import the machinery for making sisal
based cement and sell it to local entrepreneurs on an installment basis.
There are a number of makers of concrete blocks and pipes who have already
expressed interest in the process. These businesses are widespread throughout
the city and already employ a substantial amount of unskilled labour. Funds
are needed to import an initial supply of machines, and to cover the costs of
promoting the machines aid their products more widely amongst the business
community. Further imports would be financed by repayments (and associated
interest charges) being made for the initial stock.
H.    Credit Extension for small businesses
20.         Within Mogadishu there are currently two credit extension projects
being supported by two organizations (UNICEF and CARE (USA)). Both are
targeted to women. In one case the women were already self employed. In the
other some were self-employed and others were wanting to become self-employed.
Both aim to increase savings as well as improve the profit levels of the
womens' enterprises. Both have linked the women to local banks who are acting
at this stage simply as repositories of savings. At a later stage it is hoped
that the women will be able to take loans from the bank, on the basis of their
past business performance and relationship with the bank. Both programs are
likely to expand in the near future.
21.         These projects are only one of a range of possible approaches to
credit extension. The inclusion of proposal within the structural adjustment
program to allow local and foreign private banks to operate in Somalia should
make it possible for a much broader variety of credit programs to be
experimented with. In this environment it is likely that the Special Fund for
Social Action will receive a significant number of proposals for credit
programs. Rather than discourage too many organizations from operating such
programs it would be more appropriate to take advantage of the diversity of
experience that will result. What is needed in these circumstances is cross-
fertilization and accumulation of the lessons that can be learned rather than
simply control and coordination.
22.         For this reason it is proposed that the beneficiaries of the
credit programs should themselves be significant participants in a periodic
joint review of credit programs currently in operation. This at-least-annual
review should also include representatives from the implementing
organizations, the Special Fund for Social Action and a person(s) from outside
Somalia with direct experience in credit extension. It is proposed that the
Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management would host the
review, utilising both its staff and students, particularly those involved in
business administration studies. Participation by UNICEF staff would bring in
an additional and broader perspective on women and children's welfare.



-64-                         Annex VII
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM II
Import Verification System
Draft Terms of Reference
1.  Backsround
The Somali Government is committed to the development of a trade
verification system to improve revenue collection at points of entry of
goods into Somalia, to ensure the quality of goods imported meets contract
specification, to monitor imports in order to deter capital flight and to
train Somali officials in trade verification methods.
To this end, the Government is interested in obtaining the services
of an inspection firm to provide technical assistance and a training
program to meet the objectives of the trade verification system.
2.  Obiectives
The objectives of the technical assistance and the training program
are to introduce appropriate systems and procedures to:
(a) determine the value for customs purposes of goods
entering Somalia, with the exctption of those goods
exempted from duties and taxes in accordance with Law
No. 5 of 1968 and Law No. 18 of 1973;
(b) identify all incidence of overlunder-invoiced imports,
and report same to the appropriate authority for
action as deemed necessary;
(c) establish that the quality and quantity of goods
imported in Somalia are in accordance with contractual
specifications established between importer and
exporter;
(d) develop and initiate a training program for officials
of the Customs Department in the Ministry of Finance
and Revenue with particular emphasis on methods of
valuation of imports;
(e) speed-up the transit time of goods passing through
Somali ports;
(f) streamline existing customs documentary procedures;
(g) achieve a transfer of know how and technology to
Somali Customs Officials in order that eventually they
can operate their own system more efficiently.



- 65
Annex VII
Page 2 of 3
3.  ScoPe of Work
The consulting firm shall:
A.   Provide the following services:
i)   the inspection of goods to be imported for
quality and quantity is to be carried out at
factory of the contractor andlor in the
ports of shipment;
ii)  inspection of the goods for quality and
quantity is to be carried out to determine
whether they meet the description,
specifications and quantizies specified in
the contracts;
iii) unless otherwise provided for in the
contract, the basic inspection procedure is
to be a visual examination although more
detailed tests including laboratory analysis
will be made where appropriate taking into
consideration such factors as the
manufacturing processes and controls of the
producers;
iv) quality inspection of imported goods with a
P.O.B. equivalent vilue of more than
US$5,000 including partial shipments;
v)  price comparison of goods in the country of
supply in order to verify on the basis of
obtainable information, whether the price
elements of the total amount invoiced by
foreign suppliers in respect of such goods,
correspond within reasonable limits with the
export price levels generally prevailing in
the country of supply or where applicable,
the world market. Price comparison is not
to be made on goods contracted for as a
result of ICB in World Bank financed
projects;
vi)  on the basis of the physical inspection and
price comparison determine the appropriate
customs classification, dutiable value and
tariff rate in accordance with published
Somali regulations;
vii) trace and report commissions payable to
beneficiaries In Somalia.
B. Establish a system of reporting as follows:



- 66 -
Annex VII
Page 3 of 3
L)   a clean report of findings (CRF) is to be
issued whenever the inspection yields a
satisfactory result with respect to quantity
and quality and when required, the price
comparison has been completed
satisfactorily;
ii)  advise the supplier of any discrepancies
found during inspection and if the supplier
fails to correct all such discrepancies in a
timely manner, the CRF will be withheld and
the importer and the Government will receive
a report on uncorrected discrepancies.
Copies of the CRF will be provided to the
supplier as required in the contract;
iii) where the settlement of a commodity sale is
to take place on the basis of w-eight and
quality landed at point of discharge (for
instance in the case of contracts concluded
on the standard forms of international trade
associations), the issuance of a CRF will
not preclude final settlement on the basis
of figures ascertained at the point stated
in the contract of sale;
iv)  periodical summaries will be issued of
foreign exchange savings, under invoicing,
commissions payable to beneficiaries in
Somalia and discrepancies of quality and
quantity.
C. Develop and initiate a training program to develop the skills of
the Customs Department officials in monitoring imports with particular
emphasis on evaluating the quality and price of goods.
D. Develop a plan of action to implement the pre-shipment inspection
program as of _    (date_ _



6Annex VIII
67                      ~~~~~~~~Page 1 of 16
Jltmlhutirivalida Dim. Soomaaliya  - 6 -l                           !t    o 1
WASAARADA. MAALIYADDA
Xafiiska Was;irka                                          .  <<O>)
Somali Democratic Republic
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Office of the Minister
/69 ft 6C         DATE 3 0 APR .:
Mr. BARBER CONABLE
President
International DeveloDment Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washinqton, D.C.
U.S.A.
Subject : LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Conable,
1.    The  objectives and policies to be pursued as  oart  of  the
Government of Somalia's three year program of economic and
financial adjustment are set out in the Policv Framework Paper
(PFP) covering the period January 1989 - December 1991. The PFP
was prepared in collaboration with the staffs of the World Bank
and the International Monetarv Fund and was transmitted to vou on
March 31 . 1989. In support of this adjustment program, and in
particular, in support of an integrated package of policies being
pursued as part of an agricultural sector adjustment Program, the
Government   of  Somalia  hereby  requests  a  credit   from   the
International Development Association (IDA). This credit will
supplement support we will be seekina from other donors to ensure
that we have adeauate resources to implement the proqram. To this
end. let me attempt to set our present adjustment efforts in the
context of recent developments, and to spell out the objectives of
the adjustment program, the measures taken to date and those
planned durinq the 1989-91 period. A matrix of the policy measures
to be supported by IDA's Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit is attached to this letter.
Backaround
2.    Somalia is one of the lowest income countries in  the  world
with underdeveloped resources. The performance of our agrarian
based economy has been very much under the influence of weather
conditions. Its heavv dependence on the export of livestock has
also accounted for vast variations in economic Performance.
Somalia's low levels of savings and insufficient public revenue
creates a heavv reliance on external assistance for the financina
of its economic development. I would like to acknowledge the
suoport we have received in the past from our firends and from the
World Bank which has been much appreciated.
,.,,



-68 -                    Annex VII1
Page 2 of 16
3,    Somalia has implemented a number of adiustment  proorams  in
the 1980's. The program my government Dut toghether in early 1987
was   provided  financial  supoort  bv  Fund  Stand-bv   and   SAF
arrangements, as well as by the Bank's first Agricultural Sector
Adiustment   Proqram  Credit.  However,  implementation  of   some
elements   of  this  program  were  temporarily  interruDted.   In
Spetember 1987. the Goverenment decided to discontinue the auction
for foreign exchange and set a fixed exchange rate for the So. Sh.
Subseauentlv. orice controls were introduced in Februarv 1988. The
reason behind this decision was our concern about the rate at
which the So.Sh. was losina value in the auction. and its
consequences for domestic inflation. The intention was not to
discontinue the adjustment proqram but to reassess our policies
with a view to ensuring the sustainabilitY of our adiustment
efforts. However, this decision caused a sianificant reduction in
the amount of ouick disbursing external assistance available to
the Government. In the followina months imoort were drasticallv
reduced and shortages of essential goods became widesoread.
Despite our efforts to pursue tiqht fiscal and monetarv Dolicies
beginning in 1988. the inflation rate accelerated due to the
exoansionarv policies of the earlier period.
4.    Throughout  this painful of reassessment, we were  in  close
touch with the staffs of the Bank and the Fund and aooreciate the
understanding shown and the assistance Provided in redesianino our
policies to better suit Somalia's special circumstances. Our
reassessment of policies has reconfirmed the central importance of
fiscal and monetarv discipline as a precondition for structural
adiustment.   We  also  recognize  the  critical   imoortance   of
establishina  a realistic and flexible exchanae rate  policv,  and
the  related  importance to incentives throughout the  economv  of
establishina    relaistic   relative   orices.   Following    this
reassessment  of  policies, the Government adopted  a  oackage  of
measures coverina the second half of 1988. The orincipal measures
were an 80 per cent depreciation of the exchange rate, the pursuit
of flexible exchange rate policies. the suspension of orice
controls, simolification of the interest rate structure and
substantial increases in nominal interest rates, a restrictive
fiscal policY includina a number of specific revenue raisino
measures. and a tight credit policy.



-69 -                    Anex VIII
Page 3 of 16
5.    1 am  nleased to be able to say that  virtuallv  all  these
measures  were  fully  imolemented,  and  are  already  having   a
beneficial impact on the economy. The overall fiscal deficit on a
commitments basis and excluding grants was reduced from 25 oercent
of  GDP  in  1987 to 18 oer cent of GDP in  1988.  due  mainlv  to
substantial reductions in government expenditure. The government's
recourse  to bank financina of the deficit fell from neraly 5  oer
cent of GDP in 1987 to 2 percent in 1988. As a result broad monev
growth was substantiallv below the growth of nominal GDP. Thus
demenad  pressures  have  moderated  considerablv  and  with   the
resumption of donors assistance. some of the very serious supply
constraints  excerienced in late 1987 and early 1988  have  eased.
Inflation decelerated in the second half of 1988. However, because
of a weak export oerformance (due to the closure of the port of
Berbera and reduced competitiveness). and the slow down in aid in
the first half of 1988, the balance of payments outturn for the
year as a whole was discouraging, with an accumulation of external
arrears totalling $269 million bv end 1988.
Macroeconomic Adjustment Prooram
6.   The adiustment orogram for the 1989-1991 period builds on the
policies initiated in June 1988. The main elements of our
underlving strategy are: to implement aporopriate macroeconomic
oolicies designed to reduce external and internal imbalances and
pave the wav for a growth oriented adjustment oath; relv on price
and market mechanisrms in resource allocationt and maintain a
steady course of economic oolicies and orovide a hosoitable
environment   for   orivate  sector  oarticioation   in   economic
activities. In Pursuance of this strategv. thw kev macro-economic
objectives over the medium term are (i) to achieve an average
annual increase in real GDP of at least 5 percent: (ii) reduce
oroaressively the rate of inflation to 39 oercent bv the end of
1989 and 13 percent by 1991: (iii) contain the external current
account deficit. excludina official transfers from 28.4 percent of
GDP in 1988 to 23 Percent of GDP in 1991. The main policies to be
pursued to achieve these taroets are set out below:
/



-70-                     Amex VIII
Page 4 of 16
7. Incentive policies: With the exception of a few selected goods
and services, such as aetroleum products, electricitv, water,
telephone and transoort where prices will be determined on the
basis of the cost of production and a reasonable profit margin,
for all other goods and services, price controls have been
abolished and will not be restored. Prices of all commodities will
be allowed to reflect market forces. The liberalization of
agricultural prices and marketing will continue in this period and
the abolition of the remaining exoort monopolies described below.
toaether with a flexible and realistic exchange rate policv, will
further ensure realistic relative oricing.
8.    External  Policies.  The  package  of  July  1988   included
implementaion of a relistic and flexible exchange rate Dolicy. The
Government had already devalued in June 1988 the So.Sh. bv 80
percent in domestic currency terms to So.Sh. 180 eoual to one US
dollar. and Pegged it to a basket of currencies. Thereafter. the
exchange rate has been adjusted weeklv for the relative inflation
rate in Somalia with respect to its trading partners. To further
encourage export trade, we have allowed the exporters to surrender
only 60 oercent of their foreign exchange earnings and retain the
remaining 40 percent. Holders of such foreign exchange have been
allowed to import directlv or trade their holdinos with other
importers at rates to be determined freely between them.
9.    We  have  also out in  place  a  non-discriminatorv  foreicn
exchange allocation system for private sector imports financed by
the commodity assistance program. Everv month, the Central Bank
announces the amount of foreign exchange available and invites
importers to submit their reauests for foreian exchange. These
requests which are subject to a 10 percent non-refundable fee. are
honored on a Drorata basis. The cost of foreign exchange exceeds
the official rate to the extent that the foreign exchange
allocated falls short of the requested amount.
10. The Government will continue to adjust the exchange rate on a
weeklv basis. dependina on the inflation rate differential between
Somalia and its tradina Dartners. in the coming months. We will
also  make  discrete  adjustments  in  the  exchance  rate,   when
necessarv, to avoid the overvaluation of So.Sh. Three such
discrete adjustment have alreadv been made in February, March and
April 1989 (10. 5 and 5 percent resoectivelv in local currency
terms).  Our  main  objective  is  to  ensure  and  maintain   the
competitiveness of Somali export and to rationalize foreian
exchange allocantions. We will also continue to allocate foreian
exchange available under the commoditv assistane programs through
the existing arrangements. The Government olans to eliminate the
10 Percent apolication leavv bv the time the official exchange
rate is adjusted to an eauilibrium level.
'--I.



- 71 -
Amnex VIII
Page 5 of 16
11.   Fiscal Policy. To further lessen inflationary pressures,  we
plan to reduce the overall cash budget deficit, while providing
adequate fianancing to the private sector. This means that
6overnment will be waking large repayments to the banking sector.
Our aim is to increase the ratio of revenue to GDP from about S
percent in 1988 to about 7 percent in 1989, and 10 percent in
1991. In addition to improvements in tax administration, we have
set up a committee in the Ministry of Fianance and Revenue to make
recommendations for modifications of the tax structure, broadening
the tax base, and improving incentives. We have recently completed
a tax study with USAID support, and the IMF will review the atx
system  in the coming months. After reviewing the  recommendations
of these studies, we plan to make the necessary changes in our tax
system over the period 1989-91. We plan to simplify the present
tax structure, introduce ne tax measures, enhance the elasticity
of the system, make the system compatible with efficiency in
resource allocation, and further improve tax administration and
collection. In addition, the Government is committed to fully
reflect changes in the exchange rate on the remaining administered
prices.
12.  We are also putting in place and import verification  system,
with the belp of a consultating firm, to verify the contents and
value of all import shipments and assigning the appropriate juty
rate. The tariff system will also be reviewed and necessary
adjustments  for main import items will be made before the  import
verification system is put in place. The import verification
system   which  will  be  functional  by  1989,  is  expected   to
significantly increase revenue from import duties.
13.   A comprehensive public expenditure review is  being  carried
out jointly with the World Bank. The objective is to restrain and
rationalize expenditure growth and to improve resource allocation
in the public sector. Subject to the fidings and reccomendations
of this review, we intend to increase the relative share of the
social sectors and maintenance expenditure in the budget. We also
intend to increase real wages in the civil service to the extent
that budgetary resources permit. The public investment program
wi11 also be reviewed with respect to its level, sectoral
distribution and project content. Projects with adequate rate of
return  will  be included in the public  investment  program,  and
those that will alleviate bottlenecks to capacity utilization  and
growth will be given priority. We will seek IDA's agreement on the
budgetary measures emerging from the public expenditure review and
on the three-year public investment program covering 1990-92.
/.'



- 72 -                  Annex VIII
Page 6 of 16
14. The Government has decided to begin a phased reallocation of
expenditure by increasing the share of social and economic
expenditure to at least 15 percent in 1989, 18 percent in 1990,
and 20 percent in 1991. We will also reduce outlays on foreign
representation which- place heavy demands on our foreign exchange
earnings. Accordingly, we will reduce these outlays by US$3
million in 1989. The total expenditures on foreign representation
will be no more than US$12 million in 1991.
15.   Monetary Poligy The obJective of our monetary policy  is  to
reduce the rate of inflation and to lessen the pressures on the
balance of payments. The Government simplified the interest rate
structure and raised both the deposit and lending interest rates
in August 1988. The deposit rates became marginally positive in
real terms in the last quarter of 1988, and the Government will
ensure that they will remain so. We plan to reduce domestic credit
expansion and limit the increase in money supply to about 28
percent in 1999. The financial situation of the Commercial and
Savings Bank of Somalia has been seriously weakened in recent
years. Towards improving the Bank s operations, the Government has
contracted with an international accounting firm to audit its
accounts -for 1987 and 198F, and to determine the non-performing
loans. Based on the fidings of this audit, an action plan will be
formulated by mid-1989 to address the financial problems of the
Commercial Bank.  At  the  same  time,  the  Central Bank   will
strenghten  its  inspection and supervision  procedures over  the
banking system.
fAgricultural Sector Adjustment Procram
16.   The  Government  is  fully aware  that  the  growth  of  the
agricultural sector is a crucial element of economic growth for
Somalia. While agriculture operates in an uncertain environement
(for example we had a drought in 1984 and our traditional markets
for  livestock  were  also  closed  of  in  that  year)  we   have
nevertheless achieved an average growth of almost 5 percent per
annum in agriculture since 1980. Agriculture is the sector where
most of our adjustment efforts have focussed in the Dast and it is
therefore pleasing to see that those efforts have shown results.



- 73 -                   Anex VIII
Page 7 of 16
17.   In the early 1980s we completely, decontrolled  the  domestic
arain  oricina  and  marketing trade by  abolishing  the  monopoly
purchasing  poser  of  the  Agricultural  Development  Corporation
(ADC). This had a remarkable impact on economic growth. Grain
production rebounded rapidly and food imports, including food aid,
declined. The ADC now acts as a buyer of last resort. The
Government is firmly committed to maintaining liberal grain
marketing policies, and steps are now being taken to deepen our
adjustments. For example in a study financed by ASAP I we are
investigating the possibility of how ADC can more efficiently
manage its pricing and stock policies and therefore be less of a
burden on the Government's financial resources. We will review the
recommendations of this study, jointly with IDA, and agree on an
action plan. We will also review the findings and recommendations
of this study to effect further improvements in the management of
food aid and in that context assess the future role of the
National Commercial Agency (ENC). This is particularly with a view
to ensure that there are no disincentive effects from food Aid.
19.   In February this year my Government formally announced  that
it   had   taken  a  number  of  major   steps   towards   further
liberalization of agricultural pricing, marketing and trade. We
have lifted the Government monopoly on both the export and
domestic trade in processed and unprocessed hides and skins. We
expect that this policy change, coupled with adjustments in the
exchange rate, will result in significant increases in the export
trade   for   these  commodities,  lead  to   increased   domestic
processing, and therefore provide more domestic employment in this
industry. We have also decontrolled trade in frankincense and
myrrh. of which Somalia is the largest producer in the world;
again we anticipate that this measure will lead to increased
official -exports. We hope that these measures will result in an
additional $16 million in export revenue per year in the medium
term.  The  complete  decontrol of the  importation  and  sale  of
veterinary druas Rod eauipment. as well as veterinary services,
was  another  important policy change. Traders in  drugs  will  be
licensed  and  allowed  to operate without  further  controls;  we
expect  that  these  policies  will  result  in  a  wider  use  of
veterinary  drugs  and  improved animal health. This  will  be  of
considerable importance to our livestock exports. In the coming
months we will take all necessary steps to ensure the effective
implementation of these decision without delay. In particular, we
will monitor the private sector's response to these policies. If
it  is  less than anticipated, we will take remedial  measures  to
remove any remaining policy constraints.



- 74 -                   Annex VIII
Page 8 of 16
19.   Land  Te_nure,  The  current  land  tenure  policy  and  land
administration   are  not  as  equitable  and  efficient  as   the
Government would like. Some aspects of the present situation  are
bottleneck   to  agricultural  development,  in   particular,   to
irrigation  development.  We have therefore launched a  review  of
land policy, laws and regulations governing land tenure. Based  on
this  review we will develop and agree with the Association on  an
action plan aimed at achieving major improvements for irrigated
land.
20.   Financial  Sector and Transport. In addition  to  the  above
actions the Government's announcement in January 1989 included
other policies that will have an impact on the agricultural as
well as other sectors of the economy. All maritime transoort
has  been  decontrolled  with  the  expectation  that  substantial
improvements in shipping transport efficiency and lower costs for
the economy will be realized. Such benefits will be particularly
important   for  livestock  exporters  because  we   expect   that
efficiency will be improved and costs reduced. In addition, the
banking and insurance sector is deregulated. Banks may now be set
up by domestic and foreign private sector alone or in joint
ventures. Private insurance comparies will be permitted -to
establish and operate in Somalia. We will ensure that these
measures are implemented and, where necessary, that follow up
administrative actions are taken.
21. Prior to release of IDA's Second Tranche we will provide your
staff with a progress report on the policy reforms to be supported
by this credit. With this in view, we propose to monitor closely
the implementation of all aspects of the program, report on their
status  semiannually  and  take  prompt  measures  to  deal   with
obstacles'to the realization of the objectives of the program.
Social Impact of Adfustment
22. Although the Government is aware of the need to take a number
of stringent and far reaching measures to corect external and
internal imbalances in the economy, and lay the groundwork for
sustained growth, we are also concerned about the social costs of
these adjustment. It is therefore pleasing that you and your staff
have similar concern and steps are being taken to address these
problems. From our side my Ministry, in collaboration with the
Ministry of National Planning, will be taking the leadership on
this issue.



75 -                   Annex VII
Paie 9 of 16
23.  Finally could I stress again that 6overnment of  Somalia  is
firmly committed to the program of economic and financial policies
outlined in this letter and in the Policy Framework Paper. We will
make  strenuous efforts to ensure that all aspects of the  program
are implemented.
Yours sincerely,
Dr          F
.-i   B~~       and Revenue.



- 76 -                                    Annex VIII
Page 10 of 16
SO_AH1A
AGRICIJLTAL SECTOR  JSI1E              PROGRAM II
Matrix of Policy Issues, Strategies nd Actions
IJaua  and Strtegies   Actolens Alredy Take                 Key Actlis to be Taken undr  the    Tieing
Prgra
Macroeconomlc Pollels
(A) External Policies
The Government *im  to  The Se Sh mm dwelud in June IM   The Govwment  ll kep exchange    Continuoue
mintain a flexible      by 44 pernt In foreign currecy    rates undr constat reiew and
and realstic exchane"  terse, and p_ed toe  basket of       WIII make weekly a4juetmente for
rate policy. to ensure  curr actc. Since then th            prie differentiale blten Soeaia
the competitivenee  of  exchange rate M   be  djusted        nd it maj  trad     pntnr
the enomqy, expand     weekly to correct for relative                                      bee, diecrete adustment wil b
the markets for        rates of inflation with major        md, we  e         ry to  aintetn
traditional experts,    trding partners.                    th     mtitiventess   the economy.
promote output of non-
traditional export     Exporters afr * lened to retain 40
and import substitutes  percet of their foerign exchange
and channel trade and   earnins for Imports.
workers remittances                                         The authorities *ill carry out an    June 199
through the formal     A nn foerilgn excbae allocation    expert comp titi wnee  study and
eonom. Other           system haebe esbl hd                 will subsequently review It
policies will support   *e reby all appilcants receiv       perlodiealy.
the promotlon and      feign exchng on a pre-rat
divorsifIcation of      heels, subject to * ne-refundable
exports. A foreign      0 percent application f
exchange *llocation
system will be         tn January 198, policles were
maintained that In      nnoune d to libertltt  trade In
transparent end non-    key export ectors, and banking,
discrtimintory.         Insurane*nd shipping.



77                                     Annex VIII
Page 11 of 16
SOMALIA
AGEICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTM             PROGRAM II
Matrix of Policy Issues, Strategies and Actions
Issues and Strategies   Actions Already Taken                 Key Actions to be Taken under the    Timing
Progra
Macroeconoeic Pol icea
a. Fiscal Policles
The financial           The Government  as succeasful in      Cash budget deficit will be reduced  FY 1989
operations of the       cutting expenditures  nd reducing    sharply, resulting In large net
Governtent have         the budget deficit In the second      repayments by the Governmet to the
generated large         hslf of 1988. A number of tax         domestic banking system.
deficits. Revenue       measures mere also taken.
performance has
deteriorated. Total    Studies have been carried out on       The recoemmndatione of a comittes   1989-91
expenditures have bee   reforming the tax systm.              working on tax reform will be
biased in favor of                                            Incorporated intO  the system.
investment at the
expense of recurrent                                          Tariffs for main iports will be        Second Tranche
expenditures. This                                            rviewed and adjusted, and an
led to deterioration                                          Import verification system will be
of Infrostructure and                                         established.
services. Also. there
has been serious                                              A comprhenslve public expenditure   December 1989.
underfunding of soial                                         review, including public              Adjustments in
services.  Shrinking                                          Investments, will be carried out      FYI99O to be
size of wage bill                                             *nd r       n dtions agreed between   done as
caused problems In the                                        IDA and C0S will be Incorporated      condition of
civil  ervice. The                                            Into G0S FY1O99  and FYlIl budgets.  second tranche.
program needs to                                              The relative  h re of maintenance    Agreement with
address these problems                                        expenditures, and social   rvices    IDA on PIP for
end try to reverse the                                        sectors will be Increased. Wage       1990-92.
unfavorable trends,                                           will be adjusted upward as much as
the resorces will allow.
Expenditures on foreign               1989-91
repreentation will be reduced
according to on *grd schedule.



- 78 -                             Annex VIII
Page 12 of 16
SOALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AWUSTHERT PROGRAM II
Matrix of Policy Isues. Strategies and Actions
Isues and Strategies   Action  Altredy Taken                 Kcy Action to be Taken urder the    Timin9
Prorgs
Macroeeeanmc Polidte
C. Monetry Policies
The objoctive to to     Interet rate, ructure mm             The Sovrn*1ent will centinu  to      Continuous
reduc the high rate    eimpiIfied i August.t I0, whe         pursue an active an  flexible
Of inflation aWn        deposit rates Vere rased to 4e       inerest rato policy. Interest
atlleite the            peret and ltnding rates to S6        rates wiII be adjusted depending on
prsre  on the           pern                                 Inflation trends to ensure that the
balance of peyfsnft.                                         rel rates remain positive.
Private sector will be  A low was p _ ed opening the
allowed to have acce    banking systm to the private         The audt of the Comnercial Sank      July Is"
to the banking system.   ector, both domestic and foreign,   wl hIe completod and an action
to encourage copetitivenAma.         pian will be prepared to addres
Ito financial problems.
The Central aBnk WIll str ngth n     July 1069 and
Its monitoring and *upeien          continuing
procedures.



- 79 -
-Annex VIII
Page 13 of 16
SoM&ALI
ARICULTRAL SECTOR ADJUNS         N   PRMOM
Matrix of Policy Issues. Strategies and Action In Agriculture
Iro    *n   StrAtem    tction AlreaIr  Teton                  U  Aetign to be like under the  - Tihmn
AariewlturaI Peie PIli, and Narketine
(A).control of Primn
and erketIn9
To reduce or *linats t   onopoly pricin and  erketlg         Gas mll II p tp hmnt *1I necessry    Continuou-
the regulation of      *rr        t _ ter *rlc ltura         a ctlena to Inplemet dc>ontrol
pricr in product and    r                       lygetock)    pollcy for hidne and skine,
faetor markets. Alao  and    u  (e..  ee   le,               ftrnkinene _ nd mrrh, veterinary
to *llminate no-price  *ertilleer.) ha         reovd.       druge. equlpment and service.  Go$
constraints on                                               WIilI reprt to DA on progr    of
Internal and external   Support prima ter grain are       at  lmplemnttion.
trade.                 lbvele betwen Import end export
perity. ADC i boyer et last
resort.
(S)Public Sector
Eneaiases
To improve the         AC no loger hs monopoly poers    Agro_snt on an action plan tor the  Second Trench*
operational etficioncy  in dometic market for grain.         reorganization ot DC and ENC and
of public sector                                             future tunctioms.
enterprinse involved
in procesing and
marketing of
agricultur 1 products.
(C)Fod Aid Management
To improve food oid       S hbd already agreed under A*AP I  The mn  _      fet food aid *iII be   Second trnnehe
mwnageent euch that    to _eare that toed od Is sold or   further Improved. GOS will
food aid does not      distributed at prim  determined by  implment renmn detlena from
diatort Market primo,  a ftre  marke.                        study of ADC ed ENC  whi,ch Will,
and provides maximu                                          iter alia, lead to imprverd toed
contribution to food                                        aid manageent.
security and be lane
of payments.



- 80 -                             Annex VIII
Page 14 of 16
AGRICLTURAL SECTOR ADJUSMM         T PROGMM  I1
Matrix of Policy Issues. Stratenies and Actions
Issues awd Strategies   Aatlon Alreay Take                 KMy Atleo  to be Taken under the    Timing
Preogrm
Tranaortatien. Insurance and Fi..ggeil Servile
(A) Meritim
econerel all maritime  CS8 ha annunced that *1l cotdrle  G611 WIII enure that deontrol          Continuu
tr_asort.              on mritim  transert have bee         policy In implemented.
r_vd.
(8) finncial
3ervic~
To decotrol baki       The GOS b" enacted legislation       G05 *111 tke  taepe to implemet      Continuous
*ervtcm e,pov Ir M"  ^ that .111 *llo any Individual or    decontrol of banking System.
al lbility of          groUp of individuai to establish
agricultural credit    banking fact I itlee.
d etimulaet Saving.
To bring Interrt       The @05 ha bee forced by monetary  Adjustdmt of Interest rate, In         Continuou
rats on loean to       situation to plae tight controle   linm  with moveesata In the
ariculture into line   on eredit and rle,e itere^Nt rates.  Inflation rats.
with msrke4 rates.     Short term rate  hav, bee raised
eharply *s noted under monstary
polities. hedlue nd leongr term
rate* have *Iso bee ralsed to be
cnistent with  edium a_nd lon_r
trm Inflation rates.
(C) lnuuran
Insuran_  *ervic       Th CCS ha enacted legislation        08 WIill tiple me  the d4control of  Continuou
should be decontrol led  that rmove monoply eontrol of      Insuranc  industry.
and lmproed to         the COS of Insurance service.
_  rt trading
actvitles nd
investomet.
To lmproe              Stpe are being takn to Improve       COS wIll I  plement actions to       Continuous
Institutlon 1          the efficelncy of CSBS nd the S0.  Improve offd elncy of CoS.
arransgement for
agricultural erdit
nd eavins I.e. to
intprme,iatein.



- 81 -                             Annex VIII
Page 15 of 16
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECOR ADJUSTHENT PROGRAM II
Matrix of PoUicY Issues. Strategies and Actions
1_ues end Strategies   Actlen Alredy Taken                   Key Actliw  to be Taken under the    Timing
Progra
Public Sector Management
(A) Policy Plannins
To tmproe  policy       The GO$ Is already reolvino          T A to the CSD wi*1 be centinud      Continuous
analysis and planing   support free GTZ and FAO to           treo  t_ehical assisnce
In aoriculture,        strengthn plicy planning In th       eecuted by Stastics Sweden with
ministry of Agriculture.  h          matching grant support from the
Central Statistics Departmnt (CSD)  Swedish  overwment.
In the Ministry of National
Planning Is recivino asiatanc
througb T/A provided In ASAP I to
improe agriculture and other
statistics.
(5) Publi Investment
rorm
To lmprove the         0G  has slonifleantly loproved the   The GOS bha agreed to continue the   Continuous (ue
contribution of the     planning of public Investment        annual updatirg of the PIP.          under Fiscal
public Investment       pror -   The public itvestment                                            Policies for
progrm to               progrm  (PIP) to updated regulorly.                                       second tranche
agricultural Growth.                                                                              condition).
(C) Cost Recovery
To lmprov, cost         The COS has agred In principle to   Continu   edherence to cost           Continuous
recove y and provide    cost recovery for public             recovery Improvement.
Mre efficleatly for    agricultural Investmnt projects.
recurrent coet.
Under a number of IDA-asisted        Revle as port of normal project      Continuous
agricultural projects, cost          supervision.
recovery system are under
implementation.
GNAT rental chrgo  have b_e          Continued adjustment of ONAT         Continuous
Inaea sd and ar appreaching          charge to ensure profitable
coem_rcial rates,                    oeratins.



- 82 -                             Annex VIII
Page 16 of 16
SOMLIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM lt
Matrix of Policy Issues. Strateties and Actions
lnuss mnJ Strategies   Actiotn Alredby Takei                  Ky Acetion to be Taken under the    Timing
Progreu
Land Tenure
(A) Irrigation Land
The GOS Is aling to    The G4S revised Its land tenure      Land tenure polihy ond               Second Tranche
amend land tenur         lae n 1976  nd introduced a Iand   administration In lerigated lands
polTcy and             tenure  dministration eysem           wlill be reviewed and an aceion pion
administration to make                                       for Improvement wIl be torm ul ated.
tbm more tranparent                                          Agrem_nt botwenn the GO$ *ad IDA
and equitable. The                                           on an action plop to improve land
Government'o first                                           tenure policy and administration
prlority Is to improv,                                       for Irrigated lads.
land tenure
arrangement. for
Irrigated lands. This
I where IDA and other
donor also have major
future investment
projoet which depend
In part on adequate
land tenure policy end
administration.



- 83 -
AMX IX
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRUM 1I
List of Eliiible Items Under Parts A and B
Part A
These are defined precisely in the Development Credit Agreement. The
eligible imports are subject to a negative list which includes:
(a) alcoholic beverages, jewelry, tobacco, uranium nuclear reactors;
tb) expenditures for: (i) furniture of all kinds; (ii) processed and
unprocessed food for human and animal consumption except wheat, wheat
flour, sugar, vegetable oil, and vice; (iii) textile items and
clothing ware, leather products, shoes, slippers and accessories,
excluding raw cotton and threads; (iv) electronic appliances such as
audio and video equipment, cameras and film; (v) vehicles below six
tons, but excluding buses; (vi) art works; Cvii) perfumes, cosmetics,
soap and detergents; and (viii) watches and clocks;
Cc) expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for private or public luxury consumption; and
(d) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national
or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance.
Part B
1. Ministry of Agriculture
Ca) Machinery and equipment for cultivation and earthmoving
(b) Plant protection and quarantine equipment and inputs
(c) Office Strengthening of Department of Planning and Training
(d) Research vehicles (4 WD)
(e) Spare parts for MOA vehicles
2. Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and RanRe
(a) Machinery and equipment for ruminant research studies
(b) Inputs for pilot poultry production project
(c) Equipment and spare part for feed mill
(d) Office equipment and supplies for Serum Institute and Vaccine
(e) Research vehicles 14WD)
(f) Teaching equipment and textbook.
3. Ministry of Fisheries
(a) Fishing gear for research and investigation
(b) Cold storage units (20 tons maximum)
(c) Mobile ice making machinery
(d) Refrigeration tracks for research and investigation (6 ton
capacity - four)
Ce) Research vehicles (4 WD)



