Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2030 SO
          (Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program)
                              between
                    SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2030 SO
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  June  26,  1989,  between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (the Borrower)  and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a  letter dated
from the Borrower describing a  program of actions, objectives and
policies  designed  to   achieve   structural  adjustment  of  the
Borrower's  economy  and  in  particular  its  agricultural sector
(hereinafter  called  the   Program),   declaring  the  Borrower's
commitment to the execution  of  the  Program, and requesting from
the Association, assistance  in  the  financing of urgently needed
imports and services required during such execution;
     (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied  itself  as to the feasi-
bility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, within the context  of  the  Program, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with  the  modifications  thereof  set  forth  below  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities
          that may be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Credit
          pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Develop-
          ment Credit Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing
          Date or  such  later  date  as  may  be  agreed for this
          purpose between the  Borrower  and  the Association, the
          Borrower shall prepare and  furnish to the Association a
          report,  of  such  scope  and  in  such  detail  as  the
          Association shall reasonably  request,  on the execution
          of the  Program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the
          Development Credit  Agreement,  the  performance  by the
          Borrower  and  the   Association   of  their  respective
          obligations under the  Development  Credit Agreement and
          the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
     (c)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special Account"  means  the  accounts  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b), (c) and (d) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "ADC"  means  the  Agricultural  Development Corporation
established pursuant to Law Number 60 of September 8, 1970;
     (c)  "ENC" means  the  Ente  Nazionale  Commercio established
pursuant to Law Number 33 of July 7, 1970;
     (d)  "MFR" means the Ministry of Finance and Revenue;
     (e)  "MNP" means the Ministry of National Planning;
     (f)  "SITC" means the  United  Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974  Revision  (SITC  Rev.  2) published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifica-
tion, Revised Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev. 2 (1981);
     (g)  "SOMPET" means the  Somali Petroleum Agency, established
pursuant to Law No. 29 of March 10, 1973; and
     (h)  "Sub-project" means any  sub-project  approved by Social
Action Committee to be financed  by  the Social Action Fund in the
context of Schedule 5 (D) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  3
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to fifty-
four  million  two   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 54,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B of
the Project, open and maintain  in  dollars a special account (the
Import Special Account) in a  commercial  bank on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part C of the
Project, open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special account (the
Social Action Special Account) in  the  Central Bank of Somalia on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into  and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part D of the
Project, open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special account (the
Technical Assistance  Special  Account)  in  a  commercial bank on
terms and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 8 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be January 31, 1992, or
such later date as  the  Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amount  shall  be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
Page  4
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  April  1 and October 1
commencing  October  1,  1999,  and  ending  April  1,  2029. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on April 1,
2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative and financial practices,  and shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement, as such  Schedule  may  be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
     Section 3.02. Without any  limitation or restriction upon any
of its  obligations  under  Section  3.01  of  this Agreement, the
Borrower  shall  cause  the  relevant  government  ministries  and
agencies referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement to provide to
the consultants to  be  employed  under  the Project the necessary
facilities and assistance to enable  such consultants to carry out
their duties.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Page  5
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  establish and maintain in
the Central Bank  of  Somalia,  under arrangements satisfactory to
the Association, a Project Account in which shall be deposited the
local currency proceeds generated from the sale of the proceeds of
the Credit. Funds deposited into  said  Account shall form part of
the Borrower's general budget.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall:
          (i)  establish and  maintain,  under arrangements satis-
               factory to the  Association,  a  Social Action Fund
               for  the  purpose   of  financing  sub-projects  to
               mitigate the social cost  of adjustment pursuant to
               Part  C  of  Schedule  2  to  this  Agreement.  The
               Borrower shall operate  the  Social  Action Fund in
               accordance  with  procedures  satisfactory  to  the
               Association, and in  accordance with the provisions
               of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
         (ii)  maintain the Social Action  Committee within MNP to
               administer the operation of the Social Action Fund.
               The head  of  the  Social  Action  Unit  shall be a
               member  of  the   Social  Action  Committee.  Other
               members of  the  Social  Action  Committee shall be
               appointed by the Minister of Finance and Revenue.
     (b)  The Social  Action  Committee  shall  be responsible for
reviewing Sub-projects recommended by  the  Social Action Unit and
to be financed under the Social Action Fund.
     Section 3.06. (a) The  Borrower  shall, not later than August
31, 1989, establish a Social Action Unit within MNP which shall be
responsible to the Social Action Committee.
     (b)  The  Social  Action  Unit  shall  formulate  and develop
policies which will, inter alia:  (i) identify and explore ways in
which equity issues can be  addressed  in the context of the macro
economic policy reform; (ii)  formulate  actions which can address
the problems of vulnerable  groups;  and  (iii) communicate to the
vulnerable groups the available social services and support.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out surveys referred to in Part C.2 of the Project
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  upon their  completion  submit  to  the  Association for
review the results of said surveys; and
     (c)  based on results of the surveys, formulate and implement
social  and  economic  policies  to  assist  people  identified as
requiring assistance.
     Section 3.08. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than November 30  of  every year submit to the
Association for comment its  proposals for updating the three-year
Public Investment Program; and
     (b)  thereafter update annually the Public Investment Program
taking into account the Association views.
     Section  3.09.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  not  later  than
March 30, 1990, submit  to  the  Association  for review a plan of
action for the future management  of  food aid; and (b) thereafter
implement such plan  of  action  taking  into account the Associa-
tion's views.
     Section 3.10. (a) The  Borrower  shall submit to the Associa-
tion for review semi-annual  reports  on the implementation of the
Program in respect of  the  involvement  of  the private sector in
Page  6
the  following  businesses  and   trades:  (i)  hides  and  skins;
(ii) frankincense and myrrh;  (iii) veterinary services, drugs and
equipment; (iv)  marine  transport;  (v)  commercial  banking; and
(vi) insurance.
     (b)  The first such report shall be submitted to the Associa-
tion not later than November 15, 1989.
     Section 3.11. (a)  The  Borrower  and  the Association shall,
from time to time, at the  request of either party, exchange views
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program and the
actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its  review and comment a report on
the progress achieved  in  carrying  out  of  the Program, in such
detail and  at  such  times  as  the  Association shall reasonably
request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this Section,  including  the  Special Accounts for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles consistently applied, by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning the said accounts  and the audit thereof
               and said records as the Association shall from time
               to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one  year after the comple-
               tion of the audit for  the fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made,
               all records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices, bills,
               receipts and other  documents)  evidencing such ex-
               penditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
Page  7
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Credit withdrawn in respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has opened  the Project Account pursuant to
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
     (b)  the Social Action Fund  referred  to  in Section 3.05 of
this Agreement has been established; and
     (c)  the Head of the  Social Action Unit, with qualifications
and  experience  satisfactory   to   the   Association,  has  been
appointed.
     Section 5.02. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01.  The  minister  of  the  Borrower  at  the time
responsible for finance  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Revenue
          Government of the Somali
            Democratic Republic
          Mogadishu, Somalia
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MINFIN                          3612 MINFIN
                Mogadishu                       Mogadishu
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  8
                          SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
                          By /s/ A. A. Addou
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Importation of Goods
     and Materials by
     Public & Private
     Sector Enterprises
     under Part A of the
     Project:
     (a)  goods and             34,425,000       100% of foreign
          materials under                        expenditures
          Part A (i) of
          the Project
     (b)  Diesel fuel           12,800,000       100% of foreign
          and lubricants                         expenditures
          to be imported
          by SOMPET under
          Part A (ii) of
          the Project
(2)  Consultants'                4,100,000       100%
     Services and
     Training under
     Part D of
     the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(3)  Goods, works and            2,100,000       100%
     services under
     Part C of
     the Project
(4)  Goods to be                   775,000       100% of foreign
     imported by                                 expenditures
     Ministries
     under Part B
Page  9
     of the Project
                                __________
     TOTAL                      54,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this  Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the  currency  other than that of the
Borrower for goods or services  supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above and
except to the extent as  the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made from Category (1) in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or subgroups:
     Group     Sub-group         Description of Items
      112          -             Alcoholic beverages
      121          -             Tobacco,  unmanufactured  tobacco
                                 refuse
      122          -             Tobacco, manufactured
     Group     Sub-group         Description of Items
      667          -             Pearls,   precious    and   semi-
                                 precious   stones,   unworked  or
                                 worked
      688          -             Uranium  depleted   in  U235  and
                                 thorium,   and    their   alloys,
                                 unwrought    or    wrought,   and
                                 articles therefor,  n.e.s.; waste
                                 and scrap of  uranium depleted in
                                 U235 and of thorium
      718       718.7            Nuclear   reactors,   and   parts
                                 thereof, n.e.s.
      897       897.3            Jewelry   of   gold,   silver  or
                                 platinum    group    metals   and
                                 goldsmiths'    or   silversmiths'
                                 wares (including set gems)
       -        971.0            Gold,   non-monetary   (excluding
                                 gold ores and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures for: (i) furniture  of all kinds; (ii) pro-
cessed and  unprocessed  food  for  human  and  animal consumption
except  wheat,  wheat  flour,  sugar,  vegetable  oil,  and  rice;
(iii) textile items and  clothing  wares, leather products, shoes,
slippers  and  accessories,  excluding  raw  cotton  and  threads;
(iv) electronic  appliances  such  as  audio  and video equipment,
cameras and  film;  (v)  vehicles  below  six  tons, but excluding
buses;  (vi)  art  works;  (vii)  perfumes,  cosmetics,  soap  and
detergents; and (viii) watches and clocks.
     (c)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for private or public luxury consumption; and
     (d)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
Page  10
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than  the  Association  shall  have  financed  or  agreed to
finance.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above and
except to the extent as  the Association shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made from Category (3) in respect of payments
for expenditures for any Sub-project unless such Sub-project shall
have been prepared in  accordance  with  the procedures and on the
terms and conditions set  forth  or  referred  to in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement and obtained prior approval of the Association.
6.   No withdrawal shall be  made  and no special commitment shall
be entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others after the
aggregate  of  the  proceeds  under  Category  (1)  of  the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit  Account  and  the  total amount of such
commitments  under  the  same  Category  shall  have  reached  the
equivalent of  SDR  25,500,000  unless  the  Association  shall be
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.11
of the Credit Agreement:  (a)  with  the  progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out the Program; and (b) that the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this  Agreement have been taken and are
satisfactory to the Association.
7.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 6
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken  actions  satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower, cancel
the unwithdrawn amount of the  Credit allocated to Category (1) in
the table set forth in  paragraph  1  of this Schedule or any part
thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to: (i) support the macro-
economic reforms currently being  undertaken by the Borrower; (ii)
assist the Borrower to  develop  and  enlarge the participation of
the private sector in the economy including an improved supply and
distribution of agricultural inputs; and (iii) strengthen institu-
tions responsible for carrying out the economic and policy reforms
in the agricultural sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Imports for the Private and Public Sector Enterprises
     Provision of foreign  exchange  for  the:  (i) importation of
goods and  materials;  and  (ii)  importation  of  diesel fuel and
lubricants by SOMPET.
Part B:   Imports for the Borrower
     Provision of foreign exchange for:
     1.   The following imports  for  the Ministry of Agriculture:
          (i)  machinery  and  equipment;  (ii)  plant  protection
          supplies and equipment  for  research, demonstration and
          extension  purposes;  (iii)  laboratory  equipment;  and
          (iv) transportation equipment.
     2.   The following  imports  for  the  Ministry of Livestock,
          Forestry and  Range:  (i)  machinery  and  equipment for
          ruminant research  studies;  (ii)  equipment for poultry
          production; (iii)  milling  equipment  and  spare parts;
          (iv)  office  equipment  and   supplies  for  the  Serum
          Institute;    (v)    transportation    equipment;    and
Page  11
          (vi) teaching equipment and  textbooks for the School of
          Animal Science.
     3.   Importation  for  the  Ministry  of  Fisheries,  of  the
          following items for research and demonstration purposes:
          (i) fishing gear; (ii)  cold storage units; (iii) mobile
          ice-making  machines;   (iv)  refrigeration  containers;
          (v) trailers; and  (vi)  trucks  for fish collection and
          distribution.
Part C:   Mitigation of the Social Cost of Adjustment
1.   Establishment  of  institutional  arrangements  for:  (i) the
formulation of social action  programs  to address the problems of
groups made vulnerable  by  the  adjustment  process;  and (ii) to
evaluate benefits and costs of action programs.
2.   Carrying out surveys designed to monitor living conditions in
house-holds made vulnerable by the adjustment process.
3.   Establishment of  a  Social  Action  Fund  to  finance action
programs to assist vulnerable groups.
Part D:   Technical Assistance
     Provision of technical assistance:
     1.   To MNP to assist  in:  (a) carrying out household budget
          surveys; (b) preparation and  analysis of trade data and
          national  accounts;  (c)   collection,  development  and
          analysis of other  statistics; (d) conducting in-service
          training;  (e)   design   of  an  agricultural/livestock
          census; and (f) provision of local and overseas training
          for staff of the Ministry.
     2.   To  MFR  for:  (a)  maintaining  the  procurement  unit;
          (b) conducting  in-service  training  for  staff  of the
          Ministry; (c)  assisting  the  Ministry  with its opera-
          tions, including  carrying  out  an  import verification
          program; and (d)  carrying  out  a  review of tariffs on
          traded goods.
     3.   To the Ministry  of  Agriculture  for:  (a) preparing an
          action plan on  land  tenure  policy and administration;
          and (b) machine rehabilitation.
                             *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1991.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  through international competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures  consistent  with those set forth in
Sections I and II  of  the  "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by  the Bank in May 1985 (herein-
after called the Guidelines),  subject  to the following modifica-
tions:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
          following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
Page  12
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a notice in the  United Nations publication, Devel-
               opment Forum Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in  the Guidelines that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
               "As a  further  alternative,  bidding documents may
          require the bidder to  state  the  bid price in a single
          currency  widely   used   in   international  trade  and
          specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items to be procured by  the Private Sector and Public Sector
Enterprises under Part  A  of  the  Project  estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than  $400,000  may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a  list  of  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under the
Guidelines.
2.   Items to be procured by  the  ministries  under Part B of the
Project  estimated  to  cost  not  more  than  the  equivalent  of
$200,000, may be procured  under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures  on  the  basis  of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the  Guidelines  and  in accordance with procedures
set forth in Sections I and  II of the Guidelines (excluding para-
graphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
3.   Contracts for goods to be  procured by the Private Sector and
Public Sector Enterprises under Part A of the Project estimated to
cost the equivalent of less  than  $200,000 each, shall be awarded
on the basis of  established  commercial practices of the Borrower
satisfactory to the Association for the purchase of such goods.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions  of  Parts  B.1 and B.2 above,
items under Part A  of  the  Project  may be procured under direct
contracting methods in accordance with Paragraph 3.5 of the Guide-
lines in the following circumstances:
          (i)  if the importer  is  the supplier's authorized dis-
               tributor or dealer; or
         (ii)  if  the  importer  is  precluded  from  buying from
               another supplier; or
        (iii)  if  the  importer   is   purchasing  a  brand  name
               commodity from  a  supplier  who  is  the exclusive
               distributor of that commodity.
5.   Goods and works for Part  C  of the Project shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 of this Agreement.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Page  13
     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to contracts  for the importation of diesel
fuel and lubricants under Part A (ii) and for contracts under Part
B of the Project, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as  part  of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by The World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Conditions of Second Tranche Release
     List of actions to be  taken  by  the Borrower referred to in
paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     The Borrower shall have:
1.   furnished to the Association the three year Public Investment
Program for 1990-1992, satisfactory to the Association;
2.   furnished to the  Association  proposals, satisfactory to the
Association, for its Public Expenditure  Program to be included in
the Borrower's 1990 budget;
3.   based on  a  revised  tariff  schedule  for  the main imports
agreed with the Association, established and implemented an import
verification system under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association;
4.   furnished to the Association  a  plan of action, satisfactory
to the Association, for institutional  development of ADC and ENC;
and
5.   furnished to the Association  a  plan of action, satisfactory
to the Association, for improving  land tenure policy and adminis-
tration of irrigated land.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  14
                      Implementation Program
     Implementation of the Project  components will be carried out
as follows:
A.   Part A of the Project
     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall, in carrying out Part A  of the Project, adopt the following
procedures:
1.   Foreign Exchange Allocation System
     Public and  private  sector  importers  (except SOMPET) shall
obtain foreign currencies from  the  Central Bank of Somalia under
the following system:
          (i)  A  Foreign  Exchange  Committee  (FEC)  established
               within the Central  Bank  of Somalia shall allocate
               foreign exchange to  importers.  The FEC shall have
               the  following  members:  representatives  from the
               Central Bank of  Somalia,  the  Ministry of Finance
               and Revenue,  the  Ministry  of  Commerce,  and the
               Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia.
         (ii)  Not later than the first working day of each month,
               the FEC shall announce to the public, through radio
               and  newspaper,  the  amount  of  foreign  exchange
               available for  imports  for  that  month, and shall
               invite importers to apply for foreign exchange.
        (iii)  The  FEC  shall  accept  applications  for  foreign
               exchange submitted before the  fifth working day of
               the month. Each applicant shall be required to:
               (a)  submit his application in an approved form;
               (b)  deposit in Somali  shillings the equivalent of
                    50% of the amount  of foreign exchange applied
                    for, calculated at  the official exchange rate
                    on that day; and
               (c)  pay a non-refundable  levy in Somali shillings
                    equal to 10% of the amount of foreign exchange
                    applied  for,   calculated   at  the  official
                    exchange rate on that day.
         (iv)  The importers shall specify the general grouping of
               goods to be imported  according to a classification
               determined by the  Ministry  of Commerce in consul-
               tation with the Association.
          (v)  The monthly maximum amount to  be applied for by an
               individual  importer  shall  be  the  equivalent of
               $400,000 and the minimum shall be the equivalent of
               $5,000.
         (vi)  The FEC shall allocate to every applicant the exact
               amount applied for if total  demand equals to or is
               less than the available  supply of foreign exchange
               for  that  month.  If,  however,  the  total amount
               applied for exceeds the  supply thereof, all appli-
               cants will  receive  a  prorated  amount of foreign
               exchange.
        (vii)  Not later than the tenth working day of each month,
               the FEC  shall  notify  all  the  applicants of the
               results of the allocation and all names and amounts
               allocated thereto shall be  announced to the public
               through the radio and newspapers.
Page  15
       (viii)  Not later than  the  15th  day  of  the month, each
               applicant shall pay to  the Central Bank of Somalia
               in Somali Shilling  the  50%  balance  of the total
               amount of foreign  exchange allocated calculated at
               the official exchange rate of that day.
         (ix)  All applications may thereafter be submitted to the
               Procurement Unit which  will  review them to assess
               eligibility against the following criteria:
               (a)  evidence of the  payment  of the total deposit
                    and the 10% levy in Somali Shillings:
               (b)  country of origin of the goods to be imported;
               (c)  eligibility  of  the   goods  to  be  imported
                    according to the  negative  list in Schedule I
                    to this Agreement; and
               (d)  the unit price of the goods to be imported.
          (x)  Successful applicants  shall  be  required  to open
               letters of Credit  within  60  calendar days of the
               announcement of  the  allocation,  using  the local
               commercial banking system for that purpose.
2.   Importation of diesel  fuel  and  lubricants  by SOMPET under
Part A (ii) of the Project shall be based on the official exchange
rate set by the Central Bank of  Somalia at the time the Letter of
Credit is opened.
B.   Part B of the Project - Imports by the Borrower
     All imports by the Ministries of the Borrower under Part B of
the Project  shall  be  processed  at  the  official exchange rate
prevailing at the time of opening the Letter of Credit.
C.   Functions of the Procurement Unit
     Notwithstanding the  above,  all  imports  under  the Project
shall be reviewed with the  assistances of the Procurement Unit in
accordance with the guidelines acceptable to the Association.
D.   Part C of the Project
1.   Except as the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, proposals
for Sub-projects  to  be  financed  under  the  Social Action Fund
established pursuant to Section  3.05  of  this Agreement shall be
submitted to  the  Association  for  approval  before financing is
authorized.
2.   Except as the Association  shall  otherwise agree, the Social
Action Fund shall be used to finance the following activities:
     (a)  the purchase of goods and services required to implement
Sub-projects;
     (b)  consultant services to  assist  the  Social Action Unit;
and
     (c)  payments to sub-contractors  selected  to implement Sub-
projects.
3.   The Borrower shall  cause  MNP  to  evaluate the economic and
social benefits  and  costs  of  the  social  action program (Sub-
projects) selected by the Social Action Unit. MNP shall follow the
following criteria in evaluating Sub-projects:
     The Sub-projects must:
     (a)  be directed at the poor;
     (b)  be simple to implement;
Page  16
     (c)  be completed over a short time span;
     (d)  not be inconsistent with longer-term programs; and
     (e)  not divert resources from current esentials activities.
4.   The Borrower shall  cause  MNP  to:  (a)  carry out intensive
analysis of household survey  data;  and  (b) supervise the imple-
mentation of a permanent household survey.
5.   Expenditures for Sub-projects  under  Part  C  of the Project
shall be based on the  official  exchange  rate set by the Central
Bank of Somalia at the time the Letter of Credit is opened.
6.   Goods and  works  for  Sub-projects  shall be procured on the
basis  of  price  quotations  from  at  least  three  suppliers in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                    The Import Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(4) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $20,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  by the
Borrower for a deposit or  deposits  which add up to the aggregate
amount of the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit into the Special  Account  such  amount  or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
Page  17
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposits  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made directly by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be equal to  the  equivalent of the amount of
               the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be  made  only  after  and  to  the  extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in  the  Special  Account  as  of the date of
such notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                 The Social Action Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $200,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
Page  18
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  by the
Borrower for a deposit or  deposits  which add up to the aggregate
amount of the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit into the Special  Account  such  amount  or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further deposits  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made directly by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn  amount  of  the Credit allo-
               cated to the eligible  Categories, minus the amount
               of any outstanding  special commitment entered into
               by the Association pursuant  to Section 5.02 of the
               General Conditions  with  respect  to  the Project,
               shall be  equal  to  the  equivalent  of  twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Categories shall follow  such  procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice  to  the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be  made  only  after  and  to  the  extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in  the  Special  Account  as  of the date of
such notice  will  be  utilized  in  making  payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
Page  19
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Credit Account.
                            SCHEDULE 8
             The Technical Assistance Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  Category  (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  On  the  basis  of  such  request  or  requests,  by the
Borrower for a deposit or  deposits  which add up to the aggregate
amount of the  Authorized  Allocation,  the  Association shall, on
behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the  Credit Account and
deposit into the Special  Account  such  amount  or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Category, and in the respective  equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by  the  evidence  supporting  the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment  was made for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Page  20
Schedule, no further deposits  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made directly by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the provisions of paragraph  (a) of Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Category,  minus  the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered  into  by   the   Association  pursuant  to
               Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
               to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
               twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible Category shall follow  such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to  the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after  and  to  the extent that the Association
shall have  been  satisfied  that  all  such  amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from  the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if  the  Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal  to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof  not  so  eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into  the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Credit Account.
