Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIALW USE ONLY
Report No. 17168
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Loan 3201-CO)
December 23, 1997
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit - Colombian Peso (P)
December 15, 1990:   US$1 - P/470
March 30, 1997:   US$1 -P/1042
GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAIP              Centro de Atenci6n Integral al Preescolar(Pre-School Child Care
Centers)
DANE              Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (National
Department of Statistics)
DHS               Encuesta de Demografia y Salud (Demographic and Health Survey)
DNP               Departamento Nacional de Planeacion (National Planning
Department)
HBI               Hogares de Bienestar Infantil (Child Care Homes Program)
ICBF              Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (Colombian Institute for
Family Welfare)
ICR       -       Implementation Completion Report
IFI               International Financial Institutions
INURBE            Instituto Nacional de Vivienda de Interes Social y Reforma Urbana
MC                Madres Comunitarias (Community Mothers)
NGO               Non-Governmental Organization
OEI               Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science &
Culture
PROFAMILIA        Asociaci6n Pro-Bienestar de la Familia Colombiana (Association for
Colombian Family Welfare)
SAR               Staff Appraisal Report
SENA              Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Training Institute)
SFP               Continuous Training System
SIG               Sistema Integral de Informaci6n Gerencial (Integrated Management
Information System)      .
Vice President:     Shavid Javed Burki, LCR
CMU Director:       Andres Solimano, LCC4C
Sector Leader:-     Constance A. Corbett, LCC4C/HD
-  SMU Director:    Julian Schweitzer, LCSHD
Task Manager:-.     Martha Laverde, LC4CO -



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATIONSUMMARY ...........................................................i
PARTII: PROJECTIMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT .                                            ....................................1
A. Project Objectives .........................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................         3
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation .......................                 ..................   12
D. Project Sustainability .........................................................                     13
E. Bank Performance .........................................................                           14
F. Borrower Performance .........................................................                       14
G. Assessment of Project Outcomes .........................................................             15
H. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                        15
PART II: STATISTICAL  TABLES .............................                     ..............................   17
APPENDIXES:
A. Final Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire .......................................................              29
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR  .........................................................               39
C. Comments from  the Government on the ICR  ...................................................              47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Loan 3201-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first Community Child
Care and Nutrition Project in Colombia (estimated total project cost US$40.2 million), for
which Loan 3201-CO in the amount of US$24 million equivalent was approved by the
Bank on August 1, 1990. The Loan Agreement was made effective on December 5, 1990.
The Project was carried out by the Colombian Family Welfare Institute [Instituto
Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF)], which also provided counterpart funds for its
financing.
The closing date was March 31, 1997, at which time 92-.6 percent of the total credit
amount (US$22.2 million) had been disbursed. The original closing date for the Project
was June 30, 1996, but was extended twice, to October 31, 1996 and March 31, 1997,
respectively. These extensions were granted based on the decision to complete ICBF's First
Impact Evaluation Survey of the Child Care Homes Program [Hogares de Bienestar Infantil
(HBI)] and to define the internal mechanisms for analysis of the evaluation's results. The
last disbursement took place on January 3, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Martha Laverde (Task Manager), Carmen Elisa Fl6rez,
Patricia Avila and Gloria Maria Borrero (local consultants) of the Colombian Resident
Mission, and edited by William Mayville. It was reviewed by Jacques van der Gaag,
Eleanor Schreiber, Miriam Schneidman, Sandra Rosenhouse (Task Managers), and
Constance Corbett, Sector Leader.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission, on
May 8, 1997. The ICR is based on discussions with Bank staff involved in the Project,
supervision reports, and related documentation in the Project Files. The Borrower and
executing agency contributed to its preparation by participating in informational and
analytical meetings with the consulting group in charge of the ICR, and by preparing its
own evaluation (Annex B).






COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Loan 3201-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Community Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201-CO) is the first
project in community child care that the Bank has supported in Colombia. Prior to this
Project, the Bank helped finance seven projects in the social sectors: one each in health and
nutrition for a total of US$40.3 million, and five in education for a total of US$144 million.
2.    Concurrent with the Community Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201-CO),
the Bank financed one project in basic health care and one in basic education.
Project Objectives
3.    The Community Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201-CO) was a key
feature of the national plan for the reduction of poverty. It sought to strengthen the HBI
(Child Care Home) Program, a national effort to improve the quality of child care for
children under the age of seven, managed by the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
Familiar (ICBF). Although under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health, the ICBF has
administrative and financial autonomy, and supports an array of activities, of which the HBI
Program forms a large part (46 percent of the total ICBF budget). The Community Child
Care and Nutrition Project's overall goal was to provide support to an HBI expansion
program over five years, while seeking to meet three objectives: (a) introduce and develop
policies aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness of ICBF operations; (b) support the
institutional development of ICBF, particularly, to strengthen its technical support,
planning, and monitoring capabilities vis-a-vis the HBIs; and (c) evaluate, improve and
maintain at an appropriate level the quality of HBI services during their expansion.
4.    The goals of providing assistance to ICBF in the areas of management and
coordination for both HBI Program expansion and the Project were incorporated into three
project components: (a) policy development; (b) institutional development; and (c) service
support.
Implementation: Experience and Results
5.    The Project was quite modest in terms of the total investment in the HBI Program,
representing about 6 percent. It funded most of the policy and institutional components, but
only 5 percent of the service-support component. Nonetheless, the amount allocated to the
latter made up 75 percent of the Project's total costs.



- ii -
6.    Under the HBI Program, coverage increased from 500,000 children in 1989 to
823,000 in 1996, but fell short of its goal of one million children over that period. It did
succeed in reaching the targeted areas and social sectors: 91 percent of the total HBI
beneficiary families in 1996 were in the lower-low/low strata and dispersed rural areas; and
87.3 percent of them earned an income of one minimum salary or less. The quality of the
HBI services during the Project fell short of desired levels; nonetheless, Project components
proved flexible enough to be adapted to changing needs. For example, the Government's
decentralization initiative was supported under the institutional development component, as
well as the formation of cooperatives by parents' associations under the service-support
component. The Project did not establish a baseline at the outset, nor did it define quality
parameters with which to measure its results. ICBFs relations with the various participating
public institutions were weak with central-level institutions but effective in establishing
alliances with municipalities.
7.   In retrospect, there was little institutionalization of the original Project aims or
values. On the other hand, at the local level many HBIs are still functioning. The model of
HBIs was based on the successful experience of UNICEF using this approach. After the
Project was scaled down, its priority seemed to lessen for ICBF, which exacerbated the
difficulty of achieving expected outcomes, especially given the central link of Community
Mothers to the Project's overall success in reaching the targeted beneficiaries. This may
reflect to an underlying difference between the central role played by ICBF, which is a
semi-autonomous government agency, and the Project objective of building linkages into
local communities at the family level.
Policy Development Component
8.   Subcomponent: Establishingfinancial arrangements for Pre-school Child Care
Centers [Centro de Atencion Integral al Preescolar (CAIP)i. ICBF met the goal of
reducing its contribution to the CAIP Program by 30 percent, as planned. Alternate
financing sources were identified, and a percentage of the cost was transferred to parents,
municipalities, and private companies.
9.    Subcomponent: Improving the efficiency ofproduction and distribution of
Bienestarina. Based on studies made, the production and distribution of Bienestarina (a
nutritional supplement) was directly retained by ICBF, with efficiency improvement
through plant modernization, purchase of raw materials through the farminig exchange
(which resulted in a significant price reduction, by substituting alternate solutions of raw
materials for product diversification) and by dividing the country into regions for the
distribution. The three production plants were kept in operation and the micronutrient
composition of Bienestarina was also improved.
Management Development Component
10.   Subcomponent: A study on ICBF structure and staff  The Project supported two
studies on ICBF restructuring in 1993 and in 1995, which tailored the ICBF organizational
structure to new Constitutional requirements. Concurrently, control of ICBF Programs by



- 111 -
civil society occurred through citizen surveillance groups, along with co-management with
the municipalities of some of its programs. During the life of the Project, activities were
initiated to decentralize selected functions as a strategy to strengthen regional centers.
11.   Subcomponent: Establishing an Integrated Management Information System
[Sistema Computarizado Integral de Informaci6n Gerencial (SIG)] for the planning,
programming, budgeting and monitoring of ICBF Programs. Despite significant delays,
the SIG was developed as a management tool for planning, programming and budgeting of
ICBF Programs. For the HBI Program, the SIG will facilitate the monitoring of coverage
and internal efficiency of the Program.
12.   Subcomponent: Introduction of Monitoring and Impact Evaluation Systems
Nationwide. After a four-year delay, the First Impact Evaluation Survey was designed and
conducted in the first quarter of 1996, to determine the direct effects on those children
covered by the Program. The survey suffered some design limitations: since there was no
control group, the survey comprises baseline information and is not a true impact
evaluation, as intended. (The ICR refers to the impact evaluation as the First Impact
Evaluation Survey.) Nevertheless, this survey provides a useful conceptual model and
sampling base for the implementation of a continuous impact evaluation system of the HBI
Program nationwide. It should facilitate future monitoring and interventions in the
Program.
13.   With the First Evaluation Survey, the lack of a systematic monitoring design for the
life of the Project became evident. The responsibilities for service quality follow-up at
national, regional and local levels needed to be clearly defined, as the First Evaluation
Survey shows. However, with the consolidation of the SIG and the evaluation survey, the
ICBF will have the required tools to perform systematic, qualitative supervision, such as
training and technical assistance, as needed.
Service Support Component
14.   Subcomponent: Provision of regular trainingfor community mothers and other
community HBIparticipants in the management offood, nutrition, health registers, child
growth and household management. The Project funded the execution of decentralized
training plans, including procurement of teaching materials. The training and materials
helped mothers to manage households and carry out activities to develop children's psycho-
social learning process. However, the results of the First Evaluation Survey showed that the
training was inadequate. Though positive results were reported for home management, the
survey revealed that the training had a very limited effect on improving children's welfare
in terms of meeting nutritional, health, and psycho-social development needs.
15.   Concurrent with this training process, ICBF developed a campaign to eradicate
illiteracy among Community Mothers (MCs) and to provide them with basic education,
with the intention being that a high percentage of them would finish primary or lower
secondary school. However, less than half of the MCs in urban areas complete the 9th
grade, which is ICBF's minimum schooling requirement; in rural areas, the percentage of



- iv -
those meeting the minimum requirement (third grade of primary school) is somewhat
higher. It appears that the HBO Program's quality standards established for the provision
of services may have been unrealistic, and that other service support models might have
been more useful.
16.   Leadership training was also provided for the establishment of HBI-related
microbusinesses in order to improve family income. This training, along with household
improvement loans, the increase of allowance, and the organization of MCs into unions and
community groups, boosted MCs into positions as community leaders. This may be
considered as one of the most significant by-products of the Program.
17.   Training of Other Actors: Training processes did not emphasize the role of
Community Mothers over that of the parents themselves; the CMs would rather act on
behalf of the parents by providing child care and nutritional needs. The Project did support
a study to turn the Parents Associations into cooperatives, as part of the training activities in
the administration of HBIs.
18. Training of ICBF Staff The Project funded training of ICBF personnel at all levels
in a number of areas: ICBF restructuring, decentralization and community participation
strategies to attain co-management with municipalities, human rights awareness, utilization
of impact evaluation, and internal control tools in computer operations and the SIG.
Nevertheless, the Program did not develop a permanent supervision system to allow for
trainee and training follow-up and assistance, or the means to detect problems and take
corrective actions in a timely manner.
19.   Subcomponent: Loans to Community Mothers for Household Improvement. Of the
50,000 loans planned, 60,711 MCs have benefited from home-upgrading loans to date.
However, 28 percent of the loans covered other needs related to housing outside the Project
guidelines, such as payment of arrears or land purchases. This suggests the need for a more
strict control in the use of home improvement loans. Currently, the household improvement
program for MCs has funds of nearly US$10 million.
20.   Even though the MCs who received loans now enjoy better housing conditions, the
HBIs' physical conditions generally remain poor. The amounts lent may not have been
sufficient to achieve the home improvement necessary to provide adequate conditions for
child care. The fact that 51 percent of the HBIs have less than one square meter per child
may indicate that the Program's regulations should tailor the guideline of 15 children per
MC to reflect the actual capacity of each HBI.
21.   Technical Assistance to ICBFfor Program and Project Management and
Coordination. To avoid creating a parallel structure, the Project was supported by a
Management Unit responsible for supporting ICBF in administrative matters. The technical
aspects of the Project were entrusted to the corresponding sections of ICBF. Essential
technical assistance in this area was provided, generally toward the end of the project, in
such areas as definition and development of quality standards for the Program, analysis of



v 
educational strategies and the planning of training, an integrated management information
system (SIG), and impact evaluation.
22.   Bank Performance. Bank performance revealed some deficiencies in monitoring
and evaluation during the initial years of the Project life, primarily delays in
implementation of the information and evaluation components. Dated loan covenants for
SIG and evaluation in design were not enforced strictly and broad sanctions provided in the
Loan Agreement for non-compliance with objectives were not applied, except for an
interruption of disbursements in 1992. In the initial years of the Project, security issues
complicated supervision efforts. Also, the somewhat volatile political environment,
including vacillating government commitment, and scaling-down of the project, also
contributed to delays and problems with monitoring and evaluation.
23.   Borrower Performance. Frequent turnover among ICBF staff and in the Project
Management Unit and the low priority given by ICBF to the Project, especially to
monitoring and evaluation efforts, contributed to delays. Successive ICBF directors
generally agreed, for example, to mount an impact evaluation, but never followed through
to complete its design. Toward the end of the Project, ICBF interest in and commitment to
the Project began to increase, and planned activities were completed.
24.   Evaluation of Project Results. The First Impact Evaluation Survey showed
disappointing results for the Program's impact on children's welfare in terms of their
nutritional and health status and psycho-social development. Results are explained by the
inadequate physical conditions and overcrowding in HBIs and by inadequate nourishment
provided to the children. Lack of appropriate training on a regular basis and supervision
within the Program did not permit these problems to be resolved. These results suggest that
the HBI Program model - - which at the time, was a tested prototype - - should be
reevaluated in terms of the criteria for selecting MCs, number of children per HBI,
appropriate housing loan amounts, and the suitability of lower-income homes as day-care
sites. Moreover, the model may be better suited to deployment by NGOs in local
communities (as originally conceived) than to a large-scale program run by a central agency
of the Government, with weak institutional linkages both centrally and in local jurisdiction.
Lessons Learned
* Understanding both the political and institutional climate has important implications
for the immediate impact of the project and sustainable outcomes. Projects such as this
one that involve different participating institutions to support the achievement of Project
objectives should establish agreements with authorities or institutions, and provision
should be made for periodic review/revision /ratification of institutional arrangements or
agreements throughout implementation. This is especially germane in the case of first-
time projects in sectors with weak or nonexistent institutional linkages at project
inception.



-vi-
* The scale and location ofprojects has a direct bearing on whether government agencies
or NGOs are better positioned to achieve optimal project results. Centralized
procedures, characteristic of the older operations supported by the Bank and the
Colombian Government, were poorly suited to a highly decentralized and participatory
service delivery model such as the HBIs. In this case, the involvement of NGOs might
have led to a greater project impact.
* Performance indicators, evenfor already-piloted models, such as the UNICEF-HBI
model, need to be developed independent ofprevious experience and adapted to
institutional arrangements under specific country and project conditions. Projects need
adequate baseline data on which to compare progress. Design should reflect and
already incorporate these data including plans for evaluation follow-up. In addition,
project design should include provision for periodic evaluation of standards and testing
of assumptions, and for revision of guidelines in response to impact and experience.
More importantly, when using a "model" approach, sustainability on the scale, scope,
and other key factors need to be evaluated to guide a tailoring to the country,
institutional, and project-specific environment.
* New information systems may prove difficult to design and implement, which needs to
be reflected in implementation timing milestones. The delays in implementing ICBF's
information systems prevented it from reaching the scale intended. The system was
difficult to design, and, above all, to implement, as in the case of SIG and the impact
evaluation, where insufficient attention was given to practicability and unrealistic
compliance times were specified.



COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Loan 3201-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Objectives
Background
1.    The Community Child Care and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201-CO) was a key part of
the national plan for poverty reduction, seeking primarily to strengthen child care provided in
Child Care Homes [Hogares de Bienestar Infantil (HBIs)]. The HBI Program is conducted at
the national level by the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar (ICBF). ICBF, an
institution attached to the Health Ministry, has both financial and administrative autonomy
and is funded mainly by a three-percent tax payroll levied on both public and private
institutions, a third of which is assigned to finance the HBIs. (The HBI Program is a
community-managed, home-based child-care program aimed at promoting development of
poor children under seven years of age. The model was designed to provide up to 15 children
per home with food, social stimulation and health services based on need. Each HBI is run in
the home of a Community Mother (CM) selected by parents.
2.    The HBI Program is the most important ICBF Program and was initiated in 1987. In
the first year of the Program, nearly 123,700 children were served in 8,247 homes. By the
end of 1992, 858,000 children were served in 57,000 child care homes. Expansion of
coverage stabilized in 1993, and by year-end 1995, 890,295 children were being served in
59,353 homes. Currently, the Program is being executed in about 1,025 Colombian
municipalities, with the participation of 77,875 MCs.
3.    The Pre-School Child Care Centers [Centro de Atencion Integral al Preescolar
(CAIP)] Program is currently the second most important ICBF Program. The CAIP Program
is center-based and operated by professionals. It provides food, health services and pre-
school education to children two months to seven years of age who are at risk of
abandonment, malnutrition or abuse, or from lower-income families with working parents.
In contrast to the HBIs, coverage under the CAIP Program declined from 236,500 children
under age seven in 1989 to 177,000 in 1993.
4.    The Colombian Government investment plans for the HBIs for the 1989-94 period
sought to improve the efficiency and equity in the allocation and use of ICBF funds through
better targeting and strengthening the quality and efficiency of services (SAR, Annex 7). To
improve equity the 1990-95 plans for the HBI Program sought to broaden the coverage of



-2-
lower-income children. This expansion was to be financed in part by a reduction in the ICBF
subsidies to the CAIPs (SAR, par. 1.17). CAIPs, though high in quality, were considered
comparatively expensive and inaccessible for a majority of lower-income families, and were
funded almost entirely by ICBF.
5.    To improve efficiency, the production of the national nutritional supplement
Bienestarina was to be made more cost-effective by seeking alternatives for its production
and distribution by ICBF or others. Under ICBF's overall management, the supply of
Bienestarina was unreliable and costly, due to delays in input materials and the lack of
adequate funding, as well as ICBF's inexperience. By increasing the access of HBI users to
effective health care and consolidating children's nutritional improvement, the HBI Program
sought to improve both equity and efficiency.
6.    Of the three types of service provided through the HBIs, the nutrition component was
the most developed. Health monitoring and early childhood development received less
emphasis and resources and so lagged behind (SAR, pars. 1.31 and 1.32). The support
provided through ICBF and the local organizations for the establishment and operation of the
HBIs was effective; however, reinforcement was needed to achieve a regular training system
for ICBF staff and the community participants, especially the MCs.
Project Objectives
7.    The main objectives of the Project were to support ICBF in the implementation of the
HBI Program, and in particular to: (a) introduce and develop policies to improve cost-
effectiveness of ICBF operations; (b) support the development of ICBF's institutional
capacity to manage the HBI Program by strengthening its technical support, planning and
monitoring capabilities; and (c) evaluate, improve and maintain, at an appropriate level, the
quality of HBI services (SAR, par. 2.2). Initially the Government asked the Bank to help
finance a significant share of HBI service delivery. Following the Government's decision to
allocate the one percent share of payroll to the HBI Program, the smaller, more limited
Project evolved (SAR, par. 1.0).
8.    The Project was organized into three components:
* Policy development: Studies and technical assistance designed to enhance
effectiveness of ICBF resources use by:
0 assessing and establishing revised alternatives for the funding of CAIPs and
reducing the related ICBF budget contribution; and
0 improving the efficiency of production and marketing of Bienestarina.
* Institutional development: Strengthening ICBF management capacity by:
0 conducting a study of ICBF organizational and staffing needs;



-3 -
O  establishing a computerized, integrated management information system
(SIG) to support ICBF planning, programming, budgeting and monitoring of
programs and activities; and
0  introducing and implementing a monitoring and impact-evaluation system for
the HBI Program on a national scale.
Service support: Improvement of the nutritional, health and pre-school
development aspects of the HBI Program, through:
0 in-service training for MCs and other HBI community participants for
guidance in food management, nutrition, health registers, child development
and home management; and
0 providing MCs with access to home improvement credits.
9.    The Project provided a relatively modest contribution to the total ICBF investment in
the HBI Program. According to the SAR, the total estimated national investment of the
Program for the 1990-95 period was US$674.6 million, of which US$40.2 million (six
percent) represented the Project (Table 8A). However, the Project's share of total ICBF
Program cost varied greatly by component and subcomponent. The Policy Development
component was financed in its entirety (100 percent) by the Project, as was nearly 76 percent
of the Institutional Development component.
10.   On the other hand, the Service Support component represented 75 percent of the total
Project costs, but accounted for only 4.5 percent of service support in the overall Program
(Table 8A). Tables 8B and 8C show the planned and actual distribution of Project
expenditures. During implementation, realignment of priorities led to reallocation of
resources from the training category to technical assistance. Actual disbursement for training
represented 83.3 percent of the original allocation, while disbursements for technical
assistance were 120 percent of the original plan (Table 8B). The loan amount of US$24
million represented 60 percent of total Project costs and 48 percent of local costs (Table 8C).
11.   The Project provided support for improvement of ICBF's capacity in the areas of:
(a) long-term planning and programming to respond to feedback from groups as well as from
quality control and financial control systems; and (b) regular monitoring and a evaluation of
the HBI Program (SAR, par. 1.29).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   The Project partially met its objective of supporting coverage expansion within the
HBI Program. Of an enrollment goal of one million children by the end of 1994, to be
maintained until Project completion (Table 5), enrollment reached 799,000 children in 1994
(HBI Census, 1994), and 827,000 in 1996 (First Impact Evaluation Survey, 1996). (Accurate
figures for actual coverage of the HBI Program are difficult to obtain. Estimates are based on
the number of HBIs reported by each regional office and an assumption of a constant number



-4 -
of 15 children per home.) Coverage increased most in the early years of Project execution,
stabilizing after 1993. Thereafter, efforts and resources were concentrated on increasing food
rations (the daily ration was improved, and night, weekend and vacation rations were
created), and provision of durable teaching materials (ICBF, 1996).
13.   The Project should be evaluated not only in terms of its impact on the beneficiary
groups but also on the target population, the lower-income families. The First Evaluation
Survey shows positive preliminary results. According to the survey, of the total HBI
beneficiary families in 1996, 91 percent belong to the lower-income strata or live in rural
areas; 87.3 percent of the families' earned income was at the minimum salary or less. These
results match those found by the "Study of Incidence in Social Public Expenditures,"
conducted by the Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n (DNP) in 1993, which indicated
that the HBI Program had high incidence on the target population: over half this population
live in conditions of extreme poverty and over 80 percent are poor. However, successful
targeting did not equate with full coverage of the priority group. The best estimates available
suggest that overall coverage reached about half the target population (First Evaluation
Survey, ICBF, 1996).
14.  It is not possible to distinguish the achievement of project objectives from those of the
HBI Program as a whole. The Project did not support any specific geographical areas or
particular activities. Moreover, no indicators were defined for the Project other than those of
the HBI Program, nor was any causal relation established between the results of the Project
and those of this Program.
15.   For the purposes of the ICR, the achievement of the three specific Project objectives
is assessed based on the results of the First Impact Evaluation Survey and the evaluation
processes developed during Project implementation. The survey reveals Program results that
will clearly become valuable instruments in the strengthening of the HBI Program, especially
with respect to quality of services and impact on child nutrition.
16.   Project objectives were broad, and the specific strategies used in some cases may have
been too limited to obtain any global results for the Program. During Project identification,
for example, risks were detected concerning ICBF management capacity, but were
inadequately specified. Once implementation began, it was clear that the SIG was far less
advanced than anticipated. The lack of an evaluation culture in ICBF also became clear.
17.   The components proved to be flexible enough to permit required adjustments as the
Project developed. At the end of 1995 and early 1996, the Government undertook an-
initiative that, among other aspects, sought to aid children who were in hiding from the
guerrilla movement. All departments and municipalities were to be involved in this effort.
In this regard, ICBF took part by funding training activities under the Project to advocate
MCs and local jurisdictions in dealing with such children under the human rights initiative of
the Government. Although progress was not significant in overall institutional strengthening,
the flexibility of the components did enable the introduction of new issues such as human
rights and decentralization, and the formation of cooperatives among parents' associations.



-5-
Policy Development Component (Original Baseline Cost: US$0.3 million)
18.   Subcomponent: Establishing Financial Arrangements for the CAIPs. The Project
design included a study to evaluate alternatives for the long-term financing of CAIPs,
including the possible privatization of the Centers or their transfer to municipalities. Based
on the study, recommendations to obtain alternative funding sources for CAIPs are being
pursued. More important than the study results was the compulsory reduction of the Program
budget and the pressure to maintain its quality standards, forcing the Institute to find
alternative funding sources such as municipalities and private institutions, and charging
higher monthly tuition fees. This realignment of funding sources for CAIP was helpful to the
HBI Program, the Project, and the ICBF as a whole, as it reduced the subsidy to better-off
families, thus permitting expansion of the better-targeted HBI Program.
19.   Concurrently with conducting the study, ICBF met the goal of reducing its
contribution to the CAIP Program by 30 percent. For 1992, this reduction had already
reached 15 percent, exceeding by two points the percentage established by CONPES
(Council on Economic and Social Policy) and agreed with the Bank. To date, CAIP accounts
for 12 percent of the ICBF investment expenditure budget. Even though other alternative
funding sources exist for this Program, a deficit of approximately US$2 million remains for
benefits payable to personnel assigned to CAIPs.
20.   Subcomponent: Improving the Efficiency of Production and Distribution of
Bienestarina. The study to evaluate the potential for private production and distribution of
Bienestarina and the resulting action plan were completed in August 1992, almost one year
behind schedule. Subsequently, other studies proposing improvements in the supply and
distribution of Bienestarina were funded between 1993 and 1995. ICBF reviewed and
improved the composition of the micronutrients in this product, to fulfill the nutritional needs
by age groups and food habits by region.
21.   These studies provided ICBF with the essential decision-making information and
criteria for the production and distribution of Bienestarina. Although the initial study
recommended selling the manufacturing plants to the private sector, other analyses of the
private market allowed the opening of bids for food production and pointed to the existence
of an oligopolistic market in the private sector, as well as price manipulation practices for
raw materials and production. As this would have jeopardized the goal of efficiency
improvement, it was decided that ICBF should retain control of production and distribution
of Bienestarina, while modernizing its plants, purchasing raw materials through the farming
exchange, lowering prices significantly, using raw material substitute alternatives for product
diversification, and regionalizing distribution.
Institutional Development Component (Original Baseline Cost: US$2.2 million)
22.   Subcomponent: Study of ICBF Organizational Structure and Staffing Changes. The
Project supported two phases of study and restructuring of ICBF, in 1993 and 1995. The



-6 -
first, which focused on the organization and personnel assignments, failed to achieve the
expected results, in part owing to lack of support for change at the central level of the ICBF.
The second helped ICBF to adapt its organizational structure to the new Constitutional
requirements of Colombia, including administrative decentralization and community
participation. No specific evaluation has been performed to assess the benefits of the 1995
restructuring in improving ICBF performance. However, it was noted that the restructuring
strengthened local centers, established global staff groups as recommended in the SAR and
improved the technical level of staff.
23.   Decisions concerning the decentralization of services were postponed due to the lack
of: (a) appropriate channels to guarantee an equitable distribution of funds collected;
(b) political, institutional and legal arrangements; and (c) establishment of municipal
administrative structures and capacity for provision of primary services, such as education
and health. Nevertheless, decentralization is an ongoing, if gradual, process, and ICBF
maintains its strategy for expansion of coverage through partnerships with municipalities.
24.   As part of the ICBF restructuring objective, the Project supported an internal
reorganization of processes. The main results were the adoption of procedures for auditing
controls, adjustments to management control indicators and SIG results, as well as training
personnel in the field in self-management. Likewise, support was provided for the
introduction of controls to Programs under ICBF responsibility by the civilian society
through citizen surveillance.
25.   Despite these efforts, it appears that the institutional modernization process of ICBF
remains unfinished. The ICBF institutional mission should be simplified, and its scope
narrowed. This key issue for the organization and operation of ICBF was not resolved but
actually aggravated in 1995, when its restructuring was meant to reflect a national law based
on the restructuring of the Family Welfare System in general; however, this further strained
the already weak institutional capacity of ICBF to meet its objectives.
26.   Building on the organizational restructuring objective, a national strategy and
awareness plan encouraged ICBF to promote a human rights "culture" within the institution,
as well as within the institutions contracted by ICBF to execute its programs. An information
system on children's rights violations was also created. This system will serve at the same
time to follow up on the enforcement of the Convention for Children's Rights. Its initial
application to the HBI Program has not yet been evaluated.
27.   Subcomponent: Establishing an Integral Computerized Management Information
System (SIG) for the Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Monitoring of ICBF Programs.
The SIG was designed as a tool for the management of administrative and monitoring
processes of ICBF Programs (planning, programming and budgeting), including the HBI
Program. For the HBI Program, the SIG supports monitoring of coverage and internal
efficiency by providing: (a) annual updates on the evaluation of needs; (b) basic information
gathered from MCs on children's nutritional and health conditions; (c) selected information
on parents and other participants; (d) information on the allocation and use of resources; and



- 7 -
(e) information required for financial control and monitoring. The SIG has proved to be a
useful monitoring tool for the HBI Program.
28.   Although the SIG was to be introduced by June 1991, its development began in 1992.
It has yet to be fully completed due to: (i) problems in recruiting sufficient qualified staff;
(ii) delays in procurement of equipment at the central level; (iii) differences of opinion on
technical grounds; (iv) delays in defining the variables feeding the system and the lack of
prototypes (as identified in 9/92 and 12/94 missions); and (v) lack of proper physical and
technical infrastructure at the decentralized level for implementation. Nevertheless, hardware
and software were procured in 1992-93, and the system is currently installed in 15 percent of
the total 245 sites where it will be used. The services subsystem for the HBI Program is in
the process of being designed and tested. Related training for its application has been
scheduled.
29.  Based on ICBF's experience so far, the SIG is one of the most complete information
systems available among Colombia's public institutions. It has provided ICBF with many
positive results, including significant reduction in the processing time for child adoption and
tax collection processes. However, emphasis should be given to developing a planning
culture that permeates the entire organization and ensures the proper use and updating of the
SIG, as well as to extending planning processes beyond simple programming and monitoring
of budgetary and physical goals.
30.   Subcomponent: Introduction of Nationwide Monitoring and Impact Evaluation
Systems. Originally, the Project sought to monitor ICBF operations, particularly those of the
HBI Program, essentially depending on information gathered from the SIG (SAR, par. 2.12).
The impact evaluation, on the other hand, was to be based on a national survey, conducted
annually in several cities, with both HBI and non-HBI families participating. This
information was to be supplemented by a broader annual survey undertaken by the
Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica (DANE) in 13 cities. Both direct and
indirect effects of the Program were to be measured, including the impact on participants and
other family members. In particular, the income and price effects on household consumption
would be examined to estimate total impact on family nutrition and health, as well as the
income effect of additional free time for the mother (dedicated to work, studies, leisure) that
could be attributed to the Program. However, very few of these goals were met.
31.   The design and implementation of a comprehensive impact evaluation started in 1995.
Earlier, only limited efforts at program evaluation had been made. In 1991, DNP conducted
an ex-post evaluation of the HBIs (Sarmiento, 1991), which focused on administrative
processes more than impact. In 1991-92, UNICEF (United Nations Children's Fund) and
ICBF conducted an "Evaluation of HBIs" (Ortiz, Nelson et al., 1992), which lacked
quantitative rigor and, in particular, a control group. In 1994, ICBF performed a National
HBI Census to generate a data base to be used for the design and implementation of regional
qualification plans. However, although the census was a useful tool, it did not include data
regarding direct care provided to children, the target group of the Program. In 1995,
standards were established to monitor quality and outcomes of the HBI Program, as part of an



- 8 -
ICBF Management and Results Evaluation System design. Finally, ICBF initiated in 1995
the design, development and implementation of a Permanent Quality and Impact Evaluation
System of the HBI Program. The First Impact Evaluation Survey was conducted nationwide
during the first quarter of 1996.
32.   One of the objectives of the survey was to determine the effects of ICBF interventions
on the welfare of HBI children. While more rigorous than the earlier efforts, the HBI study
also had no control group. In a joint analysis with the Bank, two complementary information
sources, although insufficient, were used. To overcome this limitation the 1995 Demography
and Health Survey (DHS-95) conducted by PROFAMILIA (Association for Colombian
Family Welfare), where HBI users and non-users could be identified along with a
"continuous duration in the Program" variable. This variable helped to compare groups with
different periods of exposure to the Program. The DHS-95 Survey sought to identify health
and nutrition conditions in the lower socio-economic strata and HBI non-user population, and
compare them with the Program beneficiaries, taken in the First Impact Evaluation Survey
conducted by ICBF.
33.   The ICBF survey enabled the direct effects on children covered by the Program to be
analyzed. The indirect effects on, and benefits for, the child's family were not identified,
although this was one of the original objectives of the Impact Evaluation System proposed
under the Project. Overall, the ICBF survey developed a good conceptual instrument and
sampling tool for a permanent impact evaluation system of the HBI Program on a national
scale, which will allow future follow-up. Even though this survey is cross-sectional, it will
permit a longitudinal focus through the establishment of an HBI sample size that guarantees a
sample turnover for a cycle of four surveys. It will be important to include in the survey a
control group of non-beneficiaries in the target population of the Program.
34.   Despite the progress made in developing the Evaluation System and the SIG Service
subsystem, which represent the basic tools for regular monitoring and evaluation of the HBI,
the two systems have not yet been integrated. Both systems have partially used the indicators
defined in quality standards for the HBIs, but no structured information support system is in
place for using the hardware procured or the software that has been developed.
Service Support Component (Original Baseline Cost: US$30.1 million)
35.   Subcomponent: Provision of Regular Trainingfor Community Mothers and Other
Community HBI Participants in the Management of Food, Nutrition, Health Registers, Child
Development and Home Management. The training of MCs and others was identified as a
priority need to achieve and maintain adequate quality of the HBI Program during expansion.
Training for MCs focused on nutrition, food management (cooking and hygiene), child
growth and health monitoring, and activities related to pre-school development (see SAR
2.14). The continuous training system (SFP), which combines individual study and group
discussion, used by ICBF at the time of Project design, was judged appropriate, though
deficiencies were acknowledged in the results of the training provided to MCs (SAR 1.3).
The Project initiated the SFP, which was centralized until 1994 and later decentralized to



-9-
enable the regions, municipalities and NGOs to contribute. Educational centers were
identified to support the training, creating the need for a coordinating agent who would be
responsible for monitoring training and updating the Program as educational needs were
detected.
36.   The formulation of local training plans coincided with increased flexibility in the
management of loan resources based on an agreement with UNDP. The HBI Program
quality standards became a fundamental tool in guiding the MC training processes and
profiles. Successful experiences were gathered as a means of providing feedback to the
process. Noteworthy among these experiences was the case of the Municipality of
Manizales, with its strong local and private sector linkages. This enabled a significant
improvement both in training provided under the Program as well as in the services provided
by the MCs, based on the institutionalization of supervision and monitoring in HBI homes by
local (municipal) centers.
37.  In 1996, economic problems forced the central level of the ICBF to resume training
management. In late 1995, an agreement was reached between the Bank and the Borrower to
cease the promotion of events that were detracting from the essential purpose of the Project,
and it was decided to redirect those resources to reinforce the technical assistance required to
drive the impact evaluation process.
38.   The Project financed the execution of decentralized training plans and the
procurement of teaching materials to support the MCs training and the design of materials
and activities related to psycho-social development. ICBF also developed a literacy and
basic education program for MCs. The First Impact Evaluation Survey reveals that 27
percent of the MCs still have not finished primary school and 1.3 percent of them are
illiterate.
39.   Leadership and microbusiness management training was also provided to MCs and
parent participants seeking to improve their family income. Partly as a result of this training,
many MCs emerged as leaders in their communities. The training strategy was reoriented in
1995 to focus on improving outcomes for HBI.
40.   The ICBF survey indicates that child malnutrition and morbidity rates and risk
profiles for psycho-social development are similar to non-beneficiary groups. Significantly,
while the Survey showed positive results with respect to MCs' performance in the
administrative aspects of home management, it revealed deficiencies in the quality of care
provided. For example, only 35 percent of MCs could prepare home-made rehydration salts,
only 29 percent provided proper nutrition to children according to the standard menu, 18
percent kept no record of children's weight and height, 57 percent did not take the standard
measurements of children upon their enrollment, 35 percent could not interpret the child
growth chart, and less than 10 percent could interpret the individual and collective growth
curves. The main reasons given were that the charts were unavailable or that they did not
receive needed training.



- 10-
41.   The survey indicated high turnover of children in the Program: 51 percent participated
less than one year; 26.5 percent spent 12-23 months in the Program, and 22 percent remained
in the Program for 24 months or longer. This high turnover of children in the HBIs remains
unexplained and requires firther analysis.
42.   From the survey results it may be concluded that the Program had no clear effect on
the nutritional condition of children. Duration in the HBI Program is associated with some
reduction in overall malnutrition (weight/age) and of acute malnutrition (weight/height), but
there is no apparent impact on chronic malnutrition (height/age). The low impact of the
Program on child nutrition may be based, in part, to deficient diet provided by the HBIs.
Only 10 percent of the HBI homes complied with the standard ICBF requirements of
providing an appropriate diet, 65 percent provided a deficient diet, and 25 percent provided a
severely deficient diet.
43.   The results showed that 70 percent of the children surveyed were ill two weeks before
the evaluation, and the same percentage of HBI beneficiary families were not registered for
health care. However, major progress has been made recently in the Social Security Health
System coverage and the expansion of the Basic Health Care Plan (Plan de Atenci6n Bdsica
en Salud), with the support of the Social Solidarity Network (Red de Solidaridad Social).
Program support for the health of MCs and their families improved, and 85 percent of the
HBI beneficiary families reported receiving health care. Nevertheless, the Survey evaluated
12 psychological processes, but the results were inconclusive. It should be noted that the
Program's design did not include clear, systematic interventions for stimulation of children's
psycho-social development.
44.   Multivariate analysis indicates that the following factors have major effects on
nutritional status, psycho-social development, and morbidity of the children participating in
the Program: (a) physical condition of the HBI; (b) MC's educational level; (c) children's
growth evaluation; (d) food preparation; and (e) monitoring activities. The training received
by the MC had no significant effects on the children's health and nutrition.
45.  In view of the above results, the relative impact and cost-effectiveness of HBIs as
compared with CAIPs should be reevaluated. CAIPs have been found to be of better quality,
and the cost advantage of HBIs has decreased over time, as consideration has been given to
indirect costs and the need for additional inputs. At inception of the HBI Program in 1987,
unit costs for CAIP were 2.6 times those of HBI, but in 1995, this ratio was estimated at 1.2
(ICBF, 1996).
46.   Training of Other Actors: Training aimed at strengthening the responsibility of
parents in child rearing and care was weak. The Project supported a study to form
cooperatives of Parent Associations and to integrate these cooperatives with the
microbusinesses that might emerge and with individual parents. This was intended to
improve supervision of the resources received by HBIs from ICBF as well as to provide
opportunity for higher family income. Workshops were conducted in all regional offices, and
102 cooperatives were created. Currently, a shortage of resources has slowed the creation of



new cooperatives. This strategy has increased social benefits and improved income
distribution through the formation of multi-action cooperatives which generate and
redistribute surpluses among their members. Surpluses may cover health services for HBI
parents, procurement of teaching materials for children, and higher investments in household
improvements.
47.   Training of ICBF Staff The Project funded training for ICBF personnel at all levels.
Areas covered included restructuring, decentralization, citizens' surveillance groups and.
citizen participation, co-management strategies with municipalities, human rights awareness,
the use of impact evaluation and internal control tools, the training MC trainers, and
computer and SIG management.
48.   Subcomponent: Loans to Community Mothers for Household Improvements. Support
for the loan Program for MC home improvement was considered essential to guarantee better
child care and attention. Project resources were to permit at least 75 percent of the MCs to
improve their homes (SAR par. 1.32). To expedite the process, resources were to be
managed through a trust fund. The community participated in selecting the beneficiary
mothers, as well as in the supervision of works, initially through Parent Associations (SAR
2.23). This role was later assumed by universities and NGOs, as a means to improve
technical assistance and supervision. Today, 75 percent of the ICBF regional offices are
receiving that technical assistance. The improvement of 50,000 homes were set as the
original goal. To date, some 60,711 MCs have benefited from the loans, including some
recipients who recieved more than one loan.
49.   The system chosen to develop the HBI Program was subsidized credit, paid directly
through discounts on grants given by ICBF to the MCs, a system which has proven to
produce healthy collections and Program capitalization. Currently, the Program for MC
home improvements has resources of about US$10 million, as a result of collections on MCs'
debts and interest generated through trust fund management. The HBI Program gained from
the participation of NGOs, universities and others, all of which provided technical assistance
and works supervision, which strengthened the administrative, technical and financial
decentralization by ICBF. As of 1997, the Program information systematization was initiated
to improve collections management and provide better knowledge of the specific use of the
loans.
50.   Despite meeting physical goals of the housing Program, the First Evaluation Survey
indicates that, of the 48 percent of the MCs who received a housing loan, 72 percent used the
funds as intended, i.e., to improve bathroom facilities, kitchens, and children's areas.
However, 28 percent used the funds to satisfy other household-related needs not originally
considered in the Project's guidelines. These included payment of arrears and land
purchasing, indicating a need to improve control over the use of housing loans.
51.  The survey indicates overcrowding of children at many HBIs: 51 percent have less
than one square meter per child. This may indicate that the Program needs more flexible
regulations regarding the maximum number of children per home: while the Program sets a



-12-
ceiling of 15 children per HBI, this may exceed the capacity of some HBIs. Moreover,
15 children under seven years of age may be too much of a workload for the MCs guarantee
qualified attention. This aspect of the HBI model needs to be reevaluated.
52.   The physical conditions shown by survey results were precarious in many HBIs:
36 percent of them lacked a sewage system; 24 percent had no water supply system; and
37 percent had feces inside and outside of the home, and floors in bad condition. The food
preparation and storage sites were equally deficient: 16 percent of homes had the kitchen on
the same site as that of child care, and 14 percent lacked the proper area for food storage.
Although the conditions of HBIs that made use of the loans were better than those of non-
beneficiaries, the prevalence of poor physical conditions suggests the need for improvement.
The maximum loan amount should be studied to gauge whether it is enough to satisfy the
required household improvements to provide proper child care. Furthermore, the MC and
housing eligibility standards need to be reviewed. Given that the Program operates in a low
socioeconomic context, greater efforts are required to ensure adequate child care.
53.   Subcomponent: Technical Assistance to ICBFfor Program and Project Management
and Coordination. The Project provided for a small Management Unit to provide support to
the ICBF in project administration, while assigning responsibility for technical aspects of the
Project to ICBF departmnents, thereby avoiding parallel structures. Until 1994, ICBF was in
charge of resource management, and goods procurement was contracted with UNIDO
(United Nations Industrial Development Organization). In September 1994, an agreement
was signed with UNDP (United Nations Development Programme) for the management of
Project resources, and in November 1995 with OEI (Organization of Ibero-American States
for Education, Science & Culture), for the administration of training resources.
C. Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation
1.    Organization and Management
54.   By virtue of being a part of the HBI Program, and not having its own structure, the
Project was subjected to changes at the ICBF top management structure and the various
guidelines given by five different directors appointed during its execution period.
Performance was also affected by high turnover in the Management Unit (four coordinators
in six years). During much of the Project, the Unit lacked sufficiently qualified staff. Delays
in establishing the information system and the lack of an evaluation culture in ICBF
influenced Project development.
2.    Project Design and Scope
55.   Many external factors affected Project development, including: (i) constitutional
changes, which defined a new role for the central level and decentralization and public
participation at all levels; (ii) application of revised economic policies and decentralization;
(iii) the outburst of social instability and increased violence, narcotics trafficking and armed
conflict; (iv) political crisis; and (v) an economic crisis and recession, with subsequent



- 13 -
application of fiscal measures that often caused delays in loan disbursements. The risk of
these factors was not considered at the Project design stage.
56.   The Project was designed to support the expansion of a Program that had been
underway since 1987, which in turn had its own design and strategies. No indicators were
designed specifically for the Project other than those of the Program, which ultimately made
supervision, management, and monitoring activities difficult to perform during project
implementation. There were also internal security issues that complicated project
supervision.
57.   The objectives established for the Project were broad support for, and expansion of,
the HBI Program. The Program's resources for the past five years were only 48 percent of
the investment expenditure funds, and 40 percent of the total ICBF funds.
58.   As a result of significant delays in the first years of the Project life, only 92 percent of
the loan funds were disbursed (Table 4). The main reason for these delays was ICBF's
institutional weakness (see par. 54).
59.   Lack of clear quality standards was a weakness of Project design.
3.    Inter-Sectoral and Intra-Sectoral Relations
60.   Many of the Project's activities described in the SAR depended on outside agencies
such as the Ministry of Health (for the health care for the children) and the Ministry of
Education (pre-school education for children participating in the HBI Program), INURBE
and IFI (housing component and formation of cooperatives by parent's associations under the
HBI Program), United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and OEI (ICBF's contractors for the management
of Project resources), SENA (MC training), DNP and Ministry of Finance (disbursement
effectiveness). Territorial Entities (municipalities) and civil society (NGOs, universities,
parent's associations) were also involved. However, the relations with the above institutions
were not always effective or sustained. No formal agreements were established to clarify
responsibilities of other agencies and confirm their commitment to carry them out.
61.   On the positive side, ICBF initiated a co-financing process for welfare services with
the municipalities, through which strategic alliances with the public and private sectors,
NGOs, and universities increased the quality of the services provided and extended their
coverage.
D. Project Sustainability
62.   ICBF's financing structure (mainly from tax revenues) ensures the continued
financing of the HBI Program. The loan's contribution to the financing of the Program was
quite modest (six percent).



- 14-
63.   The Impact Evaluation System, introduced with the First Impact Evaluation Survey,
still in process, is important for ICBF. It is expected that, given the strength and impact of its
results, the system can provide the basis for sustainability, not only for the HBI Program, but
also for other ICBF Programs.
64.   Although encountering delays, the monitoring system is also likely to be maintained
through the SIG in the future. It has become institutionalized and its application has
demonstrated benefits.
65.   The credit subcomponent for the improvement of MCs' homes yielded sufficient
returns (US$10 million from the payment of loans to the MCs and the interest generated
through the trust fund) to allow for its continuation. The necessary arrangements have been
made for this program to supplement the Government housing programs for lower-income
populations.
66.   Though sustainable, training activities should be reviewed using the results found in
the survey to reformulate the process, methodology, contents and supervision of the training
for MCs. Permanent supervision should also be introduced to maintain quality standards and
ensure continuous training. This action has been undertaken by allowing the participation of
NGOs and universities in the training and monitoring process, to improve the quality of
training.
67.   The co-financing of projects with municipalities will continue to be of importance to
sustain the HBI Program, as additional resources are required to broaden coverage and
qualify services.
E. Bank Performance
68.   Bank support and guidance was key in the definition and development of quality
standards for the HBI Program, technical assistance for the impact evaluation, suggested
educational strategies, training plans and process systematization (SIG). However, the Bank
could have employed more rigorous control, follow-up and analysis during the first years of
Project life with respect to some components (e.g., timely development of the SIG, the
Impact Evaluation System, and the training process for MCs). Given the technical support
(rather than investment) focus of the Project, typical loan sanctions provided (i.e., dated
covenants) were not particularly useful in ensuring effective Project implementation. In
retrospect, the Bank should have provided more support for design of the impact evaluation
prior to the Project, given its importance for both the Project and the Program. Stronger
emphasis on the design and implementation of the impact evaluation was applied toward the
end of the Project life, although a baseline was not clearly established.
F. Borrower Performance
69.   The relatively small financial contribution of the Project to the HBI Program was
sometimes reflected in low priority assigned to it by some of the ICBF administrations.



- 15 -
ICBF's application of the Bank's recommendations on some components (especially MC
training and impact evaluation processes) was slow. This disregard by successive ICBF and
Project managers of activities that were of key importance to the Program was reflected in
both delays (impact evaluation) and low quality (training). ICBF's inter-institutional
coordination was generally weak with central-level institutions, but effective in establishing
operational alliances with municipalities.
G. Assessment of Project Outcome
70.   Overall, the results of the Project are satisfactory. The Project achieved its objective
of influencing coverage expansion in part, with high incidence on the target population. The
HBI Program had only a limited effect on the welfare of children, expressed in terms of their
health and nutrition and their psycho-social development. However, the Project ultimately
succeeded in introducing an evaluation and information culture in the ICBF. These two
elements should help ICBF improve quality in the future in terms of home improvements and
knowledge of home management that should benefit local communities and MCs in
particular. Actions taken to support ICBF institutional strengthening, along with the SIG and
the impact evaluation processes, are also positive outcomes.
H. Key Lessons Learned
U Understanding both the political and institutional climate has important implications for
the immediate impact of the project and sustainable outcomes. Projects such as this one
that involve different participating institutions to support the achievement of Project
objectives should establish agreements with authorities or institutions, and provision
should be made for periodic review/revision /ratification of institutional arrangements or
agreements throughout implementation. This is especially germane in the case of first-
time projects in sectors with weak or nonexistent institutional linkages at project
inception.
*  The scale and location ofprojects has a direct bearing on whether government agencies
or NGOs are better positioned to achieve optimal project results. Centralized procedures,
characteristic of the older operations supported by the Bank and the Colombian
Government, were poorly suited to a highly decentralized and participatory service
delivery model such as the HBIs. In this case, the involvement of NGOs might have led
to a greater project impact.
* Performance indicators, even for already-piloted models, such as the UNICEF-HBI
model, need to be developed independent ofprevious experience and adapted to
institutional arrangements under specific country andproject conditions. Projects need
adequate baseline data on which to compare progress. Design should reflect and already
incorporate these data including plans for evaluation follow-up. In addition, project
design should include provision for periodic evaluation of standards and testing of
assumptions, and for revision of guidelines in response to impact and experience. More



-16-
importantly, when using a "model" approach, sustainability on the scale, scope, and other
key factors need to be evaluated to guide a tailoring to the country, institutional, and
project-specific environment.
* New information systems may prove difficult to design and implement, which needs to be
reflected in implementation timing milestones. The delays in implementing ICBF's
information systems prevented it from reaching the scale intended. The system was
difficult to design, and, above all, to implement, as in the case of SIG and the impact
evaluation, where insufficient attention was given to practicability and unrealistic
compliance times were specified.



- 17-
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(Loan 3201-CO)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1.1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 1.2:   Assessments over Time
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8.A. 1: Project Costs and HBI/ICBF Program Costs
by Component: 1990-95 (US$ million)
Table 8.A.2: Estimated Project Costs by Item: 1990-96 (US$ million)
Table 8.A.3: Estimated Project Costs and Credit Executed by Item: 1990- 96
(US$ million)
Table 8.B. 1: Project Estimated Funding (US$ million)
Table 8.B.2: Actual Project Costs (US$ million)
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Input
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions



-18-
Table 1.1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives        Substantial Partial Negligible Not-Applicable
Macro Policies                     E        E        El
Sector Policies                    El      E1                     El
Financial Objectives                rl                EJ C1
Institutional Development           Q1 1             Q      
Physical Objectives                IZJ      E         E          E
Gender Issues                               El       E           Ell
Poverty Reduction                  El                 El         El
Other Social Objectives             Q                El Ql
Environmental Objectives            Ql      Q         Q 
Private Sector Development         E        [1       E            Q
B.    Project Sustainability            Likely     Unlikely    Uncertain
C.    Bank Perfornance                 Highly
Satisfactory Satisfactory Deficient
Identification                     E           Q0         E
SAR                                Ql    E2
Supervision                                    E          El
D.   Borrower Performance               Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Deficient
Preparation                        E                      El 
Implementation                     E                      El
Covenant Compliance                  l                    [1
Operation                          E                      El
E.    Assessment of Outcome      Highly                                  Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Unsatisfactory
El                       El            Elr



-19-
Table 1.2: Assessments over Time
Rating                                  FY91  FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96
Overall Condition                          1      2       2      U       S      S
Project Objectives                         1      1       2      U       S      S
Covenant Compliance                        I      1      NR      1       1       1
Management Performance                     1      1      NR      3       2      2
Funds Availability                         1      2      NR      1       1       1
Progress                                 NR       I     NR       1       1       1
Training Progress                        NR       1     NR       3       3      2
Technical Assistance Progress            NR       I     NR      NR      NR      1
Progress of Studies                      NR       1      NR      1       1       1
Monitoring and Evaluation                NR       I       I     NR       2       1
Table 2: Related Bank Loans*
Loan Name/Number                        Purpose                    Year of Approval      Status
Preceding operations
Integrated Nutrition       To lower mortality and morbidity rates in a       1977           Closed.
Improvement Project        basic needs strategy adopted in 1970s.
(1487-CO)
Health Services Integration    To provide basic health services.             1986           Closed.
Project (2611 -CO)
Rural Basic Education      To support the improvement of primary rural       1982           Closed.
Project (2192-CO)          education in four departnents
Following operations
Second Subsector Primary   To support the improvement and expansion of       1988          Ongoing.
Education Project (3010-CO)  primary education coverage in rural areas using
the "Escuela Nueva" model.
Municipal Health Services  To support the improvement and expansion of       1993          Ongoing.
Project (3615-CO)          basic health services at the municipal level.
* Loan 3201-CO was the first Bank funded project in community child care in Colombia.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned                    Actual Date
Identification                                   n/a                            n/a
Preparation                           November, 1988- May, 1989      November, 1988 - May, 1989
Appraisal (SAR)                               June, 1989                     June, 1989
Negotiations                             April 27-May 2, 1990           April 27-May 2, 1990
Board Presentation                          May 22, 1990                    May 22, 1990
Signing                                          n/a                       August 1, 1990
Project initiation                        November 1, 1990                December 5, 1990
Midterm Review                                June, 1996                     July, 1994*
Project Completion                        December 31, 1995              December 31, 1996
Loan Closing                                June 30, 1996                  March 31, 1997
* The Program was reoriented even though the Mission did not hold the Midterm Review status.



-20 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million) (Calendar years)
Year               90      91      92      93      94      95      96      97
SAR Estimate                  1.20     3.60   8.90  14.90    20.20  24.00
Actual                        1.15     2.00   5.54  11.68    15.63   18.53  22.20    22.57
Actual as % of Estimate      96%      56%    62%    78%      77%    77%    93%        94%
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator                           Estimated               Actual
General Management
Hiring of technical advisors to support HBI program  Nov. 1, 1990         Nov. 14, 1990
management
Contract signing between ICBF and the Fiduciary - for the   Nov. 1, 1990  Nov. 2, 1990
management of credits for the housing component                       (Contract No.1998)
Formal adoption, by ICBF Resolution, of the procedure  Nov. 1, 1990       Res. 21202 Nov. 90
manual for the management of credits for home                         Res. 1996 Sep. 92
improvements
Res. 2142 Nov. 94
Physical Goals
Coverage (1989 baseline, 500,000 children):         100,000 annually      1994: 799,000
I million at project  1996: 827,000
completion
Number of Community Mothers                         7,000 MC annually
(1989 baseline, 32,000 MC):                         67,000 MC at project    1997: 77,875
completion.
Number of housing units improved:                   10,000 in 1990
(1989 baseline, 15,000 housing units):              12,000 in 1991
14,000 in 1992
12,000 in 1993
63,000 at project     1997: 60,711
completion



-21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicator                   Estimated                            Actual
Policy Development        Reduce ICBF budget assigned to   12% of ICBF investment expenditure budget
CAIPs by 30%.                 goes to CAIP (Budget reduced by 12%).
Conduct a study on future     Alternative financial sources analyzed.
financing of CAIPs.
Possible privatization of the Bienestarina
plants was analyzed. Analysis showed
higher prices and market manipulation in
privte sector. Privatization plans cancelled,
and 4 additional studies were begun for the
modernization of plants and the analysis of
distribution strategies.
Institutional Strengthening  Conduct a study on the     2 restructuring studies were conducted in 1992
restructuring of ICBF and     and in 1995, to support restructuring of
implement such restructuring  ICBF. The second sought to adapt ICBF to
(Restructuring, decentralization,   the new Constitutional requirements and to
human rights, internal control).   comply with decentralization of services.
Studies were financed to analyze the
different alternatives for the decentralization
of functions in local centers and welfare
services, as well as to imbue them with the
human rights approach, which allowed
ICBF to have a new vision and mission.
Develop an Integrated         Software was developed in 1996, hardware
Management System.            was purchased in 1996. Administration and
Protection Services sections have been
implemented; prevention services and
system articulation are underway, which is
an essential tool for the improvement of
ICBF management.
Introduce and implement an    Methodology was developed and first survey
impact evaluation system.     was implemented in 1996. The results of
this survey became available in 1997, and
have become an essential decision-making
tool for the HBI program and disseminate
the results of the impact evaluation to other
social programs in Colombia.
Service Support           Introduce regular training    A regular training program is in place with
programs for Community        limited follow-up actions to assess its
Mothers and other community   quality. Service supply is not satisfactory.
participants.
Provide home improvement loans  At Project completion, 60,711 loans had been
to Community Mothers.         granted.



-22 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                    Status                 Study impact
1. Ex-Post Evaluation of Child Care Homes        Completed: November, 1991.          Medium
2. Management and Future Financing of CAIPs      Completed: April, 1992.             Medium
3. Cost-Effectiveness Study and Management of ICBF   Completed: August, 1992 (IFI).  Medium
Bienestarina Plants                        Other studies completed: 12/92, 10/93,
11/94, and 07/95.
4. Evaluation of Child Care Homes                Completed: September, 1992.         Medium
5. First Restructuring                           Completed: March, 1993.             Minimum
6. Internal Control Implementation Study         Completed: September, 1993.         Medium
7. Second Restructuring                          Completed: October, 1995.           Medium
8. Decentralization Scope                        Completed: March, 1996.             Medium
9. Establishment of Parents Associations Cooperatives   Completed: June,1996.        Medium
10. Community Mothers Training:
- Diagnostics                                Completed: July, 1995.              Medium
- Portfolio of Innovative Pedagogic Experiences:    Completed: July, 1995.       Medium
- Training Standards                         Completed: Dec., 1995 and revised:  Substantial
March, 1997.
11. Human Rights                                 Completed: March, 1997.             Substantial
12. Impact Evaluation, First Survey: Methodological    Completed: May, 1997.        Substantial
Report
13. Impact Evaluation, First Survey: Integral Analysis:  Preliminary analysis available:  Substantial
Descriptive and Multivariate               December, 1997.



-23 -
Table 8A.1: Project Costs* and HBI/ICBF Program Costs by Component: 1990-95 (US$ million)
Component                   Project   Program   Proj/Prog   Project
%      .% Col.P/.
1. Policy Development                         0.3        0.3      100.0        0.7
1.1. CAIP Study                               0.1        0.1      100.0
1.2. Bienestarina Study                       0.2        0.2      100.0
2. Institutional Development                  2.2        2.9       75.9        5.5
2.1. Institutional Assessment                 0.1        0.1      100.0
2.2. Management Information System            1.0        1.0      100.0
2.3. Impact Evaluation                        0.5        0.8       62.5
2.4. HCB Program Coordination                 0.3        0.5       60.0
2.5. Other Studies                            0.3        0.5       60.0
3. Service Support                           30.1      671.4        4.5       74.9
3.1. Training and Teaching Materials Procurement    10.0  27.1     36.9
3.2. Housing improvements                    20.1       29.0       69.3
3.3. Equipment                                          35.2        0.0
3.4. Furniture                                           9.8        0.0
3.5. MC Compensations                                  185.6        0.0
3.6. Bienestarina                                       22.0        0.0
3.7. Other Food Items                                  331.9        0.0
3.8. Utilities                                          30.8        0.0
Total Base Costs                             32.6      674.6        4.8       81.1
Physical Contingencies                        0.3                              0.7
Price Contingencies                           7.3                             18.2
TOTAL COSTS                                  40.2      674.6        6.0      100.0
* Costs estimated in the SAR
Table 8A.2: Estimated Project Costs by Item* 1990-1996 (US$ million)
Item             Local    Foreign    Total    Foreign    Item    Base Costs
1. Civil Works (Housing Sub-
Loans)                   15.1       5.0      20.1      24.9      50.0      61.7
2. Goods (Equipment and
Teaching Materials)        1.8      2.7       4.5      60.0      11.2      13.8
3. Technical Assistance
(Program Coordination,
Studies and Evaluation)    1.4      0.0       1.4       0.0       3.5       4.3
4. Training                   6.0       0.6       6.6       9.1      16.4      20.2
Base Costs                   24.3       8.3      32.6      25.5      81.1     100.0
5. Contingencies              6.5       1.1       7.6      14.5      18.9
Total Cost                   30.8       9.4      40.2      23.4     100.0
* SAR Estimated Costs for the 1990-95 Period



-24 -
Table 8A.3: Estimated Costs * and Credit Executed by Item 1990-96 (US$ Million)
Source           Housing   Goods   Technical Training   Total
Assistance    %        %
Initial Estimated            11.7       3.9       2.3       6.1      24.0
Executed                     11.7       3.4       2.3       5.1      22.6
Executed/Estimated          100.0      91.9     120.3      83.3      94.2
SAR appraisal for the 1990-95 period.
Table 8B.1: Project Estimated Funding* (US $ million)
Source            Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
BIRF                         14.8       9.2      24.0      48.1      97.9      59.7
Colombian Government         16.0       0.2      16.2      51.9       2.1      40.3
Total              30.8       9.4      40.2     100.0     100.0     100.0
*SAR estimate for the 1990-95 period.
Table 8B.2: Actual Project Costs* (US $ million)
Source            Local   Foreign    Total
BIRF                         14.9       7.6      22.5
Colombian Govermnent         12.3       0.0      12.3
Total              27.2       2.6      34.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Rate of return was not applicable in this case. Project benefits were expressed in terms of children, Community
Mothers, mothers of children covered by the program, and the community. For the children, the benefits were
found in the improvements in nutrition, health conditions and pre-school learning of children to be covered by
the HBI program. For the Community Mothers, the benefits were the modest income provided by the program
and their home improvements. For the children's mothers, the benefit translated into the available option to seek
an additional paid job, study or leisure time. Finally, the benefit for the community was in terms of their
participation and mobilization to support the self-help strategies in the improvement of health, education and
living conditions.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Section in
the Loan    Type of  Status  Original  Reviewed          Agreement Description                        Comments
Agreement  Agreement            Date      Date
2.02.1 (ii)    5       C      12 /31/ 91           Study on the financing and production of  Plants were technologically improved, timely
Bienestarina and action plan completed    supply processes of raw materials, production
as of Dec/91                        and distribution directly by ICBF.
2.02 a (iii);   5      C      12/31/91             Studies on ICBF restructuring and changes An attempt was made to adapt the ICBF
2.02 d;                                              in ICBF organizational structure and  structure to Constitutional demands - Process
2.02 c                                               staffing restructuring; decentralization  not evaluated and yet unconcluded - and
strategies and action completed by 1991.   undertake the strengthening of local centers
and the new vision and mission of ICBF
through a human rights approach.
2.03 alb    5          CD    6/30 /91              Introduction of SIG and HBI impact would  Significant delay in initiation. The General
be introduced by June 30, 1991.      System (SIG) was designed, hardware was
purchased, and is befig implemented.
First Impact Evaluation Survey implemented in
1996, results available as of 07-97.
2.05 a/b;   9          C                           Bank and ICBF will conduct an annual
2.06 a/b/c                                           review of the HBI and Bank would
approve the proposed budget each year
by September 30 and November 30
respectively.
2.08 a      11         C                           ICBF would reduce the budget assigned to  Other alternative financing forms for CAIPs
CAIPs by 30% in real terms during    were accessed.
1989-95
3.03 b      10         C      10/31/90             Each child should have received complete  The majority of children are vaccinated upon
set of vaccinations before joining the  joining the HBI program.
HBI program and criteria should be
established and arrangements made to
obtain the additional basic health  No information available on meeting basic
requirements of these children by    health requirements
October 31,1990



-26 -
Type of agreement:
1 Accounts/Audits
2 Financial perfonnance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3 Flow and utilization of project funds
4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 Environmental covenants
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Project implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory action
13 Other
Status: C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
NC = Non-complied covenant
SOON = Covenant expected in a reasonably short time
CP= Covenant complied with partially
NYD= Not yet due
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements: n/a



- 27 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Weeks)
Stage        89     90     91      92     93     94      95     96     97    Total
Preparation     42.6    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    42.6
SAR               n/a   18.8    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    18.8
Negotiations      n/a    4.5    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a        4.5
Supervision       n/a    0.5    6.1    7.7    3.9   17.3   12.7    2.0    3.3    53.5
Completion        n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    n/a    2.9        2.9
Total           42.6   23.8    6.1    7.7    3.9   17.3   12.7    2.0    6.2   122.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
State of    Month/    No. of Persons   Weeks in    Overall    Development    Types of
Project Cycle    Year     and Specialty1    Field      Status      Objectives    Problems3
Identification
Preparation   11/88-5/89
Preappraisal     6/89
Appraisal        5/90
Supervisions
I          4/91          1-0           NA           1            1
II         11/91       1-0, 1-P        2.0          2             1             F
III        6/92          2-0                        2             1             F
IV         10/92         2-0                        2             1             F
V          /93           n/a           n/a         n/a           n/a           n/a
VI          /93           n/a           n/a         n/a          n/a            n/a
VII         2/94     2-0, 1-ES, 1-F     2.0         U             U            M-F
VIII        12/94     2-0, I-E, 1-H     3.0          S             S
IX         2/95        1-0, 1-ES        2.8         S             S             M
X          6/96    I-ES, 1-0, 1-H, 1-    0.2        S             S             M
P
XI         12/96    1-E, 2-ES, 1-0, 1-    2.8       S             S             M
H
Completion      05/97      2-E, 1-E, 1-L     0.5          S            S             M
Specialists: E= Economist; P= Planner; F= Financial Analyst; H= Health Specialist; W= Welfare Specialist;
ES= Education Specialist; M= Management Specialist; O= Operations; L= Legal.
2Rating: 1= No problem or minor problems; 2= moderate problems; 3= important problems. S= Satisfactory;
U= Unsatisfactory.
Types of Problems: L= Legal; M= Management; F= Funds availability; D= Disbursements; PR= Procurement



/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 29 -                       Appendix A
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE BIENESTAR FAMILIAR
REUNION INICIAL PREPARACION INFORME FINAL DE EVALUACION
PROYECTO HOGARES COMUNITARIOS - PRESTAMO 3201-CO
AYUDA MEMORIA
I. Introduccion
1.    Durante los dias 8, 9, 14 y 20 de Mayo, una Misi6n del Banco Mundial realiz6
reuniones con los equipos del Gobiemo Nacional con el fin de compartir con las diferentes
instancias las tareas y compromisos que se deben seguir para el desarrollo del Informe Final
de Evaluaci6n del Proyecto (ICR) que sera preparado por parte del Banco en coordinaci6n
con el Gobiemo Colombiano.
2.    El equipo por parte del Banco estuvo conformado por Martha Laverde (LASHD RM
Colombia), Carmen Elisa Fl6rez (Consultora Local), Patricia Avila (Consultora Local),
Gloria Maria Borrero (Consultora Local). Por parte del Gobiemo Nacional participaron en
las reuniones en representaci6n del ICBF Luisa Fernanda Torres (Subdirecci6n de
Planeaci6n), Maria Cecilia Cuartas (Subdirecci6n de Prevenci6n), los equipos tecnicos de las
respectivas Subdirecciones asi como los equipos del Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial y el
equipo de Consultores contratado por el ICBF para el desarrollo de la Evaluaci6n de Impacto.
De igual manera el equipo del Banco sostuvo reuniones con Jesuis Duarte, Jefe de La Unidad
de Desarrollo Social y su equipo de la Divisi6n de Salud en el Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n.
3.    Los objetivos de estas reuniones fueron: (i) compartir con el Gobierno Nacional el
contenido, metodologia y alcance en la preparaci6n del Informe Final de Evaluaci6n (ICR)
sobre la base del estado actual del Proyecto, (ii) hacer un diagn6stico del estado de cada uno
de los objetivos, componentes y subcomponentes establecidos en el documento de Proyecto
(SAR), definir el tipo de informaci6n y fuente que sera requerido para su elaboraci6n, (iii)
iniciar los trabajos en equipo que se requieran y, (iv) discutir el tipo de analisis que el
Instituto deba realizar como parte de esta evaluaci6n.
4.    La Misi6n se organiz6 en diferentes reuniones pretendiendo abordar los siguientes
temas: (i) Evaluaci6n de Impacto, el cual se consider6 la base para todo el analisis, (ii) El
Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial en especial su aplicaci6n y utilizaci6n en el Programa de
Hogares Comunitarios, (iii) Los Servicios prestados en el Programa de Hogares (vivienda,
capacitaci6n, nutrici6n etc.), (iv) El Desarrollo y Fortalecimiento Institucional y (v) La
administraci6n del Proyecto a traves de la Coordinacion Operativa.



- 30 -                      Appendix A
II. Evaluacion de Impacto
5.    El ICBF y el grupo de consultores para la evaluaci6n de impacto considera que aun no
esta listo el informe final sobre los resultados del estudio, que es necesario hacer analisis de
los resultados del estudio nutricional, y sobre el analisis multivariado. No se hace una
presentaci6n formal del estudio, pero se distribuye el documento final metodol6gico.
6.    A partir de los documentos preliminares (Nov. 96 y Marzo 97) que el equipo del
Banco habia recibido previamente sobre la metodologia, resultados descriptivos y anilisis
multivariado del estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto, la misi6n del Banco plantea tres temas a
ser considerados en la reuni6n: metodologia, resultados, acciones al futuro.
7.    Metodologia: Se consideraron los siguientes puntos:
*  Como lo ha venido realizando el ICBF, el estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto toma
como poblaci6n objetivo s6lo la poblaci6n usuaria de HCB. Los analisis se
hacen sobre la poblaci6n beneficiaria. Se considera que si no se tiene un grupo
de referencia, el estudio seria una linea de base pero no seria del tipo de
evaluaci6n de impacto. Se considera que dos lineas de trabajo complementarias
podrian subsanar la situaci6n actual, dada la existencia de informaci6n y la
oportunidad tecnica para hacerlo. Primero, existe una fuente de informaci6n
secundaria, la encuesta de Demografia y Salud de 1995 (DHS-95) realizada por
PROFAMILIA, que permite identificar beneficiarios y no-beneficiarios de HCB,
que incluye preguntas sobre nutrici6n y salud, y que utiliza el mismo marco
muestral que la encuesta de evaluaci6n de impacto del ICBF. Seria necesario
aislar la poblaci6n de los estratos 1 y 2 que constituyen la poblaci6n objetivo del
programa. Los no-beneficiarios de HCB, segun la DHS-95, se compararian con
los usuarios del programa de la encuesta de evaluaci6n de impacto del ICBF.
Segundo, la variable tiempo de permanencia en el programa HCB es una variable
continua en la encuesta de evaluaci6n de impacto ICBF. Por lo tanto, es posible
identificar grupos afectados y grupos muy poco afectados por el programa de
acuerdo al tiempo de permanencia. Se podria tomar como grupo de referencia
aquellos muy poco afectados por el programa.
*  Aun cuando los resultados estan en proceso de analisis el estudio muestra que el
tiempo de permanencia en el programa HCB es una variable importante ya que
permite ver el efecto del programa en la salud y bienestar del nino. En los
modelos multivariados se incluye esta variable. Sin embargo, esta mostrando
resultados contrarios a los esperados, y aun no se tiene explicaci6n al respecto.
*  La dimensi6n regional en los analisis es muy importante dado que uno de los
objetivos del estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto es que sus resultados se utilicen
como herramienta de planeaci6n y control. Esta dimensi6n existe en los analisis
descriptivos, pero aTun no se ha incorporado en los analisis multivariados. El



- 31 -                       Appendix A
grupo de consultores del estudio definira grupos regionales homogeneos,
definidos en base a indicadores de desempenlo de los hogares, a los cuales
aplicara los modelos multivariados.
* La diferenciaci6n urbano-rural no se ha hecho sistematicamente en los analisis de
los resultados descriptivos ni en los multivariados, a pesar de que los indicadores
existentes muestran grandes diferencias.
*  La definici6n de las variables y los indicadores del estudio de evaluaci6n de
impacto parti6 del documento de estandares. Aunque este es un documento
te6rico, permiti6 identificar los componentes del modelo de evaluaci6n de
impacto.
*  El disefno metodol6gico del estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto permite mirar los
efectos directos sobre los ninos, pero no permite identificar efectos indirectos
sobre el beneficio en la familia del ninlo. El estudio incorpora s6lo a nivel de
percepci6n sobre el beneficio en la madre. Se plantea la necesidad de considerar,
en futuras encuestas sobre evaluaci6n de impacto, el beneficio en las familias y la
comunidad.
*  El estudio construye un indicador global de desempefio de los HCB, el cual sirve
como instrumento comparativo entre hogares y de seguimiento de un mismo
hogar. Sin embargo, los resultados indican que este indicador no aporta mucho
como determinante del bienestar del nifo, lo cual era una hip6tesis de trabajo.
8.    Resultados: Se comentaron los siguientes resultados preliminares y mas
sobresalientes:
* El estudio de evaluaci6n de impacto muestra una cobertura de HCB de-54%
sobre la poblacion objetivo (nifios 0-6 afios de estratos I y 2). El ICBF informa
que el nuimero de beneficiarios es similar al obtenido en el Censo de HCB de
1994, con una cobertura menor ahora dado el crecimiento de la poblaci6n
objetivo. Asi mismo, este resultado, que implica que la mitad de la poblaci6n
objetivo aun no esta cubierta, hace imperativo utilizar el grupo de referencia de
no-beneficiarios en la evaluaci6n de impacto.
* La variable tiempo de vinculacion al programa indica que el 51.5% de los nifios
llevan menos de un affo en el programa, los cuales estan concentrados alrededor
de los 3 meses. El grupo de evaluaci6n plantea como explicaci6n la distribuci6n
etarea de los nifios usuarios (concentrados entre los 3-4 afios) y una alta rotaci6n
y renovaci6n del grupo de niffos beneficiarios dada la iniciaci6n del grado 0 en el
sistema educativo que estaria acogiendo a los niffos de 5-6 afios. Estos resultados
requeririan analisis adicional separando el efecto tiempo de permanencia del
efecto etareo. Es necesario cruzar estas dos variables.



- 32 -                       Appendix A
* El grupo de consultores contratados por el ICBF para el estudio considera que es
necesario desarrollar y complementar mas los resultados sobre nutrici6n. Para tal
fin se esta en proceso la contrataci6n de un especialista en nutrici6n.
9.    Acciones futuras: sostenibilidad del proyecto. Al respecto se plantearon las
siguientes inquietudes:
* El ICBF manifesto no haber tenido una participaci6n activa y no haber asumido
una pertenencia de los resultados en los ejercicios de evaluaci6n anteriores. En
este caso, se ha dado un proceso compartido y de dillogo tecnico en las diferentes
etapas del estudio. Sin embargo, es necesario crear una cultura de evaluaci6n en
el ICBF. Que esta haciendo el ICBF para dirigir, interpretar, asumir los resultados
de una pr6xima evaluaci6on?
*  La experiencia del grupo de consultores en el estudio de evaluaci6n lleva a
plantear una serie de recomendaciones en el documento metodol6gico final. Se
resalta el disenlo muestral rotativo que facilita la selecci6n de muestras para
pr6ximas evaluaciones, la periodicidad de las evaluaciones, los pros y contras de
la participaci6n del ICBF en el operativo de campo. Sin embargo, el ICBF
plantea que aunque el documento metodol6gico lo entregan oficialmente, aun no
tienen conocim iento de su contenido y por lo tanto no pueden opinar sobre las
estrategias que el Instituto liderara frente al tema de evaluaciones de impacto en el
futuro.
*  En cuanto al uso y diseminaci6n de los resultados de este estudio de evaluaci6n, el
ICBF realizara talleres al interior de la instituci6n por macro-regi6n, con el
objetivo de que se haga un autodiagn6stico y se genere un plan de cualificaci6n
del programa. Los talleres se realizaran bajo la coordinaci6n de la Subdirecci6n
de Prevenci6n y la Subdirecci6n de Planeaci6n.
*  Es necesario considerar en los futuros estudios de evaluaci6n de impacto la
necesidad de tener un grupo de referencia. Esto podria lograse ampliando la
cobertura de la encuesta misma para incluir no beneficiarios, o identificar
encuestas extemas al ICBF (como las encuestas de salud del INS o del Ministerio
de Salud) que incluyan preguntas sobre uso de HCB y permitan identificar
beneficiarios y no-beneficiarios.
10.   Recomendaciones:
*  Es indispensable incorporar en el analisis de los resultados las dos altemativas
planteadas para que el estudio deje de ser una linea de base y se considere de tipo
evaluaci6n de impacto: incluir el grupo de referencia (no-beneficiarios) a partir de
la DHS-95 y conformar grupos de acuerdo al tiempo de permanencia en el
programa. Para tal fin se requiere conformar y contratar un grupo de trabajo



- 33 -                       Appendix A
(consultores) ya que el ICBF no cuenta con el personal requerido para realizar
estos analisis. El ICBF, por el contrario, cuenta con los recursos financieros para
tal fin.
* Debe definirse como politica del ICBF la participaci6n en encuestas extemas de
salud y nutrici6n para captar la poblaci6n no usuaria de HCB y poderla asi
incorporar en las evaluaciones futuras de impacto.
* Hechas las incorporaciones de las sugerencias dadas para poder tener resultados
reales de impacto y dada la importancia de dichos resultados en decisiones
politicas y estrategicas para la atenci6n del menor de estrato 1 y 2 seria muy
importante iniciar un proceso de divulgaci6n y analisis tanto al interior del sector
como en la sociedad civil y comunidades cientificas cuyos aportes y utilizaci6n de
dicha informaci6n se revertiran en beneficio del programa.
* Debe reflexionarse al interior del ICBF sobre la sostenibilidad del componente
evaluaci6n del impacto dentro del programa para lo cual es muy importante
definir una estrategia tecnica, administrativa y financiera para garantizarlo.
III. Sistema de Informacion Gerencial y su Aplicacion al Programa de Hogares
11.   Generalidades Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial.
El ICBF presenta los logros alcanzados a traves del programa SIG.
Especificamente indica que fue desarrollado para reevaluar procesos y que su
disefio consta de 11 subsistemas, los cuales se mencionan. Uno de los
subsistemas es Servicios, el cual se aplica para cualquier programa del Instituto,
incluyendo HCB.
* El SIG fue desarrollado por firmas extemas, entre ellas, Integra, y fue entregado
en 1992. Sin embargo, la central, las regionales y los centros zonales no tenian la
infraestructura fisica ni t6cnica para montar y manejar el sistema. Por lo tanto, ha
sido necesario dotarlos de los requerimientos adecuados.
* El sistema se montara en 245 puntos: 205 centros zonales, 25 regionales, 8
agencias y 1 nivel nacional central. Se espera que en julio de 1997 funcione en
cada centro zonal, y en diciembre del mismo aflo en todos los puntos
programados. Actualmente el sistema esta montado en 25 regionales y 8 agencias,
a quienes ya se les imparti6 capacitaci6n. El proyecto financi6 la compra de
hardware y software para la implementaci6n inicial del programa SIG.
* En cuanto al programa HCB y su relaci6n con el SIG, se plantea que es
responsabilidad de la subdirecci6n de Prevenci6n y la Divisi6n de HCB el definir
las variables del sistema y los reportes que deben producirse. Se capacit6 un



- 34 -                       Appendix A
equipo de personas de la subdirecci6n a nivel central, quienes seran los
responsables del seguimiento. La direcci6n del SIG esta encargada del apoyo de
sistemas a los equipos tecnicos de las diferentes direcciones del Instituto.
12.   Sistema de Informaci6n Gerencial y Monitorero del Programa de Hogares.
*  El subsistema de Servicios, que es uno de los 11 subsistemas del SIG, esta definido
tecnicamente para los programas de la Subdirecci6n de Protecci6n y Prevenci6n. Tiene
12 m6dulos: manejo de programas y servicios, manejo de entidades administradoras,
manejo de unidades de servicio (o unidades aplicativas), capacitaci6n, manejo de
suministros, contrataci6n, seguimiento de programas, manejo del menor en situaci6n
irregular, adopciones, atenci6n socio-legal al menor y la familia, manejo de prestamos a
unidades de servicio, liquidaci6n de cuentas.
*  El M6dulo de Seguimiento de Programas maneja la informaci6n mediante el registro de
variables de desempefio de las unidades aplicativas, de las entidades administradoras y de
su impacto sobre la comunidad. Sin embargo, actualmente no hay ina definici6n de las
variables que alimentan el sistema para el proyecto HCB. El ICBF esta definiendo estas
variables en base al documento de estandares. Se estA trabajando actualmente en las
variables relacionadas con el perfil de la madre comunitaria, y el perfil del contratista. Se
espera para Noviembre entregar la definicion de las variables de seguimiento y el disefno
de los reportes.
* Actualmente se ha capacitado a algunos funcionarios de la subdirecci6n y de las
regionales en el manejo del subsistema de Servicios.
13.   SIG - Subsistema de Servicios - Aplicaci6n al Programa de Hogares.
- El ICBF hace una presentaci6n formal del subsistema de servicios, con referencia
especial a su aplicaci6n al programa HCB. El subsistema de servicios estA
desarrollado para los programas-de servicios que ofrece el ICBF a traves de la
Subdirecci6n de Prevenci6n, entre los cuales estA el programa HCB.
* La estructura del sistema esta lista en un 90%, ya que se estan haciendo pruebas
con datos que permiten ajustar completamente el sistema.
* Durante 1996 se imparti6 capacitaci6n en las regionales y centros zonales que eran
piloto del proceso de descentralizaci6n. Durante 1997 se ha estado impartiendo
capacitaci6n a todas las demas regionales y centros zonales.
* El SIG, subsistema de Servicios, esta configurado por 9 m6dulos, los cuales se
dividen en dos grandes grupos:
O M6dulos Bisicos:
* Definici6n de programnas



- 35 -                       Appendix A
* Entidades contratistas
* Contrataciones
* Prestamos de vivienda
* Unidades de servicio
0 M6dulos de ejecuci6n o proceso:
* Seguimiento a programas
* Manejo de suministros
* Capacitaci6n
* Liquidaci6n de cuentas
* Para cada uno de los m6dulos se estA definiendo el tipo de seguimiento, la
periodicidad y sus respectivas variables. Actualmente, los m6dulos de Entidades
contratistas y de Capacitaci6on son los que tienen mas avanzado el proceso de
definici6n de variables: ya se ha identificado el perfil del contratista y el perfil de
la Madre Comunitaria respectivamente. Se espera que para Noviembre de 1997
este defmido el tipo de seguimiento y las variables.
*  Se preve que cada uno de los m6dulos genere un reporte. Actualmente se estan
definiendo los reportes, los cuales pueden ser a diferente nivel: la unidad de
servicio, la MC, el niflo. Se espera que tambien esten listos en Noviembre.
* La aplicabilidad del SIG como herramienta para el monitoreo del programa s6lo
se espera terminarla al finalizar el afio en la medida que aun no han sido definidas
las variables e indicadores que alimentaran el subsistema.
IV.  Servicios Del Programa de Hogares.
14.   Capacitaci6n.
14.1  Con el fin de hacer un anlisis mas competo del desarrollo del subcomponente de la
capacitaci6n a las Madres Comunitarias y demas actores del programa de Hogares se discuti6
con la Subdirectora de Prevenci6n y el Jefe de la Divisi6n de Hogares la necesidad de poder
tener un mecanismo centralizado de informaci6n que permita confrontar los Planes Anuales
de Capacitaci6n desde el inicio del Proyecto, los Planes Regionales y en su eventualidad los
Zonales frente a las ejecuciones tecnicas y fmancieras en terminos de contenidos,
capacitadores, materiales, y gastos de desplazamiento.
14.2  Es necesario hacer un analisis de aquellos resultados de la evaluaci6n que suponen
una relaci6n directa con la capacitaci6n a las madres y otros actores asi como confrontar con
los diferentes oferentes que a travis de la vida del Proyecto participaron en la capacitaci6n
(Institucional, ONGs., Universidades, Personas Naturales). La Coordinaci6n Operativa
facilitara los insumos de informaci6n para tal fin.



- 36 -                       Appendix A
15.   Vivienda
15.1  Teniendo en cuenta que en los filtimos dos afios de la vida del Proyecto el
subcomponente de vivienda ha sido desarrollado con una mayor calidad en termino de la
Asistencia Tecnica que se ha dado a nivel de las diferentes regionales asi como la
sistematizaci6n y seguimiento que de 6l se ha dado desde el nivel central se espera poder
hacer un analisis que permita confrontar el esquema de operacion tecnico, administrativo y
financiero de este subcomponente con los resultados que arrojaron la evaluaci6n en esta
materia.
15.2 La Divisi6n de Hogares y la Coordinaci6n Operativa del Proyecto facilitarAn la
informaci6n disponible a traves de la Sede Nacional y de la Previsora. Se observa sin
embargo que no existe una buena base de datos para poder obtener informacion tal como
hacia donde se inclina la destinaci6n de los creditos de vivienda a las madres comunitarias,
por ejemplo, es mas para baterias sanitarias, mas para cocinas, zonas de los nifios etc.
16.   Bienestarina
16.1  Dado que uno de los objetivos propuestos por parte del Proyecto eran apoyar al ICBF
en el anAlisis e implementaci6n de un sistema de mejora de producci6n y mercadeo de la
Bienestaria como insumo importante para la mejora de las condiciones nutricionales de los
nilos atendidos en el Programa se hace necesario evaluar cuales fueron las aciones y los
logros obtenidos al respecto. La mayoria de dichas actividades fueron desarrolladas en una
etapa inicial del Proyecto.
17.   Supervisi6n
17.1  La supervisi6n de los Programas de Hogares de Bienestar ha tenido varias etapas en la
vida del mismo. En algunos momentos de manera muy centralizada y sin una mayor
sistematizacion, en otras epocas muy asociada a las actividades de capacitaci6n y con una
mayor participaci6n de los niveles Regionales o Zonales. El Instituto proporcionarA al
equipo del Banco la informaci6n correspondiente a las actividades, sistemas e informaci6n
relevante en materia de supervisi6n en cada uno de los aspectos de la prestaci6n del servicio
(salud, nutrici6n, registro de salud, desarrollo infantil, vivienda) a nivel de los Hogares. En
especial quienes son los responsables, que metodologia utilizan, que sistema de registro, que
costos representan, etc.
V. Desarrollo y Fortalecimiento Institucional.
18.   Las actividades que el Proyecto apoy6 en las prioridades del Instituto en tomo al tema
de Desarrollo y Fortalecimiento Institucional se centraron en: (i) Desarrollo de una
Estrategia de Descentralizaci6n, (ii) Desarrollo e implantaci6n de un Sistema de Informaci6n
Gerencial como instrumento de Gesti6n, (iii) Reestructuraci6n del ICBF en todos sus niveles,
(v) incorporaci6n y desarrollo de nuevas areas en el quehacer del Instituto tales como la de
Derechos Humanos.



- 37 -                       Appendix A
19.   Con el animo de hacer un anAlisis de los beneficios que dichas actividades apoyadas
por el Proyecto han tenido en indicadores de gesti6n y de capacidad institucional, el Instituto
proporcionara. al Banco los siguientes documentos: Planes de Desarrollo e Informes de
Gesti6n desde la administraci6n de 1990. Los documentos de soporte y los respectivos
decretos de las reestructuraciones hechas durante el periodo 90-97, los informes y decisiones
sobre el tema descentralizaci6n del ICBF, las actas de la Junta Directiva sobre los aspectos
relacionados al prestamo 3201-CO.
VI. Administracion del Proyecto
20.   El equipo de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n Operativa del Proyecto present6 un balance
de los estados financieros del proyecto hasta la fecha, asi como una relaci6n de la mayoria de
los contratos celebrados a traves de la vida del Proyecto. Con el fin de hacer el analisis
esperado de costos y beneficios del proyecto, la Coordinaci6n preparara la siguiente
informaci6n: (i) de acuerdo a componentes, subcomponentes, actividades y categorias de
desembolsos, incorporando tanto los recursos provenientes del prestamo como aquellos
porcentajes establecidos para la contrapartida nacional; (ii) relaci6n de contratos
correspondiente a componente, subcomponente y categoria, sefialando el objeto principal del
contrato, el producto, costos, contratista, montos; (iii) basados en los SOEs relaci6n de cada
desembolsos por categoria y porcentaje de pr6stamo y contrapartida.
21.   La Coordinaci6n Operativa se hara responsable de garantizar la disponibilidad de
informaci6n y la articulaci6n con los diferentes equipos del Instituto para el trabajo de los
diferentes responsables por parte del Banco en la preparaci6n del ICR. De igual manera esta
Coordinaci6n se asegurara que el capitulo de informaci6n que el Gobiemo, tanto el ICBF
como el DNP y el Ministerio de Hacienda deben preparar de acuerdo a la comunicaci6n que
el Banco remiti6 al Instituto en el mes de enero del anio en curso.
VI. CONCLUSION GENERAL
22.   Por parte del equipo del Banco se espera que las respectivas observaciones y acuerdos
a que se llegaron durante las presentes reuniones se den en el transcurso del presente y
pr6ximo mes de Junio de manera tal que se pueda para esa fecha tener una primera discusi6n
de un primer documento.
23.   El equipo de direcci6n del Instituto present6 toda su disposici6n para proporcionar la
informaci6n, Ilevar a cabo los anilisis pertinentes y el total apoyo para que esta evaluaci6n
represente el esfuerzo conjunto del Banco y el Pais. De igual manera con el equipo de la
Unidad de Desarrollo Social del DNP se acord6 una total participaci6n por parte de ellos en
este ejercicio y de manera concreta el realizar reuniones peri6dicas para evaluar el avance de
las acciones.
Santa Fe de BogotA, Mayo 28, 1997






- 39 -                       Appendix B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT (Ln. 3201-CO)
INTRODUCCION
1.    El campo de acci6n del Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar, como Instituci6n
del sector social, tiene un compromiso con la poblaci6n objetivo - de la cual ocupa un gran
porcentaje la nifnez - presenta grandes problemas, y sus soluciones deben ser inmediatas y con
metas a corto y mediano plazo.
2.    Dentro de este contexto, se adquiri6 en 1990 el Prestamo 3201-CO con el Banco
Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento, para evaluar y reorientar actividades existentes de
los Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar e iniciar otras que permitieran la consolidaci6n,
cualificaci6n y cuantificaci6n, tanto de lo establecido, como de los nuevos proyectos en favor
de la Niniez, que garantizaran la efectividad del Programa de Hogares Comunitarios de
Bienestar durante su expansi6n.
3.    La meta principal del Proyecto de Nutricion y atenci6n de la Comunidad Infantil, traz6
acciones concretas para consolidar la atenci6n de los nifios, buscando asi una reducci6n de la
pobreza y el fortalecimiento de los Programas de atenci6n a la nifiez en Hogares Comunitarios,
con enfasis en las necesidades de nutrici6n, salud y desarrollo temprano de nifios entre los 2 y
6 afnos, pertenecientes a comunidades de bajos recursos.
4.    Todo lo anterior con el prop6sito de facilitar e integrar las politicas de atenci6n,
previstas por el ICBF y hacer mas eficaces los costos de operaci6n de los programas, con un
soporte tecnico y con mecanismos de planeaci6n, evaluaci6n y control.
5.    Otro de los objetivos del credito fue el fortalecimiento de la capacidad Institucional del
ICBF para monitorear y supervisar el Programa y de esta forma mejorar la cualificaci6n de los
HCB.
6.    Para alcanzar los fines descritos anteriormente, se identificaron las 4 categorias del
Proyecto:
*  Subprestamos para el mejoramiento de vivienda a las madres comunitarias.
* Adquisici6n de bienes.
* Asistencia tecnica (Consultoria y Coordinaci6n del Proyecto)
* Capacitaci6n a las madres y otros agentes comunitarios encargados del manejo de
alimentos, nutrici6n, mantenimiento del registro de salud, desarrollo infantil.
7.    Las categorias anteriores tuvieron su desarrollo en los siguientes componentes:
* Desarrollo de politica. Comprendi6 CAIPs, Estudios sobre la Bienestarina.



-40 -                        Appendix B
* Desarrollo Gerencial. Incluy6 la Organizaci6n y cambio Institucional, el Sistema de
Informaci6n Gerencial, y el monitoreo y evaluaci6n de Impacto de los HCB.
* Apoyo a los Servicios. Abarc6 por una parte la capacitaci6n a las madres y otros
participantes comunitarios en los temas de alimentaci6n/nutrici6n, registro de salud,
desarrollo infantil y administraci6n de los HCB. Por otra parte, los subprestamos de
vivienda a las Madres Comunitarias.
I. Beneficios del Prestamo
8.    A traves del desarrollo del credito y teniendo en cuenta los parametros enunciados
anteriormente, el ICBF, desarroll6 los siguientes programas:
* Reforma y Modernizaci6n del ICBF. Contrataci6n de servicios de consultoria que
apoyaran al ICBF en el disenio de una nueva estructura organica, definiendo e
implantando la nueva estructura del Instituto, tanto en el nivel central, como en los
niveles regionales y zonales, como instancias descentralizadas, teniendo en cuenta
sus relaciones con los diferentes entes territoriales: Naci6n, Departamento, Regi6n y
Municipio; proceso que termin6 en noviembre de 1995. Dentro del concepto de
modernizaci6n del ICBF, la reestructuraci6n aport6 los siguientes beneficios:
0 Agilidad en la toma de decisiones al desconcentrar el nivel central, mediante la
creaci6n de la Secretaria General Tecnica.
0 Creaci6n de una estructura responsable de la organizaci6n y desarrollo del
Sistema Nacional de Bienestar, funci6n asignada al ICBF desde 1979.
0  Profesionalizacion de la planta de personal del ICBF, especialmente en los
centros zonales e incorporaci6n de criterios de gerencia social para los cargos de
coordinadores zonales.
* Descentralizaci6n de servicios de Bienestar Familiar.
0 Con el apoyo del credito, este subproyecto fue desarrollado en su fase inicial a
traves de consultorias, teniendo como objetivo la definici6n del marco juridico
global de la descentralizaci6n de los Servicios de Bienestar, optando por la via
de delegaci6n de funciones a traves de convenios interadministrativos.
0 Otro logro de este Proyecto fue la revisi6n de procesos de cofinanciaci6n
departamentales y municipales para los Servicios de Bienestar. Es importante
resaltar que el proceso de descentralizaci6n esta avalando la politica de
cofinanciaci6n municipal como mecanismo para la ampliaci6n de coberturas,
cualificaci6n de programas existentes, lo mismo que otros nuevos mecanismos
acordes con las necesidades municipales.



-41 -                          Appendix B
0  El marco general de la politica del ICBF durante la ejecuci6n del credito, se
centr6 en las estrategias de descentralizaci6on de los servicios a traves de la
participacion comunitaria para la atenci6n a la comunidad infantil.
0  Finalmente se establecieron las propuestas a seguir en el campo fmanciero,
tales como administraci6n delegada de servicios, a traves de convenios con
entes territoriales y la posibilidad de constituir un fondo de cofinanciaci6n de
servicios de Bienestar Familiar para el apoyo de prop6sitos especificos. Se
logr6 fortalecer los principales lineamientos y politicas del Instituto en cuanto
al desarrollo familiar, participaci6n comunitaria, y en la consolidaci6n del
Sistema Nacional de Bienestar Familiar al igual que en el montaje del Sistema
de Informaci6n Gerencial.
0  Es de interes del Instituto continuar con el proceso de la descentralizaci6n, con
la iniciaci6n del disefio de instrumentos juridicos en el establecimiento de los
requisitos que deben cumplir los municipios para recibir la delegaci6n, y el
desarrollo e implementaci6n de las propuestas fmancieras, tecnicas e
administrativas de los servicios de bienestar.
Fortalecimiento y Cualificacion de los Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar
o  Dentro de las actividades programadas con los recursos BIRF, se orient6 este
proyecto en dos t6picos: de una parte, la capacitaci6n a las madres
comunitarias en aspectos de nutrici6n, salud, alimentaci6n, cuidados,
crecimiento y desarrollo del nifio, registros de medici6n talla-peso, dietas
alimentarias, relaciones afectivas. Dentro del componente de capacitaci6n a
las madres se pudo financiar la adquisici6n tanto de publicaciones, tales como
cartillas y folletos que apoyaran el proceso de conocimiento de las madres y
desarrollo de actividades con los nifios en los Hogares Comunitarios de
Bienestar, asi como la compra de material didactico que facilitara el proceso de
aprendizaje de los niMnos.
0  Dentro de la capacitaci6n a madres y agentes comunitarios, se apoy6 el
Programa de cooperativas para los Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar
Familiar. Las actividades realizadas a este respecto, estuvieron encaminadas
principalmente a fortalecer el proceso de constituci6n de entes cooperativos, a
partir de las Asociaciones de Padres usuarios de Hogares de Bienestar.
0  Para el logro de lo anterior se firmaron contratos con ONGs capacitadoras
sobre cooperativismo, se contrataron consultores tanto a nivel central como
regional para Ilevar a cabo el proceso de cooperativizaci6n. Como resultado de
lo anterior, se constituyeron 70 cooperativas.



- 42 -                       Appendix B
O Es importante notar que ma.s de un mill6n de nifios, de estratos uno y dos,
fueron beneficiados al recibir atencion de salud, nutrici6n y actividades de
enseflanza, a traves de la capacitaci6n que se ejecut6 con las madres y agentes
comunitarios.
Evaluaci6n de Impacto de los Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar
9.    El Proyecto Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar es uno de los proyectos mas
destacados del estado colombiano para mejorar las condiciones de desarrollo de los nifnos
menores de 7 aflos y para contribuir al mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida de sus familias
y su comunidad. El tamafno del proyecto, en terminos de cobertura y alcance, el volumen de
recursos invertidos anualmente y su significado social para la poblaci6n de los sectores mas
pobres, requerian un analisis cuidadoso y sistematico, tanto de su funcionamiento como de los
resultados o cambios que produce en los beneficiarios.
10.   Por lo anterior, uno de los mayores aportes del Banco, no s6lo por la financiaci6n del
Proyecto, sino por la materializaci6n dentro del contrato de prestamo, fue el de "Evaluaci6n de
Impacto de los Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar".
11.   Los resultados de la evaluacion, tuvieron una representatividad a nivel regional
analizando hacia donde estan focalizadas las acciones de los Hogares Comunitarios de
Bienestar Familiar. Se analizaron indicadores de calidad de las acciones, con actores como la
madre comunitaria, padres de familia, funcionarios de los Centros Zonales, usuarios del
programa y las caracteristicas socioecon6micas de los padres. Entre los indicadores del
estudio, se enfatiz6 el estado nutricional de los nifios y el desarrollo psicosocial, problemas de
salud, y la violencia intrahogar comunitario e intrafamiliar.
12.   Cuando se culmine el analisis e interpretaci6n de la evaluaci6n de impacto, el instituto
tendra sefialado las variables e indicadores que requieren de mayor atenci6n y recursos para
cualificar la atenci6n que se presta en los Hogares Comunitarios.
Proyecto de Informaci6n Gerencial, SIG
13.   Con la ayuda del prestamo, el ICBF en 1992 inici6 un proceso formal de unificaci6n de
criterios a nivel nacional, para la sistematizaci6n del proceso administrativo de Protecci6n y
Adopciones. La implementaci6n del sistema se apoy6 en la obtenci6n de informaci6n
oportuna a nivel zonal, regional y nacional para la toma de decisiones en la planeaci6n,
programaci6n, ejecuci6n, seguimiento y evaluaci6n del servicio. Inicialmente, se diseno un
sistema de informaci6n para uso del defensor de Familia, el cual tenia mucha parte manual, lo
cual implicaba una lenta consolidaci6n de la informaci6n, puesto que no se contaba con una
infraestructura de equipos de c6mputo para realizar esta labor. En 1994 se inici6 la
contrataci6n de firmas para el disefno y desarrollo del nuevo sistema de informaci6n, a la par
que se adquirieron equipos y software para el desarrollo del mencionado sistema y se



-43 -                         Appendix B
capacitaron los funcionarios del ICBF a nivel regional. La capacitaci6n de funcionarios fue
fmanciada con recursos del Banco a traves de la contrataci6n de Ingenieros de Sistemas,
quienes no solamente desarrollaron programas, sino que se desplazaron a las regionales para
tales efectos.
14.   Posteriormente, dentro del desarrollo del Proyecto SIG, se pretendi6 primordialmente
el proceso de Institucionalizaci6n de este, aprovechando la conformacion de la Oficina de
Informatica en la reestructuraci6n, financiada tambien con recursos BIRF.
En la actualidad se manejan a nivel de las Regionales subsistemas en Proteccion, Juridica y
Recursos Humanos (n6mina).
Plantas de Bienestarina
15.   Con recursos BIRF se contrataron, tanto personas juridicas como naturales para el
estudio del costo-beneficio de las plantas de Bienestarina.
16.   Como resultado se puede mencionar: El estudio de altemativas de la reformulacion de
la bienestarina con el objeto de liegar a cada usuario, de acuerdo con sus necesidades por
grupo etereo y hAbitos alimenticios por regi6n, al igual que disponer de varias f6rmulas que
permitieran contar con altemativas de sustituci6n de materias primas, con el fm de obtener
menores precios y diversificaci6n de la presentaci6n del producto. Dentro de estos estudios, se
concluy6 la necesidad de buscar altemativas en cuanto a planeaci6n, programacion y
establecimiento de adecuados canales de distribuci6n para la oportuna entrega del producto a
los usuarios.
Vivienda
17.   El objetivo general del programna Hogares Comunitarios de Bienestar es propiciar el
mejoramiento de las condiciones de vida de las familias y el desarrollo arm6nico de los nifios
menores de siete afnos, en los sectores de extrema pobreza.
18.   Es asi como desde el inicio del programa el ICBF estableci6 el otorgamiento de
prestamos a las madres comunitarias para adecuar los espacios fisicos, dirigidos a la atencion
de los nifios en su vivienda.
19.   Fue necesario encontrar fuentes de financiamiento para su desarrollo y asi, se lleg6 a la
cooperaci6n interinstitucional a traves del ICT, hoy INURBE, y como fuente de recursos el
Banco Mundial.
20.   La administraci6n de los recursos monetarios entregados por el BIRF se hizo a traves
de un contrato de Fiduciaria Mercantil celebrado entre el Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar
Familiar y Fiduciaria la Previsora, S.A., de conformidad con las exigencias del contrato de
emprestito.



- 44 -                       Appendix B
21.   A la fecha de cierre del prestamo 31 de marzo de 1997, se han girado 60.711 prestanos
de mejoramiento de vivienda, quedando pendiente por definir la continuidad del programa con
los recursos generados por rendimientos y recuperaci6n de cartera.
II. Derechos Humanos
22.   El ICBF con recursos del BIRF cre6 en Junio de 1995 el Proyecto de Derechos
Humanos con la estrategia de promover una cultura de Derechos en el Instituto, en las
Instituciones con las cuales contrata y en las unidades ampliativas de sus programas y
Proyectos. Adicionalmente, se traz6 la estrategia de construir un sistema de informaci6n sobre
los derechos de los nifnos, iniciando con los derechos a la vida y la libertad, con la proyecci6n
de un seguimiento a la aplicaci6n de la Convenci6n de los Derechos del Nifno.
23.   A travis de este Proyecto:
*  Se abord6 la tematica sobre Derechos Humanos y Nifiez, que permite a cualquier
Instituci6n del Estado disefar y elaborar una politica en favor de los derechos
humanos en general, y de los derechos humanos de la nifiez, en especial.
*  Se cre6 entre los funcionarios del ICBF el sentido de que los derechos humanos
forman parte de la vida cotidiana y se pueden incorporar en todos los programas y
proyectos.
*  Se comenz6 la ruta de trabajo para que los miembros del Sistema Nacional de
Bienestar se vinculen al trabajo con los derechos humanos.
*  Se otorg6 un lugar especifico al tema de los derechos humanos de la niniez, ante
varias agencias del Estado.
*  Se diseno el subsistema de registro. La funcion de este m6dulo es la de ingresar al
sistema casos de violaci6n o amenaza de violaci6n contra menores de edad. Como
resultado del disefio, se cre6 la ficha para el registro de actos o conductas
atentatorias de derechos a menores de edad y el respectivo software.
24.   Gran parte de los puntos anteriores, se concretaron en cartillas (Derechos Humanos y
Nifnez, La construcci6n de los Derechos Humanos desde el nacimiento hasta los 18 anlos, y El
derecho a la vida y la libertad en menores de 18 anios) que fueron publicadas y distribuidas a
todos los estamentos del ICBF en el Pais.
25.   Se visitaron 22 de las 25 Regionales para efectuar la instalaci6n del M6dulo de
Registro y la capacitaci6n del personal responsable de las actividades de sistemas y estadistica
en las regionales.



- 45 -                       Appendix B
26.   Como se puede observar a traves de este primer informe de la ejecuci6n tecnica del
credito, fueron muchos los beneficios obtenidos en pro del bienestar de los nifnos. El aporte
del Banco Mundial ayud6 de manera eficaz a concretar los programas establecidos por el ICBF
para la nifiez Colombiana. La experiencia obtenida por este tipo de cooperaci6n nos demuestra
la importancia de mantener una asistencia tecnica con el Banco Mundial con el fin darle un
seguimiento a los componentes objeto del proyecto y asi cualificar los servicios de bienestar.



I



- 47                   Appendix C
BIENE AR                        IKITIS HE LD
FAMILIAR             -        NISEI   K SEIE    UI
0001
Santaf6 de Bogota, D.C.                                              A _
Doctora
MARTHA LAVERDE
Especialista Proyectos Sector social               i   '  C I s 11)0
LA 3 HR Colombia
Misi6n Residente
Banco Mundial
Ciudad
Ref. Proyecto 3201 -CO
Apreciada Doctora Laverde:
De acuerdo conri'wnvwriido,ioievLainaw wniitiwdu  wiuIent-dvwumentoks.
1. Legalizaciones del PNUD Nos. 18, 19, 20, 21 y 22.
2. Observaciones al ICR.
Cordialmont.,
AMALIA SALAZAR DE ESTRADA
Coordinadora Operatva
Proyecto ICBF - BIRF
Anexo: Lo anunciado
Aaftol 2.1(150



- 48 -                     Appendix C
FAVIIIIAR               1     6    Bl - U
INSTflTDCUD E3 NUUhIIFIUIU
MEMORANDO
PARA: Dra. MARIA CECILIA CUARTAS ARANGO, Secretaia General T&cnica
ASUNTO: Respuesta memorando 037787 de noviembre 4 de 1897
FECHA: Santafe de BogotA, D.C.,
En atenci6n a su solicitud de la referencia atentamente enviamos para su
consideraci6n los comentarios al documento del Banco Mundial amplementation
Completion Reporf
El consenso de las Subdirecciones de Prevenc6n y Planeaci6n y la Coordinaci6n del
Proyecto es que a nivel general el inforne reconoce que los objetivos pactados en el
Staff Appraisal " Proyecto de Atenci6n y Nutrici6n Comunitaria Infail del 2 de mayo
de 1990, se cumplieron satisfactoriamente.
Sin embargo consideramos que el informe se presenta de una manera fragmentada
sin prorundizar en las explicaciones de las afirmaciones que sustenten el desarrollo de
las estrategias definidas en el marco del Proyecto y al contexto del Programa anterior
a la formulaci6n del proyedo. Estas situaciones se presentan en los siguientes
hechos:
* Resaltar la prevalencia del informe sobre los resultados de la Evaluaci6n de
Impacto del Programa, sin referir el desarrollo general del Proyecto durante sus
seis ahios de ejecuci6n.
*  No se citan las evaluaciones parciales realizadas con anteriondad, informaci6n de
la cual el Banco dispone porque fueron documentos suministrados y referidos en el
desarrollo del Proyecto.
* Si bien es cierto que el objetivo generaI del proyecto de ampliar a expansion del
programa con el proposito de disminuir Ids indices de pobreza del pais,
encontramos que los objetivos especificos incluyeron desarrollos institucionales
mas alla del mismo Programa HCB, lo cual dificulta separar los efectos del
Proyecto con el Programa.
*  La estructura del Proyecto se mantuvo a. pesar de los cambios en las directivas del
ICBF, durante el desarrollo del Proyecto. Sin desconocer los ajustes requeridos
durante la transici6n de los mismos. Por ejemplo la reprogramaci6n efectuada en
1995 cuando se incluy6 el apoyo a progTamas de Derechos Humanos,
descentralizaci6n y Microempresas.



- 49 -                    Appendix C
Respecto de los items 17 (pagina 9) y 42 (phgina 24) deben ser revisados ya que
el est.ndar del requerimiento del nivel educativo de la madre comunitaria
solamente se defini6 hasta 1996 cuando el Acuerdo 021 lo sefiala dentro del perfil
de la madre comunitana.
Con relaaon a las cifras financieras presentadas en el informe, se efectu6 un analisis
de las tablas consignadas en el mismo, llegando a las siguientes conclusiones:
* El valor reportado por el Banco Mundial como ejecutado estaba subvaluado, en
raz6n de que el Banco no habia incluido: parte de la Legalizaci6n No 18, y la
totalidad de las legalizaciones N- 19 a 22. de recursos ubicados en el PNUD, en
desarrollo del Convenio COL 941010. Por lo cual se procedi6 a clasificar cada uno
de los pagos relacionados en las legalizaciones mencionadas, de acuerdo con los
componentes de la tabla 8E UPROYECT COSTS BY COMPONENT AND ITEM" del
ICR.
* El valor que aparece en los exractos del Banco Mundial, pendiente de justificar
por US$ 11.140,14 en la recuperaci6n del Anficipo, (el cual tue legalizado ya en su
totalidad), obedece a diferencia en canasta de monedas; no obstante esta
diferencia disminuye la ejecuci6n por categotias
Por lo anteror, se efectuaron correcciones en las siguientes tablas:
Tabla 8E
Se encontraron subvaluadas las categorias: Bienes el valor consignado era 3.3, siendo
lo correcto 3.4, Asistencia tkcnica y Consultoria esaban en 2.2w. y-e  aor rea-ria
ejecuci6n es do 23, Capacitacl6n estaba en 4.5, siendo lo correcto 5.1. El valor de
Vivienda es el correcto en ambos casos(1'.7).
Por otra parte, al analizar el desgiose de los valores presupuestados en la tabla, los
valores expresados en [a columria "Proyecto totar deberian coincidir con la columna
final " Totalr.
Las diferencias son las siguientes:
COMPONENT                        TOTAL            TOTAL
PROYECT
2.2. MANAGEMENT INFORMATION    2.2                 3.0
SYSTEM
3.1.   TRAINING   +   TEACHING 10                  9.3
MATERIALS PROVISION
TOTAL BASE COSTS                 32.6              32.7
PHYSICAL    AN    D    PROCE 7.6                   7.5
CONTINGENCIES



- 5C -                     Appendix C
En cuanto a la distribuci6n de los suboomponentes por categorias, no se pudieron
analizar ya que en el Staff Appraisal no aparece dicho desglose.
Tabla 8C
Estaba sobrevalorada la inversi6n en las categorias: Bienes y, Asistencia Tecnica y
Consutoria, asi:  bienes en la ejecuci6n de 3.6 a 3.4 que fue el valor real. En
consultoria de 2.7 a 2.3.
El valor de capacitaci6n es correcto (5.1), de igual forme el de pr6stamos de vivienda
a las Madres comunitarias (11.7).
Recapitulando las observaciones anteriormente relacionadas es Importarrte plantear
las siguientes consideraciones:
Aunque los recursos del credito se constituyeron en un apoyo pars el desarrollo de los
programas del ICBF, el Proyecto diricilmente solucionaria la complejidad de la
situaci6n social del pais.
La ejecuci6n del Proyecto sirvi6 como punto de partida para estructurar de una manera
solida uno de los mas importantes programas sociales del pais como es el de HCS;
Se reconoce at invaluable valor de la experiencia. quo aport6 al desarrollo insttucional
del Banco Mundial, el ICBF y la Sociedad CGiI.
Es importante resaltar que la Evaluacl6n de Impacto sirve como base para analizar
intemamente el funcionamiento del prograrna HCB e incidir en las decsiories para
realizar ajustes en el Programa y en futuras intervenciones con ia poblaci6n objetivo.
La evaluaci6n de impacto es un instrumento para el seguimienitor supwiisni6n-del
Programa HCB. Las condiciones extemas de las pablaciones tales como vialedhia,
descentralizaci6n, desplazamiento y econ6micos como la globalizaci6n debbn ser
considerados como condicionantes par comprender la situaci6n social y la evoluci6n
de las familias usuarias de los programas.
En conclusi6n es importante profundizar en el analisis de las recomeArWiges
presentadas en el informe final del Banco Mundial conjuntamente con el lC9F.-asi
discutir y ilegar a acuerdos que pemitan avanzar en el mantenimiento y sostenibilk*d
de los programas del ICBF y prever las implicaciones politicas. tcnicas, financieras y
administrativas que se puedan interpretar de las afirmaciones incluidas en ei informe,
tal.como estA presentado.
Cordialmente,
NA X l    h      E                1    I     0o PRADA MURCIA
Subdirectora do' Prvenci6n                Subdirector de Planeacion
AMAUIA SALAZAR DE  ectoDA
Coordinadore Operative Proyecto Banco Mundial



- 51 -                   Appendix C
departamento
nocional de plhneoci6n
ItPfiblcea d. C01ombic             UDS - DISAL   R2  - 1 05
Santafe de Bogota, 10 de noviembre de 1997
Doctora
MARTHA LAVERDE                                     VICO  UWFIAL  i
Task Manager LC4CO                                   1dm tesidenr en Ce*rmbiu
BANCO MUNDIAL                                          NOV 11
La Ciudad
R EC I B I Da
Estimada Martha:
Con mucho interes he revisado el Implementation Completition Report, Colombia,
Community Child and Nutrition Project (Loan 3201 - CO), y coincidimos en varias
de las apreciaciones planteadas, especialmente en cuanto a que las metas
inicialmente propuestas se cumplieron parcialmente y sus resultados fueron
deficientes como consecuencia de ia falta de coordinaci6n en los esfuerzos
realizados y por los cambios del personal en la parte directiva del programa. Asi
mismo la falta de poder de convocatoria por parte del ICBF alrededor de los
objetivos del Programa, hicieron que las acciones generadas no estuvieran
acompanadas  de  compromisos  intersectoriales,  lo  cual no  facilit6  la
implementaci6n de los objetivos propuestos.
Sin embargo, vale la pena resaltar algunos resultados muy positivos dentro del
Programa, tales como el Sistema Computarizado Integral de Informaci6n
Gerencial (SIG), el cual sera una herramienta importante para el desempeflo
futuro del ICBF en planeamiento, programaci6n y presupuesto, asi como al
momento de hacer el seguimiento a los programas del ICBF y evaluar la gesti6n
del Instituto. El haber ensayado la introducci6n de nuevos temas como los
derechos humanos, los esfuerzos para la descentralizaci6n de los programas, la
formaci6n de cooperativas de padres de familia, los prestamos a las madres
comunitarias para mejora de los HCB y el nuevo papel que juega la mujer madre
comu'nitaria como lider de su comunidad son experiencias de gran valor.
En relaci6n con la Evaluaci6n de Impacto Proyecto Atenci6n y Nutrici6n
Comunitaria Infantil - BM ICBF, los resultados arrojados por esta Encuesta son
Calle 26 No. 13-19 Pisos 1-19
Conmutador 336 1600
Fax 281 3348
Santaf6 de Bogot6
Colombia
Sur America



- 52 -                   Appendix C
deportamento
nocional de ploneaci6n
l.PibialC-preroeJntes, si se tiene en cuenta la envergadura del Programa de Hogares
Comunitarios de Bienestar (HCB), los recursos destinados al mismo y los efectos
que se esperaba tuviera sobre el bienestar de los ninos; asi mismo, si se
comparan las metas con el impacto sobre la poblaci6n beneficiaria, el panorama
se presenta desconsolador. Para lograr los objetivos esperados sera necesario un
mayor esfuerzo y una gesti6n verdaderamente eficiente que Ilene las expectativas
y genere los impactos deseados alrededor de elementos como cobertura,
nutrici6n, salud, capacitaci6n y en los relacionados con el desarrollo sico-social de
los ninos beneficiarios del Programa, lo cual implica replantear, al menos, algunos
aspectos del programa y ensayar otras opciones.
A pesar de los resultados de la evaluaci6n, creo que con esta tambien se ha
logrado un gran exito dentro del Instituto, pues se incorpor6 la cultura de la
evaluaci6n, lo cual es un elemento fundamental para modificar los programas y
mejorarlos continuamente con el fin de obtener los mejores resultados.
Cordialmente,
OJ- l    f>A
MARIA DEL PILAR GRANADOS
Jefe Divisi6n Salud y Seguridad Social
Calle 26 No. 13-19 Pisos 1-19
Conmutador 336 1600
Fax 281 3348
SantafM de Bogot6
Colombia
Sur Am6rica



