Decument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z ,A  3Z I- -coC
Report No. 8028-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
MAY 2, 1990
HRuman Resources Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
"is document has a resticted distrbution and may be used by redpients only in the pefomance of
Tb    b " duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



CURREN^Y EQUIVALENCY UNITS
Currency Unit -    Colombian Peso (Col$)
US$1.00 =    Col$470 (April 1990)
Col$l.O0 =    US$0.002 (April 1990)
ACRONYMS
LAlPS        Pre-School Child Care Centers
(Centros de Atenci6n Integral al Pre-escolar)
CAJANAL      Social Insurance Fund for Public Sector Employees
(Caja Nacional)
DANE         rational Department of Statistics
(Departamento Nacional de Estadisticas)
DNP          National Planning Department
(Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n)
FNH          National Hospital Fund
(rondo Nacional Hospitalario)
HBI          Child Care Home
(Hogar de Bienestar Irfantil)
ICBF         Colombian Institute for Family Welfare
(Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar)
INS          National Institute of Health
(Instituto Nacional de Saludi
ISS          Social Security Institute
(Instituto de Seguridad Social)
MIS          Management Information Syst-m
MS           Ministry of Health
(Ministerio de Salud)
NGO          Non-governmental organization
SENA         National Training Institute
(Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje)
UNICEF       United Nations Internacional Children's Emergency Fund
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FoR OMCIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
COMMUNIT? CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
STAx? APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET ........ .       ..........................................  iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................................   iv
I. THE SECTOR ....................................................                       1
Sector Setting ................................................                       1
The Health Sector ...................                                                 2
Child Care and Nutrition ......................................                       4
Issues in HBI Expansion .......................................                       6
Government Strategy ...........................................   10
The Bank's Role ...............................................   11
II. THE PROJECT ...................................................   12
Project Origin  ...........................................                         12
Project Objec'ives and Content  ...........               ....................    12
Detailed Project Description  ............              .....................    13
Program Implementation  .......................................    17
Project Costs and Finar.cing ...................................   19
Procurement ...........................................  21
Disbursements ............................................  22
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ........                 ...................    22
Benefits and Risks  ..........................................    23
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .......                    .................    23
This project was appraised during May/June 1989 by a team comprising
Eleanor Schreiber (Mission Leader, LA3HR), Fernando Vio (Nutrition
Consultant) and Jairo Arboleda (Community Organization Consultant).
Earlier preparation missions, comprising staff and consultants, were led by
Robert Drysdale (LA3HR) and Xavier Coll (LA3HR) during late 1988 and early
1989.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
MIbl, of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
LIST OF ANNEXES
1  Poverty Indicators by Region .................................  25
2  Health Sector Financing and Expenditures (Public) ............  26
3  Child Development and Pre-scho3l Programs--by Provider .......  28
4  Comparative Costs of the CAIPs and the HBIs ..................  29
S  ICBF Organization Chart ......................................  30
6  HBI Investment Program, 1990-95 ..............................  31
7  ICBF Policy and Institutional Development--Letter of Intent
and Plan of Action .........................................  34
8  Terms of Reference for Project Studies .......................  38
9  The ICBF Training System .....................................  45
10  Financial and Administrative Procedures and Control for
the HBIs ...............................................       46
IL  Project Costs by Category of Expenditure .....................  47
12  Procurement Arrangement and Procurement Limits by Type ......   48
13  Estimated Disbursements ......................................  50
14  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....  51
ftks IBRD No. 18370R



- iii -
COLOMBIA
COMKUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
POPULATION
Population (millions)                               30
annual growth (Z)                                 1.8
Z urban                                           70
Females per 100 males
urban                                             110
rural                                             88
Total fertility rate                                3.2
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)            61
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                                1,220
POVERTY
Poverty line
(US$ per family of five)                          2,050
2 population in absolute poverty                    40
NUTRITION
Per capita calorie intake/day                       2,588
Prevalence of malnutrition
(2 children under age 5)                          12
HEALTH
Access to health care
( Z population)                                     75
Population per physician                            1,900
Population per hospital bed                         600
Access to safe water
urban (Z population)                              89
rural (Z population)                              30
EDUCATION
Adult Literacy (2)                                  88
Primay school enrollment
rate (2 of age-group)                             80
Data drawn from the World Bank's 'Social Indicators of
Development 1988" and other sources, mainly for 1986-88.



- iv -
COLOMBIA
COMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Colombia
Benpficiary:          Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF)
Am'unt:               US$24.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 17 years, including a 5-year grace period,
at the Bank's standard variable rate
Project Objectives
and Description:   The project forms a key part of the Government's poverty
reduction program and aims mainly to strengthen an ongoing
program of home-based child care. This program, the HBI,
caters for nutrition, health and early childhood
development needs of children aged two through six in low-
incom:  urban communities.  'Community mothers', chosen by
parents, care for about 15 children each in their homes.
The program is managed nationally by the Colombian
Institute of Family-Welfare, the ICBF. The broad
objectives of t.he project, which supports a six-year
expansion program for the HBIs, are to enhance and maintain
the quality and effectiveness of the program, in particular
to: improve the cost-effectiveness of ICBF operations;
strengthen the technical support, planning and program
monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the ICBF; and
improve HBI services principally through provision of
training and home upgrading support, during program
expansion. The project includes three corresponding
components.
The Policy Development Component will finance a study to
determine future .management and financing arrangements for
ICBF's center-based program of child care which predates
the HBI, is more costly, and is i.sufficiently targeted on
the poor; and ICBF budget support for this program will be
reduced by 302 as an interim measure during project
implementation. This component will also finance a study
to assess the potential for the private production and
marketing of an important food supplement, Bienestarina,
currently supplied and distributed by the ICBF. The
Management Development Component will finance technical
assistance and equipment to strengthen ICBF's planning and
monitoring capabilities by introducing a new Management
Information System (MIS), to conduct an impact evaluation
of the HBI program, and to coordinate HBI program
implementation. The Service Support Component will finance
equipment and materials to introduce a regular system of
training for community as well as ICBF staff participating
in the HBI program, and credits for minor upgrading of
community mothers' homes, to ensure acceptable standards
for providing day care.



Benefits:             Through the expansion program for the HBIs, over one
million of the country's poorest pre-school children will
benefit in the near term from improved nutrition and
health status and exposure to pre-school learning
activities. The economic and social benefits of the
approach are multiple. Investment in nutrition and early
education for disadvantaged children will have a direct
impact on their ability to take advantage of subsequent
opportunities for schooling and employment. For the
mo_hers of the children enrolled in the program, the
option will be availa'le to seek additional remunerative
employment. For community mothers, the program will
provide modest income and home improvement. Finally, the
program serves as a catalyst for community participation
and mobilization in support of other self-help strategies
for health, education and slum improvement.
Risks:                The major project risk is that the HBI program may
outstrip the managerial and financial capacities of ICBF,
under the pressures of continued expansion. The
managerial risk will be minimized uy ICBF's
implementation of well-conceived management and staffing
arrangements, by designation of additional program
coordinating advisors, and by measures to strengthen
community-level support and managerial capacity for the
program. The financial risk will be reduced by the
implementation of measures to improve ICBF efficiency and
to target ICBF subsidies in favor of the poor and the
HBIs, and away from more costly care. Moreover, any
necessary adjustments in the pace of program expansion
would be effected through annual program reviews.



- vi -
Estimated Costs: a/
------------US$ Millions-------.-
Local      Foreign       taa
Policy Development
Bienestarina Study          0.2         0.0         0.2
CAIPS Study                 0.1         0.0          0.1
Subtotal                    0.3         0.0         0.3
Institutional
Development
Institutional
Assessment                0.1         0.0          0.1
MIS                         0.2         0.8          1.0
Evaluation                  0.5         0.0          0.5
HBI Program Coord.          0.3         0.0          0.3
Other Studies               0.3         0.0          0.3
Subtotal                    1.4         0.8          2.2
HBI Service
Support
Training                    7.5         2.5         10.0
House Upgrading            15.1         5.0         20.1
Subtotal                   22.6         7.5        30.1
Total Base                 24.3         8.3         32.6
Physical Contingencies      0.2         0.1          0.3
Price Contingencies         6.3         1.0          7.3
Total Cost                 30.8         9.4         40.2
a/ Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are negligible.
Financing Plan:                            ------        US$ M4.11ions
Local     Foreign        Total
Government of Colombia    16.0          0.2         16.2
IBRD                       14.8         9.2         24.0
Total                      30.8         9.4         40.2
zzzz = _ =   _
Estimated Disbursement           --------US$ millions--------
IBRD Fiscal Year:         1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
Annual          1.2      2.4     5.3     6.0      5.3     3.8
Cumulative      1.2      3.6     8.9    14.9    20.2    24.0
Map: IBRD No. 18370R



COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
Sector Setting
1.1      Over the past 25 years, Colombia has experienced significant
economic gains and diversification. With . growth rate of about 4 percent
during 1988, recent performance has been relatively stronG. Social progress
has bLen impressive over the last decades.  Between 1964 and 1985, the
average population growth rate dz-opped from 3.7 percent to 1.8 percent; and
maternal and infant mortality declined appreciably over the period (from 254
to 107 deaths per 100,000 births, and from 81 to 61 deaths per 1,000 live
births, respectively). These improvements are explained in part bv rapid
urbanizat'on (the urban population share increased from 30 percent to
70 percent during 1950-85) and by increasing participation of females in the
educati3n system and in the work force. Some 80 percent of the relevant age
group, equally divided between boys and girls, attended primary schools in
1987, representing a doubling in enrollments since the 1960s; and women's
particIpation in employment, while still largely (about 60 percent) in
informal sector occupations, rose from about 20 percent to 30 percent
between 1965 and 1985. Despite these advances, the distribution of the
economic and social benefits of growth rcmains highly skewed, and severe
poverty continues to affect a significant share of the population.
1.2      Based on household and proxy income indicators, the National
Department of Statistics (DANE) currently classities about 40 percent of the
population as living in conditions of absolute poverty, with some 20 percent
living in conditions of misery.1 This general situation is confirmed by
income indicators which also classify 40 percent of the population as poor,
based on household incomes (including income in kind) of US$2,050 anciually
per family of five. The worst poverty is associated with urban slums and
squatter areas. The quality and coverage of basic services is limited or
lacking in these highly populated areas, and historically vulnerable
segments of the population, moqt notably, infants, young children and
pregnant and lactating women, are at particularly high risk of malnutrition
and illness.
1.3      Living conditions in low-income, urban districts are typically
unhygienic owing to inadequate water supply, sanitary facilities, sewerage
and health services. The low standards are closely essociated with high
1/  DANE indicators include three measures related to shelter and
sanitation and two related to income. Households with less than
satisfactory conditions in one category are classified as poor
(40 percent of the population); and households with less than
satisfactory conditions in two or more categories are classified as
living in conditions of misery (20 percent of the population). Annex 1
presents DANE results by region based on 1985 census data. Discussion
on the limitations of the current data base employed by DANE to measure
poverty are presented in "Colombia: Social Programs and Poverty
Alleviation: An Assessment of Government Initiatives", World Bank,
1988.



prevalence of respiratory and intestinal infections. The poorest 20 percent
of the population runs a further risk of malnutrition and related health
problems due mainly to inadequate income: in this group, as high as
90 percent of disposable income is allocated for food, but a substantial
protein and overall calorie deficit (both of an order of one third) persist;
and a lack of ready access to health services, compounded by the inability
to pay for drugs and diagnostic tests, leads to a systematically higher
prevalence of illness than in other population groups. Morbidity among the
poorest 20 percent of the population is 1.2 times that of the rest of the
population. Among those living in conditions of absolute poverty, a
particularly heavy burden is also placed on women: an estimated 25 percent
of poor households are headed by women reporting income substantially below
the minimum wage; and within these households fertility, and maternal and
infant morbidity are also higher than among the population at large. Within
this group, children tend to suffer disproportionately from lack of
protection, accidents, violence, and neglect.
1.4      Low educational attainment is also commonly associated with
poverty. In 1985, about 30 percent of Colombia's 40 percent poor were
classified as illiterate, compared with 12 percent of the population at
large; 44 percent of school-aged children from poor households did not
attend primary school, compared with 20 percent in the population at large.
Formal pre-school and institutional nutrition programs are especially
beneficial for poor children, to help ensure normal development prior to
entering the formal school system. However, only 10 percent of children
from the poorest 20 percent of the population are served by such programs.
The Health Sector
1.5      Organization and Structure.  Cclombia's health sector comprises
three parts: (i) the public health system; (ii) the social insurance
system, including the Social Security Institute (ISS) for private employees,
the Social Insurance Fund for public sector employees (CAJANAL) and smaller
funds for other groups; and (iii) the private system. Under the Ministry of
Health (MS), public health services are provided at the departmental (state)
and local levels, through hospitals and health centers and posts. Three
main decentralized institutes are attached to the MS: the National
Institute of Health (INS), which is responsible for production and control
of vaccines and for research; the National Hospital Fund (FNH), which is
responsible for hospital investments and maintenance; and the Colombian
Institute for Family Welfare (ICBF), which is responsible for family and
child welfare services, including nutrition. While the Minister of Health
approves the budgets of the INS and FNH, these agencies operate
autonomously, without formal coordination with MS staff or line units. ICBF
is both financially and administratively autonomous of the MS.
1.6      Coverage.  The target group for the public health system
encompasses 75 percent of the population (social security and private health
systems together serve only 25 percent of the population). Currently,
however, a third of the target group (25 percent of the population) lacks
access to public health care services. The shortfall is explained largely
by an absence of outreach capacity and a shortage of staff and consumables
(drugs and other supplies) at the local levels. The critical question
facing the public sector is how to provide effective health services for the
remaining 25 percent of the population--the majority of which is poor. A
promising response is embodied in a June 1989 decree of the Minister of



Health, which established community committees to manage local health care
services. This delegation of responsibility is accompanied by a
restructuring of the system that includes provision of outreach services.
Both measures are intended to improve the respons_veness of the public
health system to local demand. Under the new structure, health teams will
continue to be based at centers and posts. but field teams will also be
mounted to serve individual communities on a rotating basis.
1.7      Finance and Expenditure.  The health system is financed through
several sources. Social security is funded through worker-emp'oyer
contributions, the government budget, sales of services, investment earnings
and donations. The public health service is financed through the budget on
the basis of a national revenue-sharing scheme, earmarked departmental and
municipal taxes, and through fees collected for selected services. The ICBF
is financed apart from the rest of the system, primarily through a 3 percent
payroll tax on enterprises. In the public sector, excluding the ICBF, about
45 percent of funds were allocated for public service while 55 percent were
allocated for social security services in 1988. This split helps to explain
the shortfalls in provision of primary care.
1.8      Public expenditure on health and related services in Colombia
amounted to about 3 percent of GDP in 1989 (Annex 2). The addition of
private expenditures, estimated at 40 percent of total, raises this share to
5 percent of GDP. In terms of Government budget, health constituted an
increasing share during 1985-88, rising from 9 percent to 12 percent.
However, plans announced in 1987 to raise expenditure on basic health
services during 1987-90 have not materialized: real per capita erpenditure
declined by about 12 percent (to US$43 in 1987 prices) during 1985-88.
Increases in civil service salaries and, in particular, in overall costs at
secondary and tertiary levels of the public health and social security
systems, have constrained resources available for key, basic health inputs.
Renewed efforts to improve basic health services, including financing, are
embodied in the current restructuring of the system (para. 1.6).
1.9      In contrast to public health resources, ICBF resources grew
appreciably in 1988. Congress approved an increase in the enterprise
payroll tax rate (from 2 percent to the current 3 percent) allocated for the
Institute. The additional resources will help support expansion of a
program of community child care and nutrition, Child Care Homes (HBIs), in
poor urban areas. Despite objections on grounds of economic efficiency and
equity, both to earmarked revenues and taxes on payrolls, the financial
authorities chose this financing option for the ICBF because the budget
process has been historically unpredictable and inefficient in Colombia.
Actual annual allocations have also tended to remain well below annually
approved program targets.2 Accordingly, in view of the benefits of the HBI
program, in terms of improved child care and nutrition, household income for
the providers, and the opportunity of mothers with participating children to
engage in remunerative employment, Government took the decision to increase
the payroll tax to ensure stable and adequate financing for the ICBF. The
increased resources were made available to the ICBF in mid-1989.
2/ In early 1989, Congress approved a draft law to strengthen the
flexibility of the budget and to streamline budget procedures. Once
introduced, this law is expected to reduce substantially rigidities in
the budget process.



-4-
Child Care and Nutrition
1.10     Responsibility for child care and nutrition is principally lodged
with the ICBF. This Institute, established in 1968, supports programs in
school feeding, day care including feeding, legal assistance, and other
community development artivities with a focus on pre-school children, aged
less than one to seven years. It currently serves directly, or in conzert
with other agencies, over two million infants and children. Other ICBF
target groups include the homeless, older juveniles, wards of the court, and
the ,hysically and mentally handicapped. Maternal, neo-natal and infant
care is provided mainly through the public health system and voluntary
agencies but is complemented by ICBF nutrition and day-care programs. The
Ministry of Education is a secondary provider of support for young children,
mainly in the form of pre-school education programs, which enrolled nearly
40G,000 in 1939. The Ministries of Health and Education and the ICBF also
serve aboit 1.5 million infants and children less directly through a system
of family health training (Annex 3 provides data on child development
prograf,is).
1.11     The ICBF first became a provider of day care during 1972-74, when
it e4stablished about 100 centers for children under the age of seven. At
present, this center-based care is given in well-equipped Pre-school Child
Care Centers, or CAIPs, by tr--ned personnel (including health workers,
nutritionists and educators)    3rvices are provided mainly free of charge
in some 1,100 centers for about 280,000 children. Since the late 1970s,
criticism of the CAIPs emerged: they are relatively costly; they provide
services largely for a middle- rather than a low-income clientele; and they
do not foster significant community involvement. These outcomes led to wide
experimentation with new models for day care and nutrition programs that
vwould serve poor families in the urban slums more directly. UNICEF and
selected foundations, including Bernard van Leer and Save the Children,
provided assistance in this endeavor, which promoted both community
participation and the de-institutionalization of services. In a search for
low-cost approaches that could be replicated on a wide scale, experiments
with "home-based" programs were carried out in several locations. By the
mid-1980s, EBIs emerged as the most successful model.
1.12     The HBI program, launched on a large scale in 1987, is a creative
response to resolution of several poverty issues. It combines feeding of
pre-school children, aged twa to six in low income urban neighborhoods, with
community-managed day care. Related health monitoring and early childhood
development services for preparation for effective participation in primary
schooling, are built into the model.
1.13     ;CBF social workers promote and support the establishment of HBIs
in marginal urban neighborhoods based on community interest and need.
Criteria, based on income, population and local service standards, are used
by the ICBF to identify the target clientele, with priority given to the
poorest neighborhoods. Thereafter, participation in the program is self-
selective. Groups of interested parents choose a "community mother' to care
for 15 children in her home. No special qualifications must be met by the
community mothers, though the majority is literate. Initial training
provided by the ICBF in nutrition, child care and protection helps to
confirm the suitability of the women selected. The ICBF also pays the
community mothers a small monthly stipend (equivalent to US$50) and arranges



loans to enable the community mothers to upgrade their homes to minimum
standards for provision of day care (to install or extend roofs and wooden
or concrete floors, and to provide toilets as needed). To date, the hon:e
upgrading has been financed by the Low-Income Housing Credit Institute.
This Institute is a conduit for housing and home upgrading under government
investment programs. In addition, the ICBF finances equipment and materials
for each home (including a stove, children's furniture, kitchen equipment,
water filters), plans to finance simple learning aids (e.g., scissors and
paper), and provides foodstuffs to meet well over half the average daily
nutritional requirements of participating children. Specifically, the ICBF
m.anufactures and distributes Bienestarina, a domestic nutritional supplement
commonly baked in bread form, and finances the provision of other fresh
foods purchased locally. In most locations, ICBF helps community leaders
purchase fres) foods at wholesale prices by contracting with a network of
community suppliers.
1.14     The HBIs are administered through a three-tiered community
structure: first, parents of children enrolled in 10-15 centers form a
parents' association; second, parents at each center elect three
representatives to join a local assembly (with 30-45 members); third, the
assembly elects five parent representatives to serve as its board of
directors. The parents' associations, through the boards, manage the ICBF
funds as well as nominal contributions from parents, used to pay community
mothers' stipends and to purchase food. A wide range of private and public
agencies (including universities, secondary schools, government agencies,
and NGOs) also contributes supporting services on an ad hoc basis, including
assistance to the community mothers in the homes, or provision of training
in technical and managerial skills related to HBI services.
1.15     By mid-1989, ove, 32,000 HBIs were operating, serving 500,000
children. Notably, turnover among community mothers has been negligible, to
date. By all accounts the program has been remarkably successful and demand
for places is high. An evaluation, carried out by consultants to the ICBF
and completed during 1989, confirmed the viability of the HBIs as a low-cost
mechanism to reach children in the poorest households, especially in urban
areas. The main benefits of the program extend to several client groups:
the participating children are benefitting from adequate and generally
improved day care and feeding; the community mothers are benefitting from
increased income as well as home improvements and skills upgrading; and
parents, especially the mothers of participating children (often the only
source of family income), are benefitting from the opportunity to leave the
home to pursue remunerative employment. More generally, the community is
benefitting through the social and technical skills acquired by children and
adults through participation in the program.
1.16     In view of the early success of the HBIs, the ICBF plans to expand
the program to reach the entire target group of children aged two to six in
the lowest income brackets, estimated currently at over a million. The
Institute has extended' its HBI expansion and investment plan to cover the
six-year period 1990-95 and secured the bulk of required financing through
the increase in the payroll tax rate for ICBF (para. 1.9). In zonstant
terms, the average annual costs of program expansion will represent about
half of total ICBF expenditures and will increase the share of ICBF
expenditures in total public expenditure on health from an estimated
22 percent in 1988 to about 26 percent by 1995 (based on an estimated
ii.crease in overall health expenditure of 5 percent per annum during the
same period).



-6-
Issues in HBI Expansion
Policies
1.17     The significant expansion planned for the HBI program raises policy
issues requiring early resolution by the ICBF. The most critical of these
are issues related to the need to reduce ICBF subsidies to the CAIPs in
favor of the HBIs and the poor, and vo improve the efficiency of production
and distribution of Bienestarina. The related question of appropriate
sources of financing for the ICBF, e.g., whether through continued use of
the payroll tax or through budgetary and other provisions, would also need
to be assessed by Government in the context of the general qurstion of use
of earmarked taxes.
1.18     CAIPs.  The CAIPs are relatively costly, geographically
inaccessible to a significant share of lower-income families, and nearly
fully financed by the ICBF. Expenditure on the CAIPs program amounted to
over half of the ICBF budget prior to 1987 and still accounted for about
35 percent of the budget during 1988, despite the significant growth in
HEBIs. While the share of the CAIPs program in the ICBF budget will decrease
as the HBI program expands, ICBF budget projections prepared during early
1989 maintained the current level of CAIPs' financing.
1.19     The quality of the CAIPs program is high.  However, the average
cost per child in 1989, US$33 per month, is three times the cost per HBI
beneficiary in 1989 at US$11 per month (Annex 4). The elevated costs of the
CAIPs preclude expansion of the program to the priority, ICBF target group.
CAIPs' salaries are especially high and represent 67 percent of total
expenditures; foodstuffs, 21 percent; and other materials and supplies,
12 percent. The share in total personnel costs for administration, at about
25 percent, is excessive.
1.20     Children from the lowest-income families are not deliberately
excluded from the CAIPs. However, the centers are predominantly located in
middle- and lower-middle income neighborhoods. Based on available data,
about 45 percent of CAIPs' children come from low-income households (less
than US$2,050 equivalent annually, per family of five) while 55 percent come
from middle income families. Virtually free provision of the service by the
Government to middle-income families is unduly regressive: only 2 percent
of the budget is covered through payments by families.
1.21     The high level of government subsidization of CAIP's beneficiaries
led the National Planning Department, DNP, to propose substantial reductions
in the share of ICBF financing for CAIPs over the next several ye&rs. As a
result, the ICBF has introduced requirements to raise fees and enforce
collection. It is also exploring options for gradually transferring
responsibility for CAIPs to other public or private entities, including the
local government and the private voluntary sector, in line with more general
government policy on decentralization.
1.22     Bienestarina.  An important contribution of the ICBF in
supplementary feeding is the provision of Bienestarina. Bienestar4na is a
nutritional supplement made of wheat, rice or maize flour (60 percent),
soybean flour (30 percent), low-fat powdered milk (8 percent), and minerals
and vitamins (2 percent). The ICBF provides Bienestarina to poor groups at
nutritional risk (infants, pre-school and school-aged children, pre ant ,d



nursing women and the elderly). The product enjoys widespread acceptance in
poor communities. Demand for Bienestarina is increasing, and questions of
cost-effectiveness of future production and distribution need to be
addressed.  Slight variations in composition also need to be considered in
view of differences in typical diets across the country and in nutritional
needs among different population groups.
1.23     Bienestarina is produced in three domestic plants, managed as
public enterprises by the ICBF. Production capacity is about 27,500 tons
and should be sufficient to meet requirements through the early 1990s.
However, the ICBF lacks expertise as a public enterprise manager, and delays
with provision of inputs and finance, together with problems of distribution
and plant management, have resulted in a supply lag. While production
increased from 7,500 tons in 1986 to about 13,300 tons in 1988, it
represented only 60 percent of programmed production over the period. Under
the expanded HBI program alone, incremental requirements for Bienestarina
would reach an estimated 8,000 tons by 1994. In the immediate future,
measures are needed to improve efficiency of production and distribution.
Over the next few years, new modalities for expanding Bienestarina output
also need to be assessed. Alternative arrangements would need to take into
account the balance of payments effect of local production (nearly all
current ingredients are imported) as well as comparative efficiency of
government versus private sector production. An in-depth evaluation of
production and marketing methods should thus be carried out to determine
future arrangements. Private sector production and marketing through
commercial channels should figure among alternatives.
1.24     The acceptability of Bienestarina is explained largely by its high
nutritional value and relatively low cost, US$0.60 per Kg., compared to
US$1.80 per Kg. for powdered milk. (All basic commodities, including
foodstuffs, are traded at market rates in Colombia; no general consumer
subsidies are in effect.) However, additional studies are required to
establish the real food intake of users of the product, most notably, the
children attending HBIs (as opposed to studies that measure the availability
of food), to assess the substitution effect of use of Bienestarina and to
determine appropriate adjustments in Bienestarina content, including
possible needs for micro-nutrients.
Management
1.25     The ICBF structure (Annex 5) includes a central office as well as
regional, zonal and local offices. The central office, guided by a national
board of directors, is responsible for policy development and legislation,
overall planning and coordination of national activities, and technical
supervision of regional programs. Twenty-six regional offices support
planning and program implementation at the local levels; and about 175 zonal
local offices directly implement, or support implementation of, ICBF
programs. This organizational structure is basically adequate to support
the ICBFs' activities over the medium-term. However, increasingly
decentralized responsibilities need to be clarified; and additional staff
and strengthened planning and programming will be required to support the
HBI expansion over the next few years.
'..26    Structure and Staffing.  The ICBF initiated a process of structural
and staff review during 1988 which yielded preliminary recommendations on



- 8 -
modest restrurturing at the central and regional levels and straight-line
projections of staff needs based on existing standards. While useful as an
initial input to analysis, the results did not consider fully the changing
nature of ICBF programs and responsibilities, in particular, responsibil-
ities for guiding large, decentralized efforts, such as the HBI program.
The ICBF needs to conduct further study to identify institutional options
for a strengthened role as a facilitating rather than an implementing
agency.
1.27     The ICBF currently employs about 4,500 staff:  500 in the central
office; 1,700 in the regions; and 1,900 in the localities (an additional 400
are assigned outside the regular structure, including 150 at the
Bienestarina plants). Professional and managerial staff number 1,300;
technician-level staff, 900; and administrative and support staff, 2,300.
In general, staff of the Institute are characterized by a high degree of
commitment and adequate overall skill levels and distribution. However, the
HBI expansion will necessitate a staffing increase in both technical and
administrative posts, mainly at the local level. To avert future
overstaffing, flexible arrangements for employing and deploying both current
and potential staff need to be adopted. Accordingly, the ICBF plans to
contract experienced staff as well as to establish new permanent posts. It
is also exploring potential for regularizing non-governmental organization
(NGO) and other local support for the program.
1.28     Planning.  Planning and programming of development of ICBF
activities, including the HBI program, have been conducted in the past on
the basis of short-term expectations on available resources. With assurance
that the budget for HBI expansion and other ongoing ICBF programs will be
available over the foreseeable future, the ICBF needs to turn its efforts to
longer-term planning and programming. Annual updates of local needs
assessments based on DANE data on poverty, used to identify the target group
of children at risk for malnutrition or otherwise inadequate home care,
would continue to constitute the core information for HBI planning. These
would need to be complemented with additional data on the target group.
Strategic planning will also require a system for quality and financial
control, which would endure beyond the expansion phase. With these needs in
view, the ICBF completed a proposal for a comprehensive Management
Information System (MIS) during early 1989, which was judged to be
appropriate by the Bank, and would be introduced over the coming months.
1.29     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Regular monitoring and evaluation of
the HBI program have not yet been introduced but will also be required to
support the broad expansion planned. The information needed to monitor
program coverage, and allocation and use of resources, can be included
economically in the internal MIS to be introduced. In addition, a system to
assess multiple outcomes of the program is needed to measure overall
effectiveness, i.e., to determine how successful the program is in
alleviating poverty and its effects. Comparative information on households
participating and not participating in the program could serve to identify
key outcomes and potential needs for improving program effectiveness. Of
particular interest is the effect on HBI children and their families of the
program on nutrition levels, health expenditures, health status, school
attendance, female employment, and family leisure, consumption and
expenditure patterns. The mounting of household surveys and analysis of
results, are beyond the current expertise of the ICBF. Support would need



-9-
to be provided by DANE, the National Department of Statistics, -hich has
considerable survey and evaluation experience and an interest in improving
systems for collecting and analyzing socio-economic statistics.
Service Delivery and Support
1.30     The advantages of the HBI program are concentrated in its economic
provision of integrated child care and development, *'hich is designed to
merge feeding with pre-school development and health monitoring. Added
strengths center on the high level of community participation required and
achieved; on the attentiox to lower-income families in the community,
primarily achieved through the geographic focus of the program on urban qlum
areas; and on inter-agency cooperation. While present services are judged
favorably by beneficiaries, quality is uneven; and the ongoing expansion is
likely to place additional strains on the HBI system. In order to
consolidate gains and improve the overall quality of nutritional, health and
edutcational inputs, service elements require reinforcement and adjustment,
and community mothers and others, more systematic training.
1.31     Delivery.  Among the three main services provided through the HBIs,
the nutrition component, which received emphasis in the early phase of
program expansion, is the most developed. The health monitoring and early
childhood development services have lagged, due bota to inadequate
arrangements and resources.
(a) Nutrition. The Bienestarina input and additional foodstuffs are
judged sufficient to meet 60 percent to 70 percent of a child's
daily needs. Training, to improve the nutritional knowledge of
community mothers and their ability to monitor growth of HBI
children and to ensure cleanliness in food handling, is still
needed. The 1990 ICBF budget for the HBIs includes financing for
anthropometric equipment to improve growth monitoring.
(b) Health Monitoring. The absence of adequate basic services and
effective referral systems in some low-income areas reduces the
effectiveness of HBI services, in particular the benefits of
improved nutrition. Despite explicit requirements that all
children be fully vaccinated prior to entering an HBI, some
30 percent are estimated to be less than fully immunized; and for
many ill or malnourished HBI children, access to follow-up health
care is limited or lacking. The recent decisions to manage health
services on a community basis and to introduce outreach services
(para. 1.6) should help to improve care over the medium to longer
terms. In the interim, special arrangements are being made with
the Ministry of Health. These are designed to ensure that required
services are provided prior to the entry of each child in the HBI
program and to meet the basic and follow-up health requirements of
the HBI children, thereafter.
(c)  Child Development.  Evidence from developed and developing
countries argues compellingly that low-cost interventions in early
childhood development, together with adequate nutrition and health
services, positively affect children's readiness for school as well
as school performance, caregiver skills and knowledge, and
community participation. In view of the results (see Myers, The



- 10 -
Eleven Who Survive, IBRD, 1987), and a recent decision by the
Ministry of Education to focus on basic (rather than pre-school)
education based on financing limitations, the ICBF has decided to
build up the HBI early childhood development component and has
included investment resources for minimal materials support (e.g.,
paper, scissors, etc.) in its budget, beginning in 1990.
1.32     Support.  As manifest in the continued, successful expansion of the
HBIs, overall support for the establishment and operation of the HBIs,
provided through the ICBF and local management structures, has been
effective. However, two areas have lagged notably: support for a regular
system of training for ICBF staff and community participants, especially
community mothers, in the program; and support for home improvements.
(a) Training. The ICBF developed a comprehensive training plan in the
early 1980s, which was not introduced owing to budgetary
constraints. However, the proposed system is well suited to
current needs. It would draw on the knowledge and experience of
technical staff of the ICBF offices without requiring the
establishment of a large training infrastructure within the ICBF.
Instead, ICBF would rely on assistance from outside providers
specialized in designing and providing training for community-based
programs. The ICBF recently entered a contract with SENA, the
national training institute, to assist in developing and providing
training materials for the HBI program. The training, to focus on
the three service areas of nutrition (including hygiene,
para. 1.31), health and child development, would support the
community mothers, parents' groups and other participants at the
local levels.
(b) Home Improvements. Access to home upgrading credits by community
mothers was limited during the initial phase of HBI expansion:
during 1987-89, nearly all community mothers applied for a credit
but only a third (about 15,000 through early 1990) could be
serviced with resources available through the ICT. In future,
funds for the home-upgrading credits for about 50,000 current and
new community mothers will need to be provided. Such funding would
enable approximately 75 percent of all community mothers to upgrade
their homes (based on an average credit of US$500).
Government Strategy
1.33     The expansion and improvement of basic social services are higL.
priorities for the social and economic development of Colombia. The current
Government, which assumed power in 1986, stated in its National Rehabili-
tation and Poverty Eradication Programs that the main objectives are
stabilization of the domestic environment and reduction of poverty. The
broad strategy for achieving these objectives is based on three elements:
continued economic growth; expanded provision of programs designed to
increase the productivity and employment of the poor; and increased
provision of basic social services in the areas of health, nutrition,
education, sanitation and shelter. To ensure continued economic recovery
and growth, efficient use of available resources and mobilization of
additional public and private resources over the medium-term are also
priorities.



- 11 -
1.34     The Government's most recent development plan, published in
September 1987 by the DNP, gives central importance to strengthening social
services for those groups identified as below the pov rty line, including
day care and nutritional support for children from the poorest households.
The program for extension and upgrading of basic health services, including
maternal, neo-natal and infant care, is being developed within a
decentralization plan that devolves greater responsibility, along with
selected fiscal resou-ces, to local governments. As in an ongoing program
for universalizatien ot primary education, the full implementation of this
plan will take several years. With respect to nutrition and day care for
children at risk, the ICBF has already accumulated and evaluated experience
with the HBI program and drawn up a detailed expansion program. The
Government now plans to extend the HBI program in carefully monitored annual
stages to serve the full target population, estimated at more than a million
children.
The Bank's Role
1.35     The Bank's assistance strategy for Colombia focuses on continued
economic growth, combined with poverty alleviation through policy
adjustments and selective investments in key economic and social sectors.
Priority is given to allocating resources for reducing poverty, especially
among the most vulnerable segments of the population--infants, children and
female heads of household. The Bank's country strategy seeks to ensure that
such services are developed within a viable macroeconomic and a sustainable
fiscal framework. The Bank's sector work and lending in human resources are
also designed to address poverty issues and sector-specific issues of cost
recovery, the balance between public and private seoitor participation and
between capital and recurrent expenditures, and the composition of recurrent
costs.
1.36     The Bank completed an assessment of the Government's Poverty
Alleviation Program in late 1988 (para. 1.2). This review covers the areas
of health, education, housing and nutrition. Conclusions support
Government's medium- to longer-term objectives to expand primary health care
based on a set of administrative and financial reforms. These would
strengthen management of existing resources and promote mobilization of new
resources. The Bank is directly supporting the extension of primary
education to achieve improved coverage and quality, particularly in rural
and poor urban areas, and is encouraging Government to emphasize a shelter
policy of upgrading and rehabilitation of housing, which will cater directly
for needs of the urban poor. In nutrition and early childhood development,
the report cites the HBI program as a promising mechanism for serving poor
urban children as well as mothers. The proposed project would support the
second-phase expansion of this program and complement Bank operations in the
areas of basic health, rural water supply, and municipal and rural
development.
1.37     The Bank has previously extended support for one health and one
nutrition project and for two basic education projects. The proposed
project relates most closely to the health and nutrition operations. The
health project, assisted by Loan 2611-CO of 1986, suffered delayed progress
owing to fragmentation of project management responsibilities among several
agencies, and more generally to weaknesses in institutional and financial
support within the decentralized system of primary health care it supports.



- 12 -
As a result, the project was substantially restructured during early 1990.
The integrated nutrition project, assisted by Loan 1487-CO of 1977. met or
exceeded most physical targets originally agreed but fell short in other key
areas. Most notably, the feasibility of implementing a food coupon program
was demonstrated under this project. In this case, however, direct benefits
(calories delivered) were low; and design changes could have improved the
outcome had an effective monitoring and evaluation system been in place.
This was not the case in large measure due to an overly complex evaluation
design and inadequate managerial attention to evaluation. Both the health
and the nutrition operations confirm the difficulties of managing new and
complex operations in a particular sector or subsector, particularly when
several public sector agencies are involved and extensive coordination among
them is required. The lessons, on the importance of a sound nutrition
evaluation system and on the more general risks of complex project design
and management structures, have been carefully considered in designing the
proposed project.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.1      The proposed project was prepared by the ICBF in collaboration with
the DNP and the Bank. Preparation was carried out from November 1988 to May
1989. Appraisal was completed in June 1989. Negotiations took place in
Washington, D.C. and Bogota, Colombia during April 27 - May 2, 1990. During
negotiations, the Government delegation was headed by Diana Young Torres,
Deputy Director, Foreign Public Credit, Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Content
2.2      The proposed project has three basic objectives: (a) to improve the
cost-effectiveness of ICBF operations; (b) to support the institutional
development of ICBF, in particular, to strengthen its technical support,
planning, and monitoring capabilities vis a vis the HBIs; and (c) to
evaluate, improve and maintain at an appropriate level, the quality of HBI
services during expansion.
2.3      The project would finance the main investment costs of the
Government's HiBI expansion program during 1990-95 (para. 1.16 and Annex 6),
and focuses on policy and institutional changes and service delivery
support. It wold consist of the following components, designed to:
(a) Policy Development: Enhance effectiveness of ICBF resource use by:
(i) assessing and establishing revised financing arrangements for
the CAIPs and reducing the ICBF's budget contribution to the
program; ard (ii) improving the efficiency of production and
marketing of Bienestarina.
(b) Management Development: Strengthen the management capacity of the
ICBF by: (i) identifying and effecting key requirements for
organizational and staffing changes; (ii) introducing an integrated
ICBF information system, and developing planning and programming;
and (iii) implementing monitoring and impact evaluation systems for
the HBIs on a national scale.



- 13 -
(c) Service Support: Assist in consolidating gains of the HBI program
to date and improving quality by introducing systematic training
for community mothers and other HBI community participants, and by
providing community mothers access to home improvement credits.
The policy and institutional development components are supported by a
letter signed by the Director General of the ICBF and a plan of action
(Annex 7).
Detailed Project Description
Policy Development Component (proposed outlay US$0.4 million, including
contingencies).
2.4      The policy changes to be introduced under the project are designed
to improve efficiency and equity in the allocation and use of ICBF
resources. The measures respond to Government concerns regarding the
targeting of social programs and the quality and efficiency of services
provided.
2.5      CAIPs.  The ICBF would conduct a study to assess alternatives for
the long-term financing of the CAIPs (para. 1.21). This study, to be
financed under the project, would consider privatizing the CAIPs,
transferring them to local government authorities, or a combination of these
measures. Management and financing through social funds maintained by
public and private seLtor agencies and firms (as parts of social security
systems) would be included among alternatives assessed. The study would be
carried out by independent consultants to the ICBF. The ICBF would invite
interested parties to participate in an advisory group for the study. Terms
of reference (Annex 8) for the study acceptable to the Bank have been
prepared.
2.6      While awaiting the study's recommendations, the ICBF would begin to
decrease its budgetary support to the CAIPs to reduce direct subsidies to
middle-income families. The ICBF and the DNP agreed on an initial
reduction, equivalent to 13 percent in real terms, for 1990. This would be
followed by annual adjustments (until alternative arrangements can be
effected) to achieve a targeted decrease of 30 percent by 1995. To cover
the resulting gap, CAIPs' fees were raised and collection criteria
strengthened in accordance with an August 1989 decree of the ICBF's Board of
Directors. User families are now charged 1.5 percent to 8 percent of income
based on earnings. Estimates show that a 30 percent decrease would
represent savings of about US$13.5 million equivalent annually by 1994 Xin
1989 Drices). During negotiations the Government agreed to reduce by
30 percent in real terms ICBF's budget support for the CAIPs during 1989-95
and to complete the study on future CAIPs' financing, and a time-bound
action plan acceptable to the Bank for implementing recommendations, by
June 30, 1991 (para. 3.1 (a)).
2.7      Bienestarina.  In order to meet the increase in demand projected
for Bienestarina after the early 1990s, and to ensure economy in its
production and distribution, the ICBF and the DNP intend to evaluate
alternative production mechanisms (para. 1.23). Terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (Annex 8) were prepared for this study and reviewed
during appraisal. Commercial production, marketing and distribution
mechanisms would be carefully evaluated. Included would be the option of



- 14 -
lead to interim as well as longer-tarm policy decisions on Bier.estarina
production and marketing structures. At negotiations the Government agreed
to complete the study and a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank by
December 31, 1991 (para. 3.1 (b)). Results of the study ,hould also enable
the ICBF to take decisions on needs for adjustments to Bienestarina content
on the basis of variations in regional food consumption patterns of HBI
children (para. 1.22).
Management Development Component (proposed outlay, US$2.7 million).
2.8      Structure and Staffing.  Under the project. further analysis of the
organization, functions and staffina of the ICBF would be undertaken
(para. 1.26). Recommendations would be drawn from an independent assessment
guided by a technical team of ICBF staff under the Director General. Terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank are presented in Annex 8. The assess-
ment would focus on mechanisms for further decentralize:ion of programs as
well as financial responsibilities over the medium- to longer-terms. It is
envisaged that over the coming years ICBF would continue to introduce and
guide national programs of special emphasis, such as the HBI program, while
shifting emphasis from implementation towards technical support in each of
its areas of responsibility. At negotiations, the Government greed to
complete the management study and a time-bound action plan a,..  table to the
Bank by June 30, 1991 (para.3.1 (c)).
2.9      In the near-term, the ICBF would give priority to assuring adequate
staff for supporting the HBI expansion program. While adjustments can be
expected, the ICBF estimates that an additional 500 staff (300 permanent,
200 contracted) would be needed to support HBI expansion and other ICBF
programs at the local and zonal levels during 1990-95. Funds have been
budgeted for this increase by the ICBF. The bulk of new permanent staff
would be local administrators while the contract staff would be mainly
technical personnel, also workirg at the local levels. More systematic use
of local NGOs would be desirable. However, means for expanding the
involvement of qualified outside entities will need to be developed and
tested. The institutional assessment (para. 2.8) would thus include
consultation with community agencies with a view to designing arrangements
for regular incorporation of NGO and other community resources and expertise
in the HBI program.
2.10     To promote  evelopment of a flexible ICBF staffing pattern the
Institute plans to adopt a "global personnel" structure. Among permanent
staff, the various technical professionals and sub-professionals (e.g.,
social workers, nutritionists, early childhood development experts and
administrators) would not be assigned to specific programs as is currently
the case, but shifted among ICBF programs in accordance with changing
demand, with particular attention in the foreseeable future directed to the
HBI program. The addition of permanent staff training in the ICBF
structure, planned for mid-1990, would facilitate this arrangement. In
addition, staff working at the community level would be allowed to adopt
flexible working schedules to facilitate communications with community
participants, e.g., meetings with parents' associations after normal working
hours.
2.11     Planning.  Under the project, the new MIS would be introduced in
the ICBF (para. 1.28). The MIS would support planning, programming and
budgeting, initially for HBIs and gradually for other ICBF programs. A



- 15 -
rolling programming system would also be introduced to extend the planning
horizon beyond the annual framework currently employed. For the HBIs, the
HIS would include yearly updates of needs assessments; information on
nutritional and basic health status of HBI children. maintained by the
community mothers; selected data on parents and other pro&ram participants;
and data on allocation and use of resources. The MIS would also include
information required for financial moiswitorir.g and control. The system would
be introduced during 1990. Initially, the MIS would be used to steer the
ICBF through the end of the HBI expansion phase, and to track costs and
coverage of the program. Over the medium to longer terms, it would be
extended to other ICBF programs. The project would provide financing for
computer hardware and software needed to introduce the new MIS. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to introduce the new MIS by June 30,
1991 (para.3.1 (d)).
2.12     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under the project regular monitoring of
the HBI program would be introduced (para. 1.29). The informlation generated
through the new MIS would form the base for monitoring the coverage and
internal eff'ciency of the HBI program (e.g., data on children enrolled and
on community mothers, changes in children's height and weight, use of
program financing and inputs, community participation and support, etc.).
In addition. the project would support the regular evaluation of HBI impact.
The evaluation would be based on a household survey to be conducted annually
in several cities.  It would include HBI and non-participating families, and
complement a larger household survey conducted by DANE in 13 cities
throughout the year.
2.13     The HBI survey work would measure both direct and indirect
outcomes, e.g., impact on participants as well as other family members.   In
particular, it would assess the income and price effects of the program on
household consumption to estimate overall impact on family nutrition and
health; and analyze the income effects of the increase in mothers' free time
attributable to the program (e.g., wnether spent at work, school or
leisure). Small subsamples could also be derived from the survey to analyze
a particular problem or issue in depth, as may be required to reorient or
strengthen the HBI program. Staff of the Bank's Welfare and Human Resources
Division assisted in the preliminary design of the survey. The project
would include financing for the introduction of the evaluation, including
the costs of equipment and consultants. Financing is also provided for
studies related to evaluation findings and more general preparation of
future ICBF programs. During negotiations, the Government agreed to
introduce the HBI evaluation system by June 30, 1991 (para 3.1 (d)).
Service Support Component (proposed outlay, US$37.1 million).
2.14     Training.  The project includes financirg for the introduction of a
program of regular training and technical supervision for HBI staff and
community participants. The training would complement the other program
inputs to support achievement of the nutrition, health and early childhood
development objectives of the HBI program. The training system is being
developed under the SENA contract (para. 1.32), which includes the
development of materials and the training of trainers--technical and
administrative staff--at the regional, zonal and local offices. The plan
aims to provide training annually for all key participants, e.g., all
community mothers and parents' groups. Periodic training would also be
provided for other selected community groups and volunteers, including



- 16 -
municipal administrators, local contractors and food suppliers (for purposes
of orientation to the HBI progra&'- In the interests of improving the
quality of HBI services, the tl:..,ng would emphasize nutrition education,
food handling (cooking and hygiene), child growth and health -.onitoring,
design of pre-school development activities for community mothers, and
program and related financial management and control for parents' groups.
2.15     For nutrition management and health monitoring, training would
focus on appropriate combinations of Bienestarina and other foods and on
measurement of actual consumption by the children. As part of the
monitoring system for the HBIs, the community mothers would also be trained
to maintain information cards on each child. These cards, with a simple
format, would be used to record attendance, height, weight and vaccinations
received by the HBI children on a periodic basis. They would be used to
measure progress as well as to identify problems. Supervisory staff at the
local levels would be responsible foi periodic review of results with the
methers and for helping to arrange for health services follow-up for
children with growth or health problems. For this purpose, a letter from
the Minister of Health to the Director General, ICBF, dated December 19,
1989, provides an acceptable broad framework for providing basic health care
servic'!s to HBI childrer on a priority bas,s. During negotiations the
Government agreed to ensure that each child would be fully vaccinated before
entering the HBI program and that criteria and arrangements satisfactory to
Lhe Bank for identifying and meeting the basic health requirements of HBI
children would be established by October 31, 1990 (para. 3.1 kd)). The
criteria would be used to identify HBI locaticns and children with
inadequate access to basic health care and programs (mainly existing) would
be tapped to provide the necessary vaccination and follow-up services.
Related information would to be provided to HSI families, and to community
mothers.
2.16     The training would also include regular orientation workshops for
community mothers as well as parents and other community volunteers on the
importance of social interaction, constructive play, and other pre-school
learning activities for promoting the cognitive and social development of
the child, as well as ago-appropriate physical skills. Subsequent sessions
would include demonstrations for making simple games and toys and for
organizing individual and group activities. Early childhood educators from
the Ministry of Education are working with the ICBF educators and involved
SENA staff to develop these training activities.
2.17     The training system would be based on modular materials prepared at
the central level a9d on supplementary materials prepared locally (Annex 9).
Included are print and non-print materials. SENA has designed many of the
materials based on skills needs identified by ICBF technical staff. While
the modules are oriented towards self-learning, tutors drawn variously from
ICBF zonal and local staff and community participaRts wouAld support small
group sessions. Follow-up demonstration and support, both group and
individual, would be provided mainly by ICBF zonal and local staff in the
course of regular supervision activities. ICBF staff would train the
tutors. The training plan calls for one week of initial training for small
groups of new community mothers, foliowed by evening sessions once each week
for the first three months of service and once each two weeks there-fter.
The current group of community mothers would also participate in the evening
sessions. Sessions for parents and other groups would be held on weekends.
Details on the content of training have been completed and materials are



- 17 -
materials and printing) and distribution of cer,erally prepared materials,
includirq selected audiovisual equipment; supplies to prepare local
materials; and the cost of delivery of the training.
2.18     Home Upgrading.  To facilitate nutrition and health improvements in
the expanding HBI program, the ICBF would make available funds required to
upgrade about 50,000 comiunity mothers' homes to minimum standards for
providing day care. The credits would be provided to new community mothers
as well as those not served during 1987-89 (para. 1.32). The maximum credit
amount would be US$750 (in 1989 prices). Loans would be repayable in
60 months and carry an interest rate of 18 percent annually and a 1 percent
guarantee fee. This interest rate is about 45 percent of the current
commercia'l rate and two thirds of the current deposit rate. It implies a
grant element of about US$175 equivalent on an average credit of US$500
equivalent. The overall subsidy implied in these credit terms 'rould be of
the order of US$1.0 million equivalent annually in constant prices during
the implementation period (scheduled for 1990-93). However, the cost of
this subsidy to the ICBF is well justified. The benefits accrue directly to
the HBI children and mothers and thus represent an efficient form of
transfer to the lowest-income urban household on equity grounds; and the
total subsidy and cost of the upgrading program represent a small volume of
funds which pose no threat in the form of market distortions. The ICBF
developed simple zriteria for assessing requirements for home upgrading as
well as for ensuring the effective implementation of the credit program. On
balance, the interest charged can best be characterized as a mechanism for
securing partial cost recovery of the marginal benefits accruing to the
community mothers from the minor improvements made to their homes. It
develops a repayment discipline among the community mothers which would not
be fostered through grant arrangements. Loan payments would be drawn
automatically from the monthly stipend received by the community mother.
The project would include financing required for the home upgrading.
Program Implementation
2.19     Management.  The project comprises discrete elements of the larger
HBI expar.sion program (Annex 6) and would be implemented by the ICBF as part
of that program. Overall authority for management of the HBi program is
vested in the Director General, ICBF. At the policy level, the Director
General is supported by the ICBF Board of Directors. Day to day management
of the program is the responsibility of the rirector of Planning, ICBF. To
facilitate continuity in program management and implementation during
expansion, technical advisors would be contracted to support the Director of
Planning in the central ICBF. Included would be an experienced program
coordinator and a financing/procurement officer and assistant. These
advisors would all be appointed as a condition for effectiveness (para. 3.2
(a)). The project would finance this coordinating assistance. At each
regional office, three technical staff serve as program coordinators and at
each local office, one project coordinator is also designated.
2.20     The policy and institutional development components would be
managed by the ICBF's Planning Office. Annual project planning ar.d
programming would also be the direct responsibility of the ICBF Planning
Orfice, in cooperation with the relevant technical units. The service
delivery components would be guided by the relevant ICBF technical or
administrative units, as i8 currently the *ase. These include directorates



- 18 -
and subdirectorates responsible for nutrition, health, child protection and
early childhood development. Implementation guidance for service delivery
is provided through the regional and local offices of the ICBF. The service
support components would be guided from the central off4-e of the ICBF. The
training system is being developed under the guidance oi a group of staff
drawn from central ICBF tecihnical units. These staff have been in place
since early 1988 and would contit.ue to be responsible for overseeing the
implementation o' th. trainit.- system by regional and local staff. The lhome
upgrading would be guided by the ICBF's Planning Office with support from
the Finance Directorate.
2.21     Financial oversight at all administrative levels would he vested in
ICBF budget and finance units. The ICBF has appropriate and well.tested
expenditure recording procedures for the HBI program (Annex 10).
2.22     Implementation Process.  Implementation plans for the policy and
institutionel d.-velopment components of the project are summarized in the
plan of action for these items (Annex 7). Investments under the service
support components of the program would conform with annual plans agreed
between the regions and the ICBF, based on updated needs assessments, local
implementation capacity and resources available. Overall program targets
are provided in Annex 6.
2.23     In the ces' of home-upgrading credits, the funds would be managed
under an agreement ,etween the ICBF and the Fiduciaria la Previsora.  The
ICBF would authorize the Fiduciary to provide home-upgrading credits to
approved community mothers. Payments would be grouped and transferred in
the form of bank drafts against promissory notes signed by the community
mothers to accounts held by the local parents' associations on behalf of the
community mothers.  Under instructions from the ICBF, the associations would
transfer credit payments to the community mothers in two installments on the
basis of a schedule of works. Credit repayments would be drawn by the ICBF
from the monthly stipends of the community mothers and transferred
automatically to the trust account. The signing and authorization of the
contract between the ICBF and the Fiduciary would be a condition for loan
effectiveness (para. 3.2 (b)).
2.24     The HBI parents' associations would recommend for ICBF approval
each credit for home upgrading based on a description of the works to be
carried out. The credit agreement would be signed by the community mothers
and the ICBF. It would describe obligations for use of the funds. The
upgrading works vary little and commonly include extensions to floors and
roofs and the provision of sanitary facilities. Particular needs would be
determined or confirmed by the parents' associations, ICBF staff or other
qualified individuals or agencies represented in the community. The
purchase of labor and materials would be the responsibility of the community
mothers, assisted by the parents' associations. Community contributions,
especially in the form of labor, would continue to form a significant input
for the simple upgrading activities. The parents' associations would
confirm the completion of works, which would be supervised and certified by
the ICBF. These and related procedures already in practice for excercising
technical and financial control over the use of the credits, and to
establish price guidelines, would be formalized in a procedural manual to be
adopted by resolution of the ICBF and approved by the Bank. The issuing of
the ICBF resolution adopting the manual would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 3.2 (c)).



- 19 -
2.25     Iwplementation Schedule, Monitoring and Review.  The HBI expansion
program would be completed by December 31, 1995.   A satisfactory
expenditure and implementation plan for the first year of the project
implementation period has been completed by the ICBF. Bid documents for
items to be procured under the project during 1990 have also been prepared
and reviewed by the Bank. The practice of completing and updating annual
plans would continue throughout program implementation and would be
scheduled tc coincide with the local budget cycle.
2.26     The program would incorporate, as a key monitoring tool, an annual
progress review to be conducted jointly by the ICBF and the Bank. Decisions
on investments for the coming year would be based on: availability of
resources and demand for HBIs; progress towards achieving objectives and
expenditures scheduled for the previous year; and advances towards policy
targets and institutional improvements. An assessment of the subsidy on the
HBI home upgrading credits would form a focus of the annual review and the
security of regions receiving project investment funds would also be
considered, in view of Bank requirements for supervision. During
negotiations, the ICBF agreed to carry out, jointly with the Bank, an annual
review of program effectiveness prior to September 30; and to prepare, for
Bank review, the detailed expenditure plan for the following year by
November 30. The Government also agreed to ensure that the HBI program be
efficiently executed and appropriately funded (para. 3.1 (e)).
Project Costs and Financing
2.27     The Government's six-year expansion program for the HBIs has a
total cost of about US$675 million equivalent (Annex 6). The project is
designed to finance key investment inputs for program support with a view to
ensuring continued program effectiveness, economy and quality. It thus
incorporates costs associated with ICBF policy and management development,
and with service support (training and home upgrading). The ICBF would
provide financing for direct service delivery (i.e., for HBI equipment,
furniture, children's learning materials, foodstuffs, utilities, or
community mothers' stipends). Base costs of the project amount to
US$32.6 million equivalent (April 1990 prices). Total project costs amount
to US$40.2 million, including contingencies (Annex 11 and Tables 2.1 and
2.2, below). Of the total, about 23 percent represents foreign exchange
costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at 5 percent of base costs, for
all items except civil works and training, which are considered to be
programmatic in nature, and price contingencies at 22 percent of base costs
plus physical contingencies. The rates used for the price contingencies
were 4.9 percent for 1990-95 for foreign costs, based on estimated
international price increases, and a range of 12.1 percent for 1990 to
6.5 percent for 1994/95 for local costs, based on purchasing power parity of
the Colombian currency. The loan amount of US$24.0 million would finance
60 percent of total project costs (or the equivalent of 100 percent of the
foreign exchange costs and 47 percent of local costs).



- 20 -
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECTS COSTS BY COMPONENT
(US$ millions)
Local    Foreign    Total    X Foreign    X Base
Exchange     Costs
A.  Policy Development
Bienestarina Study       0.2        0.0        0.2           0         0
CAIPs Study              0.1        0.0        0.1           0         0
Subtotal                 0.3        0.0        0.3           0        1
B.  Management
Development
Institutional
Assessment             0.1        0.0        0.1           0        0
MIS                       0.2       0.8        1.0          80         3
Evaluation                0.5       0.0        0.5           0         1
Program Coordination    0.3         0.0        0.3           0         1
Other Studies            0.3        0.0        0.3           0         1
Subtotal                 1.4        0.8        2.2          36        6
C.  HBI Service
Support
Training                7.5        2.5       10.0          25       31
Houee Upgrading         15.1        5.0       20.1          25       62
Subtotal                22.6        7.5       30.1          25       93
Total base costs        24.3        8.3       32.6          25      100
Physical Contingencies  0.2         0.1        0.3
Price Contingencies      6.3        1.0        7.3
Total Project Cost      30.8        9.4       40.2          23
Note: Exclusive of taxes and duties, which are negligible.



- 21 -
Table 2.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(US$ millions)
Local    Foreign    Total    2 Foreign    2 Base
Exr:hange    Costs
Civil Works              15.1       5.0       20.1          25         73
Equipment-                q.4       2.2        2.6          85         10
Training Materials        1.4       0.5        1.9          25         12
Training                  6.0       0.6        6.6          10
Tecbmical Assistance      1.4       0.0        1.4           0          5
Total Base Costs         24.3       8.3       32.6          25        100
Physical Contingencies   0.2        0.1        0.3
Price Contingencies       6.3       1.0        7.3
Total Project Costs      30.8        9.4      40.2          23
2.28     Recurrent Costs.  In constant terms the incremental recurrent costs
of the project would amount to about US$3.5 million equivalent per year by
1995, essentially for sustaining training and monitoring services.   This
amount represents about 3 percent of estimated HBI expenditures beginning in
1996. However, tne total annual cost of operating the HBIs, based on the
larger expenditure program, will have a significant impact on ICBF program
and expenditure emphases: overall HBI costs will rise from about
US$70 million in 1989 to about US$120 million after 1995, or from about
35 percent to over 50 percent of projected total ICBF expenditure. Based on
projected overall increases in ICPF revenues (Annex 6), this higher level
required for HBI funding could be accommodated, especially since the
Government has agreed to reduce its expenditures on the CAIPs by as much as
US$13.5 million by 1995. The gradual full elimination of ICBF financing for
the CAIPs would free additional resources of the order of US$30 million
annually.
Procurement
2.29     Arrangements for procurement and limits by type are presented in
Annex 12. Small-scale civil works under the home upgrading component
(estimated aggregate value US$24.6 million equivalent) will be limited in
cost to no more than US$750 each. In addition, a small number of homes
would be upgraded in each community. As a result, contracting of these
works through LCB procedures would not be feasible. Procurement of these
works would therefore be carried out as follows: construction materials and
necessary labor would be contracted by community mothers assisted by the
parents' associations, or on behalf of the community mothers by the
respective HBI parent's associations (para. 2.24), and in accordance with
procedures set out in the manual, through use of local shopping procedures
to the extent feasible.



- 22 -
2.30     Computer equipment and software estimated to cost US$2.0 million
would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). Audio-
visual equipment, and printing of printed materials (total estimated value
US$3.8 million), would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages
and procured through ICB when valued above US$250,000 equivalent. Contracts
for these latter items, valued between US$20,000 equivalent and US$250,000
equivalent, would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and their aggregate amount would not
exceed US$1.3 million equivalent.  Miscellaneous items which cannot be
grouped in packages of US$20,000 equivalent or more, would be procured
through local shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, and up to the
aggregate amount of US$0.9 million equivalent. Consultants for studies and
technical assigLance would be selected and retained in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Frior Bank review would be required for all contracts for goods
to be awarded under ICB procedures and for all contracts awarded through LCB
exceeding USS'!,00,000 in value, and for the first two home-upgrading
contracts irrespective of size. Other contracts for goods would be subject
to random ex-post review by the Bank.
Disbursements
2.31     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a six and a half year
period ending June 30, 1996 (Annex 13). This represents about a year less
than the average regional disbursement profile for the human resources
sectors. This period is justified on the basis of experience with the HBI
program expansion to date and the minimum expenditures planned during the
last two years of project implementation. Proceeds of the loan would be
disbursed as follows: (a) 51 percent of expenditures for home upgrading
credits; (b) 100 percent of foreign and 30 percent of local expenditures for
equipment, materials, printing, and supplies; (c) 80Z of expenditures for
training; and (d) 100 percent of expenditures for technical assistance.
Disbursements on local expenditures with a contract value less than
US$200,000 equivalent and for home upgrading, and foreign expenditures with
a contract value less than US$50,000 would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure.   Supporting documentation for these expenditures-
would be retained by the ICBF and made available for periodic review by Bank
staff. Disbursements on other items would be fully documented. To expedite
disbursements, a Special Account would be established by the Government in
the Central Bank in US dollars. The Bank would make an initial deposit of
US$2.0 million.   Expenditures on project items incurred after June 30, 1989
would be eligible for retroactive financing up to an amount of
US$2.4 million.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
2.32     The ICBF's accounting and auditing system has been reviewed by the
Bank and is satisfactory for meeting related project requirements. The
ICBF would establish and maintain consolidated accounts as well as other
records required to account for project financing. Similar separate
accounts and records would be maintained by the regional and zonal offices
of the ICBF. These accounts would be clearly identifiable within the ICBF
accounting structure and adequate to record, monitor and report on the
financial transactions for the project, including local and Bank financing.
The accounts would be audited annually by the Government's Controller
General, in accordance with the Bank's auditing guidelines, and including a
separate cpinion on withdrawal applications made on the basis of statements



- 23 -
of expenditure. The Special Account would also be audited annually by the
Controller General in accordance with terms of reference to be supplied by
the Bank. The annual audit reports would be providea to the Bank not later
than six months after the close of the financial year.
2.33     The Director of the ICBF's Planning Office would be responsible
for preparing semi-annual (by August 31 and January 31) progress reports
for Bank review, to provide information on project implementation cL'ering
both quantitative and qualitative aspects of the project and linking these
with financial performance on the basis of annual plans. (The aggregate
indicators for implementation monitoring are found in the plan of action
for policy and institutional development and in physical investment
targets, Annexes 6 and 7.) These reports would contribute to the
information required for the annual reviews of project progress and would
facilitate Bank supervision.
Benefits and Risks
2.34     Benefits.  Through the expansion program for the H6Is, over one
million of the country's poorest pre-school children will benefit from
improved nutrition and health status and exposure to pre-school learning.  The
economic and social benefits of the approach are multiple. Investment in
nutrition and early education for disadvantaged children will have direct
impact on their capacity to take advantage of subsequent opportunities for
schooling.  For community mothers, the program will provide modest income and
home improvement.  For the mothers of the children enrolled in the program,
the option is available to seek additional remunerative employment. Finally,
the program serves as a catalyst for community participation and mobilization
in support of self-help strategies for health, education and slum improvement.
2.35     Risks.  The major project risk is that the HBI program may outstrip
the managerial and financial capacities of ICBF, under the pressures of
expansion. The managerial risk will be minimized by the ICBF's
implementation of well-conceived management and staffing arrangements; by
the designation of additional program coordinating staff; and by measures to
strengthen community-level support and managerial capacity for the program.
The financial risk will be reduced by the implementation of measures to
improve ICBF efficiency and to target ICBF subsidies in favor of the poor
(i.e., away from the more costly center-based care towards the HBIs).
Moreover, any necessary adjustments in the rate of program expansion would
be effected through annual joint program reviews, agreed by the Bank and the
ICBF.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1      raring negotiations, agreement was obtained that:
(a) the ICBF would reduce by 30 percent in real terms, its budget
allocations for CAIPs during 1989-95 and the study on the future
financing and management of the CAIPs and a time-bound action plan
acceptable to the Bank would be completed by June 30, 1991
(para. 2.6);



- 24 -
(b)  the study on future fin ancing and production of BienestaLina and a
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank would be completed by
December 31, 1991 (para. 2.7);
(c) the study on the ICEF management structure and a time-bound action
plan acceptable to the Bank would be completed by June 30, 1991
(para. 2.8);
(d) the new MIS for the ICBF would be in place by June 30, 1991, and
the impact evaluation system for the HBI would be introduced by
June 30, 1991; each child would be fully vaccinated prior to
entering the HBI program and criteria and arrangements for meeting
additional basic health requirements of HBI children would be
established by October 31, 1990 (paras. 2.11, 2.13 and 2.15); and
(e) the ICBF would carry out, jointly with the Bank, an annual review
of HBI program effectiveness prior to September 30, and prepare,
for Bank review, the detailed investment plan for the foi!owing
year by November 30; and the Government would ensure efficient
execution and appropriate funding for the HBI program (para. 2.26).
3.2      Conditions for loan effectiveness would be: (a) the appointment of
technical advisors to support HBI program management (para. 2.19); (b) the
signing and authorization of the contract between the ICBF and the Fiduciary
(para. 2.23); and (c) the formal adeption, by resolution of the ICBF, of the
procedural manual for managing home upgrading credits (para. 2.24).
3.3      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for a Bank loan in the amount of US$24 million equivalent to
the Republic of Colombia.



ANNEX 1
- 25-                                  Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
POVERTY INDICATORS BY REGION
.                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(3)
Household.
With
Composite                               Housing   Households      School-
Indicator   Inadequate   Overcrowded   LeckTng    With LoW         Aged
Region             (1)        Housing       Housing     Services    Income       Children (2)
Group 1
CHOCO             77.10         7.90         18.22        69.36       11.06        16.86
CORDOBA           69.71        52.4s         12.00        53.f0       15.65        18.20
SUCRE             67.70        48.90         13.75        51.24       19.22        13.07
ORINOQUIA (8)     66.82        25.12         16.99        4s.06        0.86        18.49
BOLIVAR           69.82        83.02         16.89        44.87       14.02        14.86
AMAZONIA (4)      56.24        19.08         14.79        38.42        6.96        10.61
croup 2
BOYACA            65.06         6.88         14.04        44.19       10.66         9.19
MAGDALENA         54.s8       29.888         15.56        87.80       16.26        13.51
NARINO            63.79         16.60        25.01        80.68       10.29        10.77
CAUCA             62.71        26.11         14.69        32.62       11.64         9.89
CAqUETA           61.19        19.98         16.09        29.16       18.18        18.68
CESAR             50.96        19.94         18.41        31.05       13.73        12.16
LA GUAJIRA        47.21        14.86         12.98        84.16        9.61         7.20
Group 8
NORTE SOER.       46.82         10.92        14.70        29.05       11.27        12.32
CUNDINAMARCA      43.82        11.90         12.87        29.38        6.16         6.06
HUILA             41.62         18.91         9.62        20.18       10.90        10.36
TOLIMA            40.46         16.23        10.16        20.83       11.16        10.07
META              89.60        16.87         -2.67        16.67        8.90         8.29
SANTANDER         89.36         10.29        10.i8        25.47       10.19         7.61
ATLANTICO         86.49         7.60          9.88        28.68        9.16         7.68
SAN ANDRES        85.23         2.86          6.68        26.85        1.42         1.42
Group 4
ANTIOQIUA         81.94         9.27         11.00        15.52       10.99         6.97
VALLE             27.67         8.07         11.69         6.30        8.67         4.91
CALDAS            27.38         2.59          8.47         7.77       10.71         8.31
RISARALDA         26.62         2.86         10.06         0.42       10.86         8.83
qUINDIO           21.68         1.98          8.30         2.28        9.91         7.62
BOGOTA            18.37         3.86         12.76         1.47        3.7;         2.68
_-  -____________-         -- - - -- - -- - - --___-   -___-_-    - ---_    _-_-_-_-_
(1) Basic unsatisfied needs, a measure of poverty in Colombia (X)
(2) Households with school-aged children not attending school
(3) Arsuca, Cacaners and Vichads
(4) Amazonas, Ousinia, Guaviare, Putumayo and Vaupos
Source DANE, 1986 National Census. Survey of 1X of private households, *xcluding indigenous
zone.



ANNEX 2
- 26 -                                        Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING AND EXPENDITURES (PUBLIC)
Table 1: OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC HEALTH EXPENDITURES (198fl-1990)
As Percent of GDP
1980     1985     1988      1987      1988     1989      1990
(planned)
TOTAL                       2.78      2.86     2.61      2.64       2.74     2.99     8.11
Public Health                1.47     1.41     1.41      1.46       1.55     1.79     1.78
Reglonal Health Offices     0.87      0.95     0.90      0.90       0.98     1.02     1.00
ilnistry/Entities           0.26      0.18     0.20      0.28      0.28      0.86     0.82
IC8F                        0.84      0.28     0.81      0.29      0.34      0.41     0.46
Social Security              1.26     1.24     1.20      1.19       1.19     1.20     1.88
Source: DNP



ANNEX 2
- 27 -                                    Page 2 o! 2
COL04BIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
HEALTH SECTOR FINANCING AND EXPENDITURES (PUBLIC)
Table 2: PUBLIC SECTOR HEALTH FINANCING
(million of 1987 Col$)
Source *? Funds          1980      1986     1986     1987    1988      1989      1990
(planned)
1. National Budget           41,759   47,099   51,012   59,167   81,737   79,424    78,889
1.1 Recurrent             30,107  38,422   40,284   46,6833   48,694   60,127   56,013
1.2 Investment            11,662    8,677   10,726   13,634   13,042   19,297    21,676
2. Other Income               28,916   86,199   41,281   48,004   48,970   49,427    49,844
2.1 Taxes                 14,694   19,100   22,490   26,820   29,251   28,70M   28,987
2.2 Departmental,
Municipal            1,684    1,268       801      742    1,768    2,339      1,886
2.8 Sale of Services      12,638   16,831   17,990   16,942   17,953   18,328    18,472
S. Own Income 3/                 17      3689     S6       809       421      634       389
Total                     70        83.ese   92.908  102L480  111,129  129.386 !   26.422
s/   Ministry of Health, excluding the IC8F.
Source: DNP



ANNEX 3
- 28 -                          Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND PRE-SCHOOL PROGRAM -- BY PROVIDER
(thousands of children)
1989
Direct        Indirect        Supplemental
Attention      Attention.        Support
National Health System
Institutional
Pediatric Care
Maternal/Infant Care                                                     500
Community Programs                                         320
Subtotal National Health System                           320              500
ICBF
CAIPs                                     280
Community
National Food/Nutrition Program          68
Neighborhood Children's House             2
Family Homes                              3
Child Circles
Block Program                             1
HBIs                                    400
Family Education and Orientation                                         694
Program for
Maternal/Infant Nutrition                                             738
Subtotal ICBF                             754                            1,432
Education Sector
Institutional
Pre-schools National/Departmental       130
Other Public Pre-schools                  6
Private Pre-schools                     200
Private Daycare                          20
Community
Open Pre-schools                         40
Subtotal Education Sector                 396
Interinstitutional Programs
Community
Family Health Programs/                                 900
Child Development Programs                              240
Subtotal Interinstitutional Programs                    1,140
TOTAL                                   1,150           1,460            1,932
Source: Ministry of Education



ANNEX 4
- 29 -                         Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
COMPARATIVE COSTS OF THE CAIPs AND THE HBIs
(Current Col$)
Cost/Child                  1987              1988               1989
Month                 CAIP     HBI      CAIP     HBI       CAIP      HBI
Personnel/Staff           5,980     900    6,300      800      7,740   1,170
Food                      1,880     880    1,970   1,120       2,430   1,350
Materials/Supplies        1,070      600    1,130     800      1,380   1,260
TOTAL                     8,930   2,380    9,400   2,720    11,550   3,780
HBI/CAIP                      0.27               0.29               0.33
Source: ICBF



COUIIi       - CHlE Q DBCA    Am   llITIi PROECT
ICBF - ORGANZAT!N OURT
|Studies I      ProO raming       Organitioton       Infornation
Division        & Evaluation       & Methods          A Syst=s
Divinion          Divis;on          Division
Ser-t ry                  F i nonce &              Administratlon                       L'l                   Protetion Iutrition
General                 Budget Dpt                 and Reionel                      bDpartment                                          rtt Depatment
Coordination Dept.
[Personnel ||Divisionl                                Regional                           Legal               vPrevntIve              Nutrition
Dtivision |                   |                     Coordination                      Assistnc-               Protection             Protection
Diviion                           D ivision                DivIsion Division
Accounting
Comtunications                                       Ad| inistrotiv,                     A                        Fdoptionamly       liutr itionl
Divioion                                          Control Division    |ivision                                 Education
I i                                     g                                       gDivision             Division
Treabury
Division                                                                                                r
rol                                                                                    aLeal                    Spel                Food Production
IServic ta                    I                                        I              IDivision                lProtecton         L ond Quslity
vDivion                                                                                                         Divison            Control Division
|Financial|
Re"ources 
Division I
IRgintal Otfice.                                                                         z
Zonal/Lecol |
OfficesI 



ANNEX 6
- 31 -                          Page 1 of 3
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 1: ICBF EXPANSION PROGRAM
(1990-1995; Constant US$ of 1989)
90     91    92       93     94      95     TOTAL
Expenditure Plan
Administration                     34.1   34.1   34.1   34.1   34.1   34.1    204.6
HBI Program                        67.4   90.4  108.9  135.8  136.3  135.8    674.6
Other Programs (including CAIPs) 89.9   79.2   71.0   55.5   64.7   74.1    434.4
Bienestarina (for other than       17.8   17.8   17.8   17.8   17.8   17.8    106.8
HBIs)
Total Expenditures                209.2  221.5  231.8  243.2  252.9  261.8  1,420.4
Funding Expected
Payroll Tax (3Z)                  203.2  209.3  215.6  222.0  228.7  235.6  1,314.4
Non-tax Revenues                    3.8    8.0   12.0   16.0   19.0   22.0        80.8
Multilateral Grants                 0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2         1.2
IBRD Loan *                         2.0    4.0    4.0    5.0    5.0    4.0        24.0
Total Funding                     209.2  221.5  231.8  243.2  252.9  261.8  1,420.4
* Notional schedule of loan availability, only.



ANNEX 6
- 32 -                       Page 2 of 3
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 2: HBZ EXPENDITURE PROGRAM BY ITEM (1990-95)
(Constant US$ millions of September 1989)
Item                                          Investment Cost
Policy DeveloPment
Bienestarina Study                                       0.2
CAIPs Study                                              0.1
Sub-total                                                0.3
Management DeveloDment
Institutional Assessment                                 0.1
MIS                                                      1.0
Evaluation                                               0.8
HBI Program Coordinacion                                 0.5
Other Studies                                            0.5
Sti-total                                                2.9
EBI Service Support and DeliveLy
Equipment                                                35.2
Furniture                                                9.8
House Upgrading                                          29.0
Training                                                 5.9
Teaching Supplies                                        21.2
Community Mothers' Stipends                              185.6
Bienestarina                                             22.0
Other foods                                              331.9
Utilities                                                30.8
Sub-total                                                671.4
Total                                                    674.6



ANNEX 6
- 33 -                            Page 3 of 3
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
*                                                       HBI PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
Table 8: MAIN PHYSICAL TARGETS
(1990 - 9S)
Targeted            Mid-1989    1990        1991       1992        1993      1994      1995      Total
No.              (Actual)
No. of HBI children  600,000   100,000    100,000    100,000    loo,co0  100,000          -   1,000,000*.
No. of HSI.           82,000    7,000        7,000      7,000       7,000     7,000       -      67,000..
(Community mothers)
Approx. No. of
house. to be
upgraded              15,000*   10,000      12,000     14,000      12,000         -       -      68,000
* Homes upgraded during 1987-69.
** Minimum targets.
Note: Aggregate figures for 1989; Incremental annual figures for 1990-96.



ANNEX 7
- 34 -                        Page l of 4
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
ICBY Policy and Institutional Development
Letter of Intent and Plan of Action
Letter of Policy Intent
Office of the Director General
Colombian Institute for Family Welfare
Bogota, December 22, 1989
Mr. Barber Conable
President, World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable:
The Government of Colombia wishes to request a loan of
US$24 million from the World Bank for a project to support an investment
and expansion program for the Colombian Institute of Family Welfare's
(ICBF's) Community Child Care and Nutrition Program (Programa de Hogares de
Bienestar Infantil, HBIs), which is a central component of the present
Administration's poverty reduction effort.
1.       General Policy Framework
The current Development Plan aims to achieve high and sustained
economic growth together with an improved quality of life for the Colombian
people, especially the poorest segments of the population. Public
investment is oriented with priority towards providing physical, productive
and social facilities for low-income communities and areas, both rural and
urban, through three programs: the National Rehabilitation Plan; the
Integrated Rural Development Plan- and the Poverty Reduction Plan. The
emphasis assigned to investments in human resources and social
infrastructure is expected to endure well beyond the present plan period,
ending in 1990. The provision of adequate care and nutrition inputs for
poor children in the pre-school age group fits closely within this
strategy.
2.       Child Care and Nutrition Policy
The Development Plan recognizes that the care, protection and
feeding of infants and young children is an indispensable component of
collective wellbeing of the population. It thus gives priority to the
expansion of the HBI program, a successful, home-based program for
delivering day-care and supplemental nutrition to children from families in
the lowest income strata at risk for malnutrition and poor health, in urban
areas. The care is provided by 'community mothers' responsible for about
15 children each, mainly ages two to five. The program's reliance on



ANNEX 7
-35 -                          Page 2 of 4
community management and support ensures its viability and keeps costs
well-below those for center-based care and formal pre-school programs.
Other notable benefits of the program are the emplcnment opportunities it
creates bcth for the community mothers and for the mothers of participating
children, often heads of households. The Plan strategy is to extend the
HBI program to all children at risk for malnutrition or otherwise
inadequate care over the next several years.
3.       Subsector Policies
The planned investment for the HBIs over the period 1989-94 rests
in large measure on policies designed to improve efficiency and equity in
the allocation and use of ICBF resources. They respond to Government
concerns regarding the targeting of social programs and the quality and
efficiency of services provided.
(a) Targeting and Equity. To reduce subsidies for
center-based care for children of middle-class families
otherwise able to afford adequate child care and
feeding, the ICBF would pursue a policy to reduce direct
funding for its Pre-school Child Care Centers, or CAIPs.
A 30Z decrease in ICBF budget funding for the CAIPs is
targetted by 1995. Policy implementation measures
include increasing and enforcing fees on an ability-to-
pay basis. In addition, possibilities for privatizing
the CAIPs or turning them over to communities or company
social funds to manage and finance will be studied and
recommendations considered and implemented accordingly.
(b) Cost-effectiveness and Efficiency. To ensure the
cost-effectiveness of production of a national
nutritionil supplement, Bienestarina, alternatives to
current ICBF production and distribution would be
considered. Commercial production, marketing and
distribution mechanisms for this effective nutritional
supplement would be assessed, including possibilities
for selling existing ICBF production plants to the
private sector.  Recommendations would be evaluated and
effected as warranted.
(c) Quality and Program Effectiveness. To prepare
children to enter the HBI program and to consolidate
gains in nutritional status of HBI children, provision
of basic health care and referral servicps would be
improved. The Ministry of Health and the ICBF have
agreed on an interim policy to improve access of HBI
users to effective health care providers, described in a
separate letter signed by the Minister of Health, in
December 1989.
Policy execution would be supported by improvements in ICBF staff
and management capacity (e.g. in ICBF planning, programming and
monitoring and evaluation) to be effected during the HBI
expansion period.



ANNEX 7
- 36 -                         Page 3 of 4
Further, impact evaluation of HBI outcomes would be introduced with DANE
support, through addition of a socio-economic survey. This and other
measures are set forth in the action plan for policy and institutional
development for the ICBF. attached to this letter. Progress towards the
implementation of these policy and institutional targets will be monitored
continuously by the ICBF's Planning Office. Achievements and shortfalls in
these areas will be a key determinant in annual programs of investment in
cooperation with the World Bank.
With the policy and institutional changes described above, the
continuous adaptation and effectiveness of the HBI program within the
overall ICBF effort should be assured. In view of the priority given to
the HBI program, we look forward to the planned support of the World Bank.
With best regards,
/s/ Jose Granada
Director General, ICBF
Attachment



- 37 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
I
Policy Letter Attachment - Summary Plan of Action for
Implementing Key Policy and Management Support Measures
Objective           Responsible        Strategy             Action(s)         Target Date
Unit
POLICY OBJECTIVE
Reduce ICBF         ICBF (Planning)   Analyze and           Complete study   6/91
contribution to    DNP (Human          recommend            choose            9/91
CAIPs budget.       Resources).        alternative          alternatives(s)
management,          implement         from
financing and        changes.          1/92
possibly use of
present CAIP
facilities and
staff.
Reduce ICBF budget  Implement 122    done
contribution to      real reduction
CAIPs (as interim   for 1990.
measure) by 30Z.    Complete           12/95
reduction.
Im rove cost-       ICBF (Planning)   Analyze and
efyectiveness of   DNP (Human          recommend            Complete study   12/91
Bienestarina.       Resources).        alternative          choose
production,          alternative
marketing and        implement         from
distribution         changes.          1/92
arrangements.
INSTITUTIONAL
OBJECTIVE
Strengthen          ICBF (Dir. Gen.   Assess key ICBF       Complete          6/91
Structure and       and Planning).    needs for             review.
Staff of ICBF.                         improving
guidance7support
and reducing
implementation.
Introduce                              from 7/91
structural                             and staff
staffing and                           training from
procedural                             7/90.
changes.
Assess potential    Complete           6191
for sys tematic use  survey.
of NG  staff by      Implement pilot  from 6/91.
ICBF.                efforts to
contract NGOs.
Improve planning   ICBF (Planning)   Introduce new MIS.  Complete and         6/91
and monitoring                                              introduce.
capacity of ICBF.
Introduce impact   ICBF (Planning)   Develop evaluation  Complete and         6/91
evaluation of HBI  DANE.               design.              introduce.
program.



ANNEX 8
- 38 -                    Page 1 of 7
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Project Studies
A. CAIPs - Study on Future Management and Financing
1.       OBJECTIVES
To assess and recommend alternative arrangements for the future
management and financing of the CAIPs. Emphasis would be given to
evaluating potential for turning the centers over to communities (local
government) or other public or private entities for continued use as pre-
school day care centers, or where demand is insufficient, as centers for
other community service programs.
The assessment would be carried out in two phases.  The first
phase would focus on the systematic collection of information on the costs
of operating the CAIPs, on current resources available to the CAIPs and on
an inventory of the value and status of CAIPs' buildings and equipment. A
survey to determine potential community and private interest and support
for managing and financing the CAIPs would also be included under the first
phase. Recommendations would be offered on future use and financing
arrangements for the CAIPs.
The second phase of the study would focus on refining the
recommendations and incorporating views of several interest groups
(including employers, current CAIPs' staff) to lead to decisions on the
future use and management of the CAIPs. Pilot designs would be developed
for practical testing of alternative management and financing arrangements,
whether through public, private or combined public-private arrangements.
2.       METHODOLOGY
The first phase of the study will center on analysis of existing
information on the CAIPs, use of questionnaires for inventory purposes, and
a sample survey to be carried out to assess potential for community or
private sector inputs.
The second phase of the study will involve a presentation of a
position paper for review and decisions by ICBF management based on the
earlier analysis. Models for piloting promising alternatives should be
appended.
3.       CONSULTANT EXPERTISE NEEDED
- economistlfinancial analyst - 6 months
- labor law expert - 3 months
- sociologist/community development expert with survey skills -
6 months



ANNEX 8
- 39 -                   Page 2 of 7
4.       DURATION
The study would be carried out during a 12-month period ending
June 1991.
5.       COSTS
Consultants services:  US$23,000 equivalent
Survey                 US$15,000 equivalent
Consultant Travel and
Incidental             US$10,000 equivalent
TOTAL                  US$58,000 equivalent
6.       MANAGEMENT AND REVIEW
The study would be guided by a group comprising ICBF and DNP
staff. The group would be advised by labor, employers and community
representatives.



ANNEX 8
- 40 -                    Page 3 of 7
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
B. Bienestarina
Cost-effectiveness of Production, Distribution and Marketing
1.       OBJECTIVES
To evaluate the process of production, distribution, storage,
future marketing, and the impact of Bienestarina, presenting alternatives
for short, medium and longer-term decisions.
- Short-term:
To eval.uate th. cost-effectiveness of inputs needed for producing
Bienestsrina.
To evaluate the listribution, storage and future marketing of
Bienestarina.
- Medium-Term:
With the preceding assessments, to present alternative solutions
for Bienestarina management.
- Long-Term:
Evaluate nutritional impact and make a cost-benefit study of
Bienestarina.
2.       METHODOLOGY
First Phase Study (short- and medium-term)
Input Assessment - Study of the following:
- Possible substitution inputs
- Imports - donations
- National production
- Marketing of inputs
- Flow of financial resources
- ICBF administrative arrangements for obtaining inputs
- Required volume and cost
An existing study, prepared by the Institute of Technological
Investigations (IIT), covers some of the above themes and will serve as the
basis for further assessment.



ANNEX 8
- 41 -                   Page 4 of 7
For distribution, storage and marketing, the following points will
be evaluated:
- Administrative management
- Storage capacity
- Distribution capacity
- Costs
- Unsatisfied demand
Based on the above assessments, alternatives for improvement will
be presented, including an assessment of the possibility of transferring
the Bienestarina plants to the private sector, to ensure efficiency of she
program.
Second Phase Study (Long-term)
This study will comprise two parts: nutritional impact and cost-
benefit analysis of Bienestarina.
To evaluate the nutritional impact of Bienestarina a longitudinal
study would be conducted comparing a group of pregnant and lactating women,
and children receiving Bienestarina, with a similar control group. The
independent variable would be the nutritional intervention with
Bienestarina, and the dependent variable the nutritional status of the
women and children, with rigorous control of other variables.
For the cost-benefit study, econometric techniques will be
employed to permit comparison between a group receiving Bienestarina and a
control group. The economic cost of the consumption of Bienestarina will
be weighed against the benefits obtained among the sample group in terms of
nutritional status of mothers, birth weight of babies, malnutrition in the
first years of life, disease and death rates, better academic achievement
and adult productivity and variations in regional patterns of food
consumption.
Background information for this assessment can be found in ICBF
documents and in the study on nutrition included under the Bank-assisted
Health Project, Loan 2611-CO.
3.       EXPERIENCE AND EXPERTISE REQUIRED FOR THE STUDY
First Phase.   The group of consultants should include:
- an agricultural economist - 4 months
- a marketing expert/economist - 4 months
- an administrative legal expert/lawyer - 4 months
Second phase. The group of consultants should include:
- an epidemiolog'dt - 6 months
- a statistician - 8 months
- a nutritionist - 8 months
- an econoiaetrician - 6 months



ANNEX 8
- 42 -                    Page 5 of 7
4.       SCHEDULE
The first phase study should be completed by March 31, 1991. The
second phase study should be completed two years after initiation, by
December 31, 1991.
5.       COSTS
The global cost of the study is estimated at US$200,000
equivalent. Detailed estimates would be prepared together with outlines of
the proposed work programs by the consultants by July 1990.
6.       MANAGEMENT
The study would be managed by a team comprising staff of the ICBF
and the National Planning Department (DNP).



ANNEX 8
- 43 -                    Page 6 of 7
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
C. ICBF Structure and Staffing
1.       OBJECTIVES
To continu'e work underway to improve the flexibility of the
structure and staff of ICBF to meet changing requirements and demands for
its services, in particular, to continue a move away from direct
implementation resporsibilities towards program guidance and technical
support for decentralized activities.
2.       SCOPE OF WORK
This a signment will be divided in two parts: design of proposals
for organizational, staffing and procedural changes within the ICBF
structure; and, further work on design of experiments to inccrporate NGO
and other experienced entities in HBI activities.
The organ.izational review will build on recently compiled
information on the structure, staffing and practices of the ICBF, with a
view towards better meeting future needs. The emphasis would be on further
decentralization of direct program management responsibilities to the
community level. Emphasis will be given to assessing probable changes in
the skills mix and functions required. A series of recommendations for
review should be prepared for the Director General of the ICBF over the
near-term.
The use of NGOs and other experienced entities in the delivery of
HBI services will depend on the development of action models for
incorporating these agencies. The models will be based on criteria
designed to exclude unqualified entities and to encourage efficiency in the
provision of services. The consultancy would emphasize assessment of the
feasibility of use of NGO staff on short- and longer-term bases -- as a
cost-effective substitute for expanding full-time ICBF staff and the
consultants would propose procedures and experiments to incorporate NGOs
systematically in the HBI program.
3.       METHODOLOGY
The organizational review will be based mainly on data collected
during 1988-89 or existing staff, structures and responsibilities, and on
limited surveys to assess in particular variations in use of ICBF staff and
community participants in large programs such as the HBI. A review board,
comprising ICBF managers and the Director General as well as
representatives of other agencies (public and private) will guide the work
with a view to formulating practicable recommendations over the next year
for acceptance by the Board of Directors of the ICBF.



ANNEX 8
- 44 -                    Page 7 of 7
The design of the pilot programs for increasing NGOs and other
forms of community participation in the HBI program will be based on review
of successful models currently employed. A survey is underway; the further
work on this theme will continue from this base and will take the form of
practical experiments rather than a study per se.
4.       PROFESSIONAL EXPERTISE REQUIRED
- organization/management expert
- government staffing/legal expert
- NGO expert
- community management expert
5.       DURATION
This organizational review would be undertaken during 1990. The
second part of the study would be initiated in 1990 and consultant services
would be required periodically thereafter.
6.       COSTS
The first part of the study will require about 12 months of local
consultants' services; the second part would require a similar input.
The overall cost for services would be:
consultants services (24 months): US$48,000 equivalent
travel and support services:       US$10,000 equivalent
Total:          US$58,000 equivalent
7.       MANAGEMENT
The consultants would be managed by the review board. described
above.



ANNEX 9
-45 -                        Page l of l
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
The ICBF Training System
1.       The proposed training system, to be introduced under the project,
is based on a partnership between SENA and the ICBF. ICBE staff with
technical experi2nce in the design and delivery of the HBI and other
programs are responsible for identifying training requirements; SENA staff
with training experience at the community level are responsible for
translating those needs into practical training plans, materials and a,
delivery system. The initial arrangement is based on a two-year contract
between the two agencies, with a view to renewal after 1991.
2.       The training effort would be institutionalized as a regular
feature of ICBF programs, beginning with the HBI program. Orientation and
training would be provided regularly for all program participants,
including ICBF staff at the regional and local levels (including contract
or NGO staff, where relevant) and community participants (including
community mothers, parents associations and boards, and eventually other
public and private entities contributing to the program, e.g., local
governments and local wholesale suppliers of food).
3.       Tne system is based on instructional modules.  Each module is
designed to present basic practical knowledge required to carry out
effectively a particular task. Flexibility in design of each module is
emphasized since necessary knowledge may vary according to local
characteristics of a community. For purposes of illustration, the training
modules for community mothers are organized around five main themes:
operating the home, child health, child feeding and nutrition, child
development, and legal assistance for children. Other examples of key
areas for development of training activities include assessing program
needs, supervis:.on of HBI program expansion and budget execution;
organization of community committees and selection of community mothers;
management of bank accounts and petty cash; purchasing food, fuel and other
services.
4.       The training methods to be employed center on group learning
techniques. Groups sill meet regularly and be supported by an ICBF cr SENA
facilitator. Community volunteers with relevant experience could also be
used. The training materials would regularly comprise simple print
materials with illustrations as well as tapes and slides. Video materials
would be introduved on an occasional basis. In areas where SENA has
regional offices, radio programs would also be incorporated.
5.       Examples of objectives of training modules are included in the
Project File (Annex 14) together with a training schedule for 1990-91.



ANNEX 10
- 46 -                    Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Financial and Administrative Procedures and Controls for the HBIs
1.       Management procedures for the HBI program were designed to respond
both to the reporting requirements of the ICBF and the auditing
requirements of the Controller General of Colombia. They are summarized in
the following paragraphs.
2.       Administrative Procedures.  The zonal and local offices of the
ICBF, reporting through the regional offices, provide the central planning
office of the ICBF with pertinent information on the status of HBIs (e.g.,
new openings, number of children served, activities of parents'
associstions and conmmunity mothers). They also confirm expenditures and
provide summaries of expenditures against planned by type (e.g., stipends,
food purchases). To avert the need for returning documents for correction,
the zonal and local offices correct errors and advise the associations on
corrections. Corrected reports ore submitted as the basis for payments to
the regional or central level. The central ICBF lists associations to be
included in the next withdrawal, based on programs and unit costs. The
regional pay officer then approves release of the next to last disbursement
requested. Approval is based on:
-  presentation of the summary of expenditures disaggregated by
type with supporting documentation;
- expenditure on equipment, replacement of equipment or didactic
materials, with accompanying receipts;
- expenditure on food, fuel, or other services, signed by the
providers;
- stipends, based on notarized signatures of the community
mothers.
All supporting evidenca is kept available for review by the office of the
regional auditor.
3.       Payments. Confirmation of intent to pay is carried out through a
statement of an amount to be withdrawn for a group of associations
(typically grouped by bank). Adjustments in authorized amounts are made in
the case of selected activities (e.g., repayments of house upgrading loans
by commurnity mothers), with the payment due directed automatically to the
relevant authority (e.g., the ITC).
4.       Withdrawals.  To avoid the need for legal representatives in the
regions, payments are made directly to financial intermediaries, banks or
public corporations; where such entities are lacking, checks are issued in
the names of parents' associations. Once payments are authorized, parents'
associations are notified. Payments are aggregated to cover all expe,.ses
of each association. In the case of home upgrading credits not managed
through the new contract with SENA, existing procedures would be followed.
These provide for direct withdrawals in the community mothers' name after
taking account of repayments due and based on progress with works as
verified by local supervisors or the parents' associations.



- 47 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Project Costs by Year and Category of Expenditure
(US$ millions)
90      91       92      93      94       95        Total
Civil Works                 6.98    5.25    4.88    3.00    -          -         20.11
Equipment
Training                  0.51    0.01    0.08    0.07    0.09    0.08          0.84
MIS                       0.47    0.77    0.51    -         -        -          1.75
Training Materials          0.27    0.20    0.27    0.27    0.43    0.48           1.92
Training (Delivery)         0.75    1.02    1.11    1.17    1.25    1.27           6.57
Program Coordination        0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05           0.30
Studies and Evaluation      0.20    0.37    0.28    0.10    0.10    0.05           1.10
Base Costs:               9.23    7.67    7.18    4.66    1.92    1.93         32.59
Base Costs plus Physical
Contingencies         9.30    7.74    7.24    4.69    1.95    1.96         32.88
Price Contingencies         0.92    1.39    1.73    1.49    0.81    0.98           7.32
Total:            10.22    9.13    8.97    6.18    2.76    2.94         40.20
Costs exclude taxes and duties.



- 48 -                       ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements and Limits by Type
Table 1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Project Element            ICB       LCB      Other       NA       Subtotal
Civil Works Credits                              24.6                  24.6
(12.6)                (12.6)
Equipment                      2.0      0.7       0.5                   3.2
(2.0)    (0.2)    (0.2)                  (2.4)
Printed Materials             1.6       0.6       0.4                   2.6
and Supplies              (0.5)    (0.2)    (0.1)                   (0.8)
Training                                          8.2                   8.2
(6.6)                 (6.6)
Technical Assistance                              1.6                   1.6
(1.6)                 (1.6)
Total                          3.6      1.3      35.3                  40.2
(2.5)    (0.4)   (21.1)                 (24.0)
Note. Figures in parentheses represent Bank loan financing.
Technical assistance includes program coordination as well as studies
and evaluation.



- 49 -                              ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD NUTRITION PROJECT
Table 2: PROCUREMENT LIMITS BY TYPE
Expected Number Average Value  Aggregate         Type Of
Component       Contract Value         of  Contracts   of  Contracts    Limit        Procurement
(US$)                                  (USS)         (US1)
Civil Works       lose than 760                  na.         500 !/      24,600,000    Shopping
(as feasible).
Equipment         loss than 20,000              82           16,000         480,000    Shopping
more than 20,000
& less than 250,000            4           180,000        720,000    LCB
more than 260,000              1        2,000,000       2,000,000    ICa
Printed           less than 20,000              28           16,000         388,000    Shopping
Materials        more than 20,000
and Supplies     A lese than 250,000             4          168,000         632,000    LCB
more than 260,000              4           2S8,000      1,600,000    ICa
Training               na.                       n.a.              n.a.   6,200,000    Local
arrangements
Technical         less than 250,000             25           64,000       1,600,000    Ouldelines
Assistance k/
!/ Average value of works, including w2terials and labor, which could be contracted together or
separately.
O Evaluation, studies and program coordination.



ANNEX 13
- 50 -                             Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CARE AND NUTRITION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year              Disbursements             1
and semester            Semester Cumulative   (Cumulative)        Semester
1991    1st            0.5         0.5            2                1
2nd            0.7        1.2            5                2
1992    1st            1.0         2.2            9                3
2nd            1.4        3.6           15                4
1993    1st            2.3         5.9           24                5
2nd            3.0        8.9           37                6
1994    1st            3.0        11.9           50                7
2nd            3.0       14.9           62                8
1995    1st            3.2        18.1           75                9
2nd            2.1       20.2           84               10
1996    1st            3.3        23.5           98               11
2nd            0.5       24.0          100               12



ANNEX 14
- 51 -                            Page 1 of 1
COLOMBIA
COMMUNITY CHILD CAR! AND NU'RITION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Report and Studies Related to the Sector
A.1  World Bank discussion paper, "The Eleven Who Survive:  Toward
a Re-Examination of Early Childhood Development Program
Options and Costsn, Robert Myers, March 1987.
B. Selected Documents and Reports Relating to the Project
B.l Project preparation documents prepared by the ICBF dated
October 1988 and December 19, 1988.
B.2 Working papers on the proposed ICBF training system prepared
by the ICBF, including prototype materials and the training
schedule for 1990.
B.3 HBI assessment ("Estudio de Caracterizacion de los Hogares de
Bienestar Infantil del ICBFf) prepared by the ICBF Planning
Office, dated January 1989.
B.4 Manu'al on administrative and financial control procedures for
the HBI program prepared by the ICBF (no date).
C. Selected Working Papers
C.1 Working papers on Bienestarina prepared by the ICBF
Subdirectorate for Nutrition, dated October 18, 1986 and
March 3, 1989.



78C                                              74,                                               CUBA
HAIZI  DOMINICAN  EP.
JAMAICAKAT
O1NDIURAS
-12-                   C O COLOMBIA                                                                     12  NICARAGUA   /
I_CA; .   .       VENEZUELA   
o                                 PANAMA             ,      (,         . GUIANA
ECUAD    \ C  't
Carta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
BRAZIL
r  APARAkbY
PANAMA                                                                                                                      ARGENTINA 5 I
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04                                               r! .   t         MMSC   C   C4tWCC
r   Nl l.
t            {     80n~~ooenco             Bza-*
ANTt        Q 1A                .A                                      A    .  VENEZUELA
_4                        C C-        '   \ .     >._<   >                     4-
.......A.                           ./                     - A        A   F    7
C     '      v't A LI   I! A 
CAIJ   A   \H/1 &                                 G        C- A v   A R EA
Ns 6 A R I> N'_,st 
7t    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) ~~~~~V  A                                       1JIJ$ 
10                                                                           r~~~~~~1
'E C  U  A  D  O  R   *-,5   'g     
\ 5.000.000 -'rsons                                                                        MEO 50   200  150
Ufban Populat.on of Conto, Towns      Eleyot,ons (neters)                                                                 ______T___ I
5000000 psons                                                                                       ;         SC   100  150  200  250
Xd -2,000.000                         3.000             -s\                                                    I            KILOMETERS
:, , -1.00         000,000               -     1000                                "
E 50,000 O ^                          0                                                                             B R A Z I L
*     Notonal Cap.taI l                              !
o     C.es and Towns w.th PFpulptIon Over 40,000
-   Man  Hggh.ays
-   -   Departnent, Intendencto, and Comlscrlo BEundarie/
Ine,nat,onotl boundores                                                     /          |
4.           78-                                                74-
NOVEMBER 1988



