Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3201-CO
Project Agreement
(Community Child Care and Nutrition Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE BIENESTAR FAMILIAR
Dated August 1, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3201-CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank)  and INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE BIENESTAR FAMILIAR (ICBF).
WHEREAS  (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four million dollars 
($24,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that ICBF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
ICBF, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made 
available to ICBF on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary agreement; 
and
WHEREAS ICBF,  in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ICBF declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, child care, and health practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project and each Annual Implementation Plan.
(b)
As part of, and without limitation to, the foregoing, ICBF shall enter 
into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Fiduciary for purposes, inter 
alia, of transferring to the Fiduciary, in its capacity as administrator, the proceeds 
of the Loan required to make Subloans under Part C.2 of the Project.
(c)
(i) ICBF undertakes that, Subloans shall be made in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the Operational Manual; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, ICBF shall not amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any 
provision of the Operational Manual.
(d)
ICBF shall execute its rights in relation to each Subloan in such manner 
as to (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and ICBF, (ii) comply with 
all its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
(e)
ICBF shall duly perform all of its obligations under the Fiduciary 
Agreement and Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank and ICBF shall otherwise agree, 
ICBF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving said agreements, or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.02. ICBF shall:
(a)
carry out under terms or reference satisfactory to the Bank: (i) not 
later than March 31, 1991, the study referred to in Part A.l of the Project; (ii) not 
later than September 30, 1991, the study referred to in Part A.2 of the Project; and 
(iii) not later than March 31, 1991, the study referred to in Part B.l of the Project;
(b)
promptly upon the completion of each such study, furnish to the Bank a 
copy of its recommendations and findings;
(c)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
recommendations and findings;
(d)
based on the recommendations and findings of each study, and the Bank's 
comments thereon, furnish to the Bank action plans, satisfactory to the Bank, (i) not 
later than June 30, 1991, in respect of the studies referred to in (a) (i) and (a) 
(iii) above and (ii) not later than December 31, 1991, in respect of the study 
referred to in (a) (ii) above; and
(e)
carry out such action plans in a manner and according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. ICBF shall put into effect in terms satisfactory to the Bank: (a) 
not later than June 30, 1991, the management information system included under Part 
B.2 of the Project; and (b) not later than June 30, 1991, the monitoring and impact 
Page  3
evaluation systems referred to under Part B.3 of the Project.
Section 2.04. In the carrying out of the training programs under the Project, 
ICBF shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank for approval the content of such programs as well as 
the schedule for their implementation;
(b)
select the beneficiaries of such training programs in accordance with 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each of such training program and the benefits 
to be derived therefrom.
Section 2.05. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, ICBF shall, prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than August 
31 each year, a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall reasonably request 
on the execution of the Project and the Program and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom, such report to include, inter alia, specific information on the amount and 
kind of the subsidies provided by ICBF and other agencies of the Borrower with regard 
to the sub loans under Part C.2 of the Project;
(b)
Without limitation to Section 2.11 (a) of this Agreement, not later than 
September 30 of each year, ICBF shall exchange views with the Bank on the execution of 
the Project and the Program.
Section 2.06. ICBF shall: (a) based on the results of the exchange of views 
referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of this Agreement, prepare and furnish to the Bank for 
approval, not later than November 30 of each year, a detailed plan (including policy, 
institutional and investment activities) for the execution of the Program during the 
following calendar year (the Annual Implementation Plan); (b) carry out each Annual 
Implementation Plan in a manner and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the 
Bank; and (c) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, not change an Annual 
Implementation Plan or any part thereof once it has been agreed with the Bank.
Section 2.07. ICBF shall: (a) maintain staff, in number and positions 
satisfactory to the Bank, to adequately manage and supervise the implementation of the 
Project and the Program; and
(b)
without limitation to (a) above, maintain, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank, the staff referred to in Section 6.01 (b) of the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) ICBF shall carry out the Subsidy Reduction Plan with due 
diligence and efficiency and in a manner and according to a timetable satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(b)
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ICBF shall not amend, suspend or 
abrogate the Subsidy Reduction Plan or any part thereof.
Section 2.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan,
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. ICBF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) ICBF shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the Program, the performance of its 
obligations under this
Agreement, the Subloan Agreements, Fiduciary Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
ICBF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the carrying out of each 
Annual Implementation Plan, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the 
performance by ICBF of its obligations under this Agreement and the agreements 
referred to in (a) above.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ICBF
Section 3.01. ICBF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, health and nutritional practices 
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate number.
Section 3.02. ICBF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ICBF shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial
condition including separate records and accounts at the national, zonal and local 
levels to reflect the resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
ICBF shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies  of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of ICBF 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify ICBF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Page  5
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radio gram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such 
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAERAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For ICBF:
Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar
Avenida 68, Numero 64.01
Bogota, D.E. Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
ICBFA
43289 MHACO
Bogota
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ICBF may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other person or persons as the 
Director General shall designate in writing, and the Director General shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO COLOMBIANO DE BIENESTAR FAMILIAR
Page  6
By /s/ Ximena de Casalino
Authorized Representative
