Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3201-CO
Loan Agreement
(Community Child Care and Nutrition Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 1, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3201-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 1, 1990, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having been satisfied as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar 
Familiar (ICBF) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make
available to ICBF the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
ICBF;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a child care provider selected by the relevant 
community and approved by ICBF for participating in the Program (as hereinafter 
defined) in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Bienestarina" means the nutritional supplement provided by ICBF to 
children in CAIPS (as hereinafter defined) and HBI (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"CAIPS" means Centros de Atencion Integral al Preescolar, ICBF's 
pre-school child care centers;
(d)
"Fiduciary" means a financial institution, duly established under the 
laws of the Borrower, which is acceptable to the Bank and has entered into the 
Fiduciary Agreement (as
hereinafter defined);
(e)
"Fiduciary Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
be entered into between the Fiduciary and ICBF referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the 
Project Agreement;
(f)
"HBI" means Hogar de Bienestar Infantil, a community child care home 
financed by ICBF under the Program;
(g)
"CONPES" means the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de Politica Economica y 
Social;
(h)
"house upgrading subproject" means a project consisting in the upgrading 
of the Beneficiary's house used as an HBI in accordance with the criteria and 
procedures set forth in the
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(i)
"Operational Manual" means the Manual of policies and procedures for the 
execution of Part C.2 of the Project to be approved by ICBF;
(j)
"Program" means the Borrower's Programa de Hogares de Bienestar Familiar 
(Community Child Care and Nutrition Program) designed to improve resource management 
for community child care and nutrition, including technical assistance, training and a 
1990-1995 investment program, as described in the letter dated December 22, 1989 from 
ICBF to the Bank and approved by CONPES on
April 24, 1990, as such Program may be amended in agreement with the Bank;
(k)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and ICBF of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(1)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(m)
"Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by ICBF, through the 
Fiduciary, to a Beneficiary for purposes of financing a house upgrading sub project in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the Operational Manual;
(n)
"Subloan Agreements" means an agreement between the ICBF and a 
Beneficiary providing for a Subloan;
(o)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Page  3
Borrower and ICBF pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(p)
"Subsidy Reduction Plan" means ICBF's action plan for reducing in real 
terms, by 1995, direct subsidies to the ongoing CAIPS program to no more than 70% of 
the 1989 level, approved by CONPES on April 24, 1990 and described in the attachment 
of ICBF's letter of December 22, 1989 to the Bank;
(q)
"Legislations means the Borrower's ley 75 of 1968, ley 27 of 1974, ley 07 
of 1979, decreto reglamentario 2388 of 1979, decreto 334 of 1980, ley 55 of 1985, 
decreto 2480 of 1985, ley 89 of 1988, and decreto 2019 of 1989 all as amended to this 
date; and
(r)
"HBI Participants" means the children participating in the program
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of twenty-four million dollars 
($24,000,000), as the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower, shall for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Borrower's Banco de la Republica on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of l%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
Page  4
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii)  'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause ICBF to 
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of ICBF therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate 
to enable ICBF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to ICBF under 
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ICBF, under terms 
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in 
such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) take or cause to be taken all necessary 
actions to: (i) ensure that every child will be vaccinated prior to entering the 
Program in accordance with
appropriate health practices; and (ii) establish, not later than October 31, 1990, 
Page  5
criteria and arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, for identifying and meeting 
additional health needs among HBI Participants; and (b) provide all necessary funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for such purposes.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by ICBF 
pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall, or shall cause ICBF to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure or cause to ensure that all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable or cause to enable the Bank's representatives to examine 
such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall, or shall cause ICBF to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of such year the report of such 
audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
ICBF shall have failed to perform any of its obligation under the Project 
Agreement;
(b)
As a result of events which have occur Ed after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it in 
probable that ICBF will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement;
Page  6
(c)
the Legislation or ICBF's organizational structure or functions shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of ICBF to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement; and 
(d)
that any party has failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Fiduciary Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraphs (a) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
ICBF has approved the Operational Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
ICBF shall have employed, all with terms of employment, qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank, a program coordinator, a financing advisor 
and an assistant to the financing advisor;
(c)
ICBF and the Fiduciary shall have entered into the Fiduciary Agreement; 
and
(d)
the Borrower and ICBF shall have entered into the Subsidiary Agreement.
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, 
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the parties thereto and is legally binding 
upon the parties thereto in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)
on behalf of ICBF that (i) the Operational Manual has been validly 
approved by ICBF in accordance with the Legislation, (ii) the Project Agreement has 
been authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of ICBF and is 
legally binding upon ICBF in accordance with its terms, and (iii) the Fiduciary 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on 
behalf or the parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties thereto in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date November 1, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito
   Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota, D.E.
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHACCO
Bogota
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America,  as of the day and year first 
above written. 
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Ximena de Casalino
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane Choksi
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdraval of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
                              Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Subloans under            11,700,000        51% of amounts
    Part C.2 of                                 disbursed under
    the Project                                 each Subloan
(2) Goods under                2,900,000        100% of foreign
    Parts B and C.l                             expenditures and
    of the Project                              30% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'               1,400,000        100%
    services under
    Parts A, B and D
    of the Project
(4) Training under             6,100,000        80%
    Part C.l of the
    Project
(5)  Unallocated               1,900,000
         TOTAL                24,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$2,400,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after June 30, 1989; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures for any goods, works or services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Loan unless such goods, works or services are 
included in an Annual Implementation Plan approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 
2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist ICBF in the carrying out of the 
Program (of which the Project is a part thereof) and in particular: (a) to introduce 
and carry out policies aimed at improving the cost-effectiveness of ICBF's operations; 
(b) to support the institutional development of ICBF, including strengthening its 
technical support, planning and monitoring
capabilities; and (c) to evaluate, improve and maintain at an appropriate level, the 
quality of HBI services while increasing the number of HBIs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Page  9
Part A:
A program, including the execution of studies to improve the use of ICBF's 
resources by:  (1) establishing revised financing arrangements for the CAIPS; and (2) 
improving the efficiency of
production, distribution and marketing of Bienestarina.
Part B:
A program to strengthen the management capacity of ICBF, including: (1) a study 
on changes in the organizational structure and staffing of ICBF; (2) the establishment 
of an integrated,
computer-based management information system for planning, programming, budgeting and 
monitoring ICBF's programs and activities; (3) introducing and implementing a 
monitoring and an impact
evaluation system for the Program on a national scale;  and (4) technical assistance 
and training,  and the acquisition and utilization of equipment and materials, 
required for such purposes.
Part C:
A program to support improvements in the nutritional, health and educational 
aspects of ICBF's Program, including: (1) the provision of continuous training for 
community mothers and other community participants in charge of HBIs on food handling, 
nutrition, health record-keeping, child development and HBI administration;  and (2) 
the provisions of Subloans for the financing of house upgrading subprojects.
Part D:
Technical assistance to ICBF for management and coordination of the Program and 
the Project.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1996
through August 15, 2007
1,000,000
 
