Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 17174-ME
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$180.2 MILLION
TO
RANORAS, S.N.C.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCING PROJECT
June 4, 1998
Mexico Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Carihhean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pesos ($)
US$1.00 = $8.00
Fiscal Year                                Academic Year
January 1 - December 31                       September 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BANOBRAS   National Bank of Public Services and Works (Banco Nacional de Obrasy Servicios Publicos S.N. C.)
CIEES   The Inter-institutional Committees for the Evaluation of Higher Education (Comites
Interinstitucionales para la Evaluacion de la Educaci6n Superior)
CONACYT    National Council of Science and Technology (Consejo Nacional de Cienciasy Tecnologia)
CONAEVA    National Commission for the Evaluation of Higher Education (Comisi6n Nacional para la
Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior)
FIMPES   Mexican Federation of Private Universities (Federaci6n de Instituciones Mexicanas Particulares de
Educaci6n Superior)
ICEES   Student Loan Institute of the State of Sonora (Instituto de Credito Educativo del Estado de Sonora)
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
1DB    Inter-American Development Bank
PAREB    Second Primary Education Project (Programa para Abatir el Rezago en Educaci6n Basica)
PIARE    Primary Education Project, financed by IDB
PRODEI   Initial Education Project (Proyecto para el Desarrollo de la Educaci6n Inicial)
RPF   Reserve and Payment Fund    -
SHCP   Federal Ministry of Finance (Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Pzublico)
SEP   Federal Ministry of Education (Secretaria de Educaci6n Pblica)
SOEs   Statements of Expenses
SOFES   Society for the Promotion of Higher Education - FIMPES's financial intermediary for its student loan
program (Sociedad de Fomento a la Educaci6n Superior)
UNAM    Autonomous National University of Mexico
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice President             Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director           Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Leader              Ms. Carmen Hamann
Task Manager               Mr. Jamil Salmi



MEXICO
Higher Education Financing
Table of Contents
Page No.
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION .....................................2
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES ................................                           ,          .2
2. PROJECT COMPONENTS ............................                     .           .         .          .         .         2
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION: ...........................................:                                   .2
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: ...........................................4
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE .......................5..                                     ,           ,          ......5
5. CAS OBJECTIVE(S) SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT ....................................... ...................5
6. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: ...............................5...................5
7. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES: .............. 7
8. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION: ..........                                         .................7
9. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT
AGENCIES .....................................................................8
10. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN: ..............                                   ........................9
1 1. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER AND RECIPIENT COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP: ...........  10
12. VALUE ADDED OF BANK  SUPPORT: ....................................................................    10
BLOCK  3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS ....................................................................                            11
13. ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT ..................................................................... I 1
14. FINANCiAL ASSESSMENT ......................                          .............................................. 12
15. TECHNICAL ASS              ESSMENT: ....................................................................               13
16. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT: ..................................                        .................................. 13
17.  SOCiAL ASSESSMENT: .................................................................... 13
18. ENVIRONMEN TAL ASSESSMENT: ....................................................................                        13
19. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH: .....................                                                                          13
20. SUSTAINABILITY: .....................                                                                                  14
2 1. CRITICAL RISKS .....................                                                                                  14
22. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS: .................................. 15
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ...................................                                                                     15
23. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS ..........15.............                                                                     5
24.  OTHER ...................15................ 15
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES ................................... 16
ANNEx 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY .............................,, 17
ANNEX 2.A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRPTION ...............                                                                     30
ANNEX 2.B: TARGETING STRATEGY ...........................                         .                                        34
ANNEx 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS ..................                                                                        41
ANNEx 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS    ..42
ANNEx 5: FINANCIAL SUmmARY    ..56
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ................                                                        57
ANNEx 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE ............................................. 61
ANNEx 8: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS                                      ...................................... 62
ANNEx 9: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE ....................                                   .......................... 65
ANNEx 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                                     .............................................. 66



INTERNATIoNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIoN AND DEvELoPMENT
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Mexico Country Department
Project Appraisal Document
Mexico
Higher Education Financing Project
Date: May 8, 1998                                                           [ I  Draft      [Xl Final
Task Manager: Jamil Salmi                               Country Manager: Olivier Lafourcade
Project ID: MX-PE-49895  Sector: Education                        POC: Poverty Reduction, Private Sector Develpmt.
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Loan              PTI:        [XI Yes            [] No
Project Financing Data      [x] Loan    [ ] Credit         [   Guarantee   [  Grant  [   Other [Specify]
For IBRD Loan:
Loan Amount (US$m): US$ 180.2 million
Proposed Terms:                           [ ]   Multicurrency      [X] Single currency
Grace period (years): 5 years     [ I   Standard Variable    [   Fixed            [X1    LlBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15 years
Commitment fee: Standard
Service charge: Standard
Financing plan (US$M):
Source                         Local (Including.       Foreign               Total
Taxes)
IBRD                                                      179.0                1.2                 180.2
Government of Mexico (Federal)                            3.7                  -                    3.7
ICEES (with support from State of Sonora)                  1.3                 0.2                  1.5
SOFES                                                     19.7                 0.2                 19.9
Student/Household Contributions                           82.7                 -                   82.7
TOTAL          286.4                 1.6                287.9
Borrower: Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Puiblicos, S.N C (BANOBRAS)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Responsible agencies:
1. Sonora Student Loan Institute (ICEES, Instituto de Credito Educativo del Estado de Sonora)
2. The Society for the Promotion of Higher Education (SOFES, Sociedad de Fomento a la Educaci6n Superior), acting as the
financial intermediary of private universities members of the Mexican Federation of Private Universities (FIMPES, Federaci6n de
Instituciones Mexican as Particulares de Educaci6n Superior)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/USSM):   1999         2000        2001        2002      2003        2004
Annual 15.8         24.5        36.0        47.6      41.5        14.8
Cumulative 15.8        40.3        76.3        123.9     165.4       180.2
Expected effectiveness date: August 1998                            Closing date: February 29, 2004



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 2
Country: Mexico                                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
BLOCK 1: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
(SEE ANNEX I FOR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS):
The general development objective is to assist the Government in promoting greater equity and quality in the preparation of
university graduates.
Specific goals are to:
- improve access to higher education, particularly for academically qualified but financially needy students.
- develop more effective and financially sustainable student loan institutions.
Progress towards these development objectives will be monitored and assessed based on key output and development outcome/impact
indicators shown in Annex 1.
2. PROJECT COMPONENTS
(SEE ANNEX 2 FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTION AND ANNEX 3 FOR A DETAILED COST BREAKDOWN):
ComWanent                          Cateeov                  Cost ncl. Contingencies (US$M              %ofTotal
Investmnot Costs
A. Development of the Private   Sub-loans                          Private Sector Student Loan Scheme   Private Sector Student Loan Scheme
Sector Student Loan            Equipment                       (USS 237.1 mllion)                 (SOFES) = 82%
Scheme                         consultants
I Student Loans                StaffTraining                   Student Loans                      Studert Loans=       92%
Reserve Fund                      Sub-loans =           147.9     Inst Development =     8%
2 Institutional Development                                       Student Contributions =   63.4
Recurrent CoSts                   Reserve Fund =          7.4
Salaries of AdminL Staff        Sub-total Sident Loans=   218.6
Equipment, Oper. & Maintenance
Physical Contingencies          InstItutIonal Development
Price Contineencies                Equipment =            1.2
Taxes                              Technical Assistance =  1.0
Foreien Exchanee                   Traiing =              0.4
RecurrentCosts=      15.8
Sub-toti Inst Development 18.4
B. Strengthening of the Sonora  InvestenCosts
Sub-loans                       SONORA Student Loan Scheme         SONORA Student Loan Scheme
Student Loan Scheme            Equipment                        (US$ 50.8 mUlion)                 (ICEES) = 18%
1 Student Loans                Consultants
2 Institutional                Staff Training                   Student Loans                      Student Loans       95%
Strengthening                                                  Sub-loans  =            29.0    Inst Strengthening. =  5%
Student Contributions =  19.3
Recurrent Costs                 Sub-total Stdent Loans =    48.3
Salaries of Admin. Staff
Equipment, Oper. & Maintenance  Insdtutional Strengtnng
Physical Continencies              Equipment =             0.5
Price Contingencies                Technical Assistance =  0.6
Taxes                              Training=               0.2
Foreign Exchange                   Recurrent Costs =       1.2
Sub-totatInst Strengthening   2.5
Total  US$287.9 million                    100%
IBRD Financing   USS180.2 million                     63%
3. BENEFITS AND TARGET POPULATION:
Benefits. By increasing access to loans for qualified and financially needy students, the project would have a positive impact on the
coverage, quality and equity of higher education. The student loans contribute to increased equitable opportunities for participation
in higher education and ICEES managers and university administrators have observed that students who bear some part of the costs
of their education, whether they pay this up-front or borrow against their future earnings by taking out student loans, tend to be more
motivated and academically successful. For example, the completion rate of ICEES beneficiaries (85%) stands in sharp contrast
with the overall rate for the State of Sonora (53%). Furthemnore, the increased educational purchasing power of students would
allow them to place more legitimate demands on the quality of education. In other words, the demand-side financing supported by
the project can also indirectly stimulate improvements in the quality of public and private higher education in Mexico by
promoting



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                 Page 3
Country: Mexico                                                                           Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
competition. The changes in terms of coverage, equity and quality in the Mexican higher education system would also, in turn,
bring about economic and social benefits. More and better qualified graduates would improve the country's human resource pool,
allowing increases in productivity and competitiveness. In the case of Mexico, Booz Allen & Hamilton estimates that a 1% increase
in the number of professionals can lead to a 0.6% increase in national income, as well as a 0.4% increase in the level of salaries.
Middle-income Latin American countries such as Argentina, Chile and Mexico, which have liberalized their trade regimes in recent
years, have seen increased wage inequalities between secondary and higher education graduates. I As has happened in East Asia, the
growing demand for highly educated labor may reflect labor saving technological changes, complementarities between inflows of
new capitals and skill needs, and competitive pressures from lower-wage unskilled workers in poorer countries.
Mexican primary and secondary education students may also be indirectly benefited. Supporting demand-side financing may lead to
the protection of incremental public resources for primary and secondary education.2 The potential marginal impact of the
incremental funds may be negligible in terms of expanding basic education but could be significant in relation to its impact on the
non-salary basic education budget used to improve the educational quality.
Target Population.3 The direct beneficiaries of the project - the project's target population - are academically qualified students
facing difficulties to pursue their preferred advanced studies because of inadequate family income. Approximately 98% of these
Bank-financed loans will reach these beneficiaries directly through student loans.
More specifically, the direct beneficiaries of the SOFES loan scheme would be academically able but financially needy students
attending or wishing to enroll in private universities throughout the country. According to the Booz Allen & Hamilton study, there
is a potential market for the SOFES loans of 80,000 new students per year, as well as a significant proportion of the 320,000
students already enrolled in the private universities. Up to 66% of the potential market comes from low-income families and
approximately 75% of them have good academic histories (an average score of 8 out of 10 or higher in the bachillerato
examination). It has been estimated that, by the end of the project, SOFES will have provided loans to a minimum of 25,600
students, of which approximately 70% would come from middle-low to low-income families. Nonetheless, the complementary use
of loans and scholarships provides the potential to double the amount of beneficiaries (estimated at approximately 52,700 students).
SOFES aims at increasing the participation of low-income students from 20.7% in 1997 to 24.2% by 2003.4
The beneficiaries of the ICEES loan program would be academically qualified, low- and middle-income students born in or residents
of the state of Sonora, who wish to enroll in a recognized higher education institution. ICEES is aiming at almost doubling its
number of beneficiaries during the life of the project (five years) through a 12.5% increase in coverage per year. This additional
coverage would be financed through the IBRD funds. By the year 2002, ICEES would be providing credits to approximately 21,000
students - of which about 76% would be undergraduates, 4% graduate students, and the other 20% attending other institutions such
as technical schools. It is estimated that the proportion of Sonora students benefiting from a loan will grow from 16% to 23% for
undergraduate students and from 11% to 34% for graduate students. Furthermore, the percentage of low- and middle-income
students receiving ICEES loans will be maintained equal to or above the higher education enrollment rates in the State of Sonora for
these socioeconomic groups. Presently, about 75% of the recipients of ICEES loans come from low-income families and 24% from
middle-income families. In comparison, 72% of university students in the State of Sonora are low-income students and 26% are
middle-income.5
OECD (1997). Estudios Economicos de la OCDE: Mexico 1997. Pards, p. 159.
In 1992, the distribution of expenditures by educational levels was as follows: 28.6 for primary, 26.6% for secondary, 14.7% for higher education, and 23.9% unallocated.
(OCDE, Exdmenes de las Politicas Nacionales de Educscidn. OCDE Francia, 1997.)
See Annex 2.B for technical details on the targeting strategy and the methodology for defining the socioeconomic status of students.
SOFES carried out a study of the socioeconomic status of students in a representative sample of their member universities. This study not only provided base indicators on which to
gpge progres in social objectives but also insight into how to classify and evaluate students' socioeconomic background during the loan application process.
This data is based on the 1997 socioeconomic suivey of university students that was casnied out by ICEES in the State of Sonora.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 4
Country: Mexico                                                            Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
4. INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS:
Implementation period: July 1998 to August 2003
Executing agencies:
1) Sonora Student Loan Institute (ICEES, Instituto de Credito Educativo del Estado de Sonora)
2) The Society for the Promotion of Higher Education (SOFES, Sociedad de Fomento a la Educaci6n Superior), acting as financial
intermediary for pnvate universities members of the Mexican Federation of Private Universities (FIMPES - Federaci6n de
Instituciones Mexicanas Particulares de Educaci6n Superior).
Project Coordination: Each executing agency will coordinate the implementation of the component for which it is responsible.
ICEES will coordinate the component aimed at strengthening the Sonora Student Loan Scheme and SOFES will coordinate the
Development of the Private Sector Student Loan Scheme component. BANOBRAS will be responsible for overall supervision and
financial coordination.  At negotiations, BANOBRAS provided draft versions of the operational guidelines (Manual de
Procedimientos ICEES/BANOBRAS and Manual de Procedimientos SOFES/BANOBRAS) that clarify and guide the responsibilities
and relationships between the different executing agencies and BANOBRAS. It was agreed that new versions would be presented to
the Bank by effectiveness.
Project oversight. BANOBRAS will be the main agency responsible for project oversight. The Ministries of Finance (SHCP) and
of Education (SEP) will be responsible for providing overall policy guidance.
Legal and Financial Structure for Implementation. The Government has selected BANOBRAS to be the bofrower and trustee and
thus, to serve as the financial vehicle to receive and manage the World Bank loan proceeds for this project. The Government,
through SHCP, will constitute a Trust Fund for which BANOBRAS will act as Trustee and the Government as Grantor. The Trust
will be the vehicle to transfer the proceeds of the Loan to SOFES and ICEES. The Trust will receive contributions to the Reserve
and Payment Fund (RPF) from participating universities and from CONACYT, donations, and any additional resources aimed at
improving the financial viability of the student loan schemes. The Trust Fund will also receive repayments from SOFES and ICEES
corresponding to the servicing of the World Bank Loan and transfer the money back to the Federal Govermment (see Graph A and B
of Annex 2). The contract for the derivation of funds through BANOBRAS and the Trust Fund contract will be conditions of
effectiveness, as well as the necessary legal opinions.
The agreements between BANOBRAS, SOFES and the Federal Government (i.e., SHCP and SEP) and between BANOBRAS,
ICEES and the Federal Government, including the mechanisms for transferring the funds to executing agencies, were reviewed at
negotiations. As a condition of effectiveness, one of the appropriate onlending agreements between (a) BANOBRAS (trust fund)
and SOFES, or (b) BANOBRAS (trust fund) and ICEES must be drafted, approved and signed. Approval and signing of the other
one will be a condition of disbursement.
Annex 2 describes the institutional arrangements for managing the loan programs as well as the guarantee systems. A thorough
description, including operational manuals, can be found in the project file.
Procurement Arrangements. The procurement arrangements are detailed in Annex 6. The procurement of technology will be
integrated (equipment, software, training and installment) in order to avoid problems with different manufacturers.
Disbursement. The proposed project would be implemented over a period of approximately five years and is expected to be
completed by August 31, 2003 and closed by February 29, 2004. Disbursements would be carried out in accordance with the
category of expenditures and allocations shown in Annex 6. Training expenditures will include didactic materials, classroom use
charges, instructor fees, tuition, and travel and per diem expenses of trainees. Retroactive financing of up to US$9 million
equivalent (5% of the total loan amount) would be provided to help cover eligible initial project costs made after July 15, 1997.
Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed on the basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs) for: (a) staff training tuition or
instructor fees costing less than US$50,000 (b) all individual student loans (sub-loans) expenditures less than US$150,000; (d)
contracts with individual consultants of less than US$50,000, (d) contracts with consulting firms of less than US$100,000 per
contract, and (e) goods, materials and equipment contracts of less than US$350,000 equivalent per contract. Claims for
expenditures under contracts above these amounts must be presented to the Bank fully documented.
Accounting, fnancial reporting and auditing arragements. The operational manual prepared by BANOBRAS clearly states,
among others, the accounting, financial and auditing procedures for the project. ICEES and SOFES will each maintain a separate
account and accounting system. Each of these executing agencies will record all project transactions and retain all corresponding



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 5
Country: Mexico                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
support documentation for Bank review during the course of normal project supervision, including the relevant financial reports
from the universities participating in the SOFES program. BANOBRAS will be responsible for the overall monitoring of the
transactions and for furnishing to the Bank the certified statements of the Special Account on a monthly basis. For all expenditures
to which withdrawals from the Loan Account are made on the basis of SOEs, BANOBRAS would provide SHCP with the
appropriate information that is requested in the Guarantee Agreement. Interim financial reports will be included in the trimester
implementation reports. Each executing agency will be responsible for contracting annual financial audits, to be performed by
independent and qualified auditors in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. BANOBRAS will be responsible for
furnishing to the Bank the report of such audits no later than six months after the end of each financial year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. In addition to the continuous monitoring of the project implementation and impact
indicators, BANOBRAS with support from the executing agencies will be responsible for: (a) preparing and submitting project
implementation reports every trimester, (b) carry out, along with the Bank, an annual review of the progress made in the
implementation of the project, (c) conduct a mid-term review and final evaluation of the project, and (d) prepare the borrower's part
of the Project Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which should include a discussion of the sustainability plan for each of the
loan programs.
The project performance indicators are presented in Annex 1. In addition to monitoring key indicators, each executing agency will
be responsible for tracking complementary indicators and carrying out all the activities required for data collection (e.g., specialized
surveys). BANOBRAS will be responsible for collecting and aggregating the indicators from each agency and submitting these to
the Bank on a timely basis and in the appropriate manner (i.e., trimester report, annual review, mid-term review, or ICR). The
indicators to be presented in each type of report were identified and agreed during appraisal. As a condition of effectiveness, ICEES
and SOFES will complete the baseline data, projected targets and methodological notes to finalize the list of indicators in Annex 1.
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE
5. CAS oB;ECTIVE(s) SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT   Latest CAS document: Report No. 16135-ME discussed by the Board on
December 17, 1996 and updated on March 26, 1998
The project is consistent with the CAS's objectives of economic growth and social development. Increasing the availability of
student loans for low- and middle-income students will help increase equitable access to higher education in Mexico. The project
would allow students - who otherwise could not have afforded it - to attend a good quality private university. By promoting
competition, demand-side financing can also have a positive impact on the quality of education. More and better qualified
grduates, thus, will be entering the workforce, contributing to increases in labor productivity. These improvements in the labor
market are particularly important for the growing service sectors and the modern agricultural sectors and for helping Mexico build a
modern labor market that can compete in the rapidly changing international markets.  Furthermore, the project could have a
catalytic role on the development of a private sector financial market for student loans, as a culture of "borrowing for human capital
investment" develops in the country as has happened in the State of Sonora.
With regards to the CAS's social development goals, the project will contribute to the targeting and efficiency of social sector
spending. First, demand-side financing can foster the efficient use of public resources through increased competition in the sector.
Second, strengthening the capacity of student loan institutions to target their services to low- and middle-income students and to
provide financially sustainable programs will contribute to the more efficient use of public and private resources for higher
education. Third, the student loan schemes supported by the project can serve as models for future policy and institutional changes
aimed at promoting private participation in social sector spending. Fourth and last, greater private financing through cost-sharing in
higher education may help protect incremental public resources for primary and secondary education.
6. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY:
The Mexican higher education system is comprised of universities, technological institutes, teacher training institutes (escuelas
normales) and others. In 1993, there were 88 universities (49 private), 110 technological institutes (all public), 326 teacher training
institutes (111 private) and 223 others (198 private). Sixty-five percent of all higher education institutions have less than 1,000
students, and 53% have a student population of less than 500. The universities account for the highest enrollment rates -
approximately 71% of total enrollments. Technology Institutes follow with 15% of total enrollment and teacher training institutes
with 90/O. The 223 other entities only account for 5% of total enrollment. In 1993, private sector enrollments represented 21% of the
total. This percentage has been steadily on the rise, reaching 25% in 1996.6
OCDE (1997) Exdmenes de las Politicas Nacionales de Educaci6n. OCDE Francia,.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                       Page 6
Country: Mexico                                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
The four main issues that the Mexican higher education system faces are:
(a) a low participation rate that is insufficient to meet the country's growing needs for qualified manpower. In 1994, approximately
14% of the Mexican population between the ages of 20 and 24 were enrolled in higher education. This figure is far below
similar figures for other Latin American countries in the same year - e.g., Argentina 38.9%, Uruguay 29.9%, Chile 26.6%,
Costa Rica 29.3%, Bolivia 22.8%;7
(b) a scarcity of economic resources to spur growth, particularly after the financial crisis at the end of 1994.  Public higher
education institutions are highly dependent on public funds, making them extremely vulnerable in an era where the tendency is
to reduce federal intervention. In 1994, it was estimated that only 8% of total available resources to these institutions derived
from their own funds. It has also been estimated that a third of these funds came from student fees-which in most cases are
very low or almost nonexistent.
(e) deficiencies in the quality and relevance of services rendered by the institutions. There is a large variation in the quality of
higher education institutions, with only a small few offering high quality programs. Although reliable indicators of quality are
not easily available, certain proxies can shed some light on the condition of the services provided. For the period 1990-1994,
for example, the percentage of students that graduated (eficiencia terminal) - an indicator which has been used for many years
in Mexico as a proxy for the quality of the institutions - was only 49%. The lack of confidence in many of the diplomas that
are offered also hints at the low quality of the education provided by some institutions. Furthermore, in 1994, only 30% of the
university professors were full-time; 8% were part time and the rest were paid by the hour. The ability of higher education
institutions to adapt their programs to the needs of the nation's evolving economy has also been deficient.
(d) equity problems, particularly in light of the growing role of the private universities in meeting the demand for higher education,
and the limited number of grants, scholarships and student loans.
During the first five years of this decade, the Govermnent strategy has focused on improving the quality of the services rendered by
higher education institutions. Evaluation tools and procedures were designed and set up to assess their performance. In 1990, the
National Commission for the Evaluation of Higher Education (CONAEVA - Comisi6n Nacional para la Evaluaci6n de la
Educaci6n Superior) was created to promote a process of self-evaluation in universities. The Inter-institutional Committees for the
Evaluation of Higher Education (CIEES - Comites Interinstitucionales para la Evaluaci6n de la Educaci6n Superior) were also
created during this period to evaluate university programs. Furthermore, FIMPES established a strict accreditation system for the
admission of its members. Recently, six universities were expelled because they had failed to comply with the accreditation
requirement.
The Sub-Secretariat of Higher Education is now focusing efforts on increasing higher education participation levels within the
overall context of the 5-year education plan (Programa de Desarrollo Educativo). The Government is aware that the planned
expansion cannot be funded exclusively with public resources. Increasing coverage can be achieved only if public higher education
institutions are able to generate additional resources, through tuition fees and other income-generating measures, and if private
universities manage to absorb a growing share of higher education enrollments.
This expansion strategy, however, raises equity issues that must be addressed. For example, private universities report that
approximately 25% of the dropouts (of a 45% total dropout rate) can be attributed to economic factors. The expansion strategy, thus,
must be coupled with appropriate and effective financial support mechanisms to guarantee equal access opportunities to students
from low- and middle income families. Presently, the universities are required by law to provide grants to 5% of their student
population. In fact, private universities have exceeded this required coverage by 4%. These efforts, nonetheless, are not sufficient.
The grants are partial and are provided only after the first year of studies. Preliminary data thus suggest that these grants are given
to middle- and middle-high income students who have the funds to supplement the grants and can finance their first year of higher
education. Furthermore, the financial capacity of private universities is limited and their ability to finance students has already been
stretched.
Garcia Guadilla, Carmen. (1996) Situaciony Principales Dinamicas de Transformacion de la Educacion Superior en Ameinca Latina. CRESAI-UNESCO-Venezuela,



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 7
Country: Mexico                                                                 Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
The credit options students have to finance their studies are few and restrictive. Only about four banks offer student and the terms
and conditions of these loans are not very attractive and inaccessible to the majority of students, particularly to those coming from
low-income farnilies. Some private universities provide highly subsidized short term credits - which are akin to scholarships given
their subsidy level - but these are few in number and only cover tuition fees. This limited supply of credit options is exacerbated by
the lack of government-supported loan schemes. The State of Sonora is the only state that supports a student credit program. It is in
this context that the Mexican Government is keen to promote the strengthening and development of student loan schemes. It is
expected that such efforts would contribute to their long term goal of achieving the needed increases in the tertiary enrollment rate
while improving educational quality and equity of access.
7. SECTOR ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED BY THE PROJECT AND STRATEGIC CHOICES:
In line with the Goverrnent's long-term goals, the project will aim at increasing enrollment in higher education. The strategic
choice to support student loan schemes stems from its implications not only for access but also for educational equity and quality. By
supporting demand-side financing, the project will have a direct effect on expanding higher education coverage, and since the
financial programs will be targeted to needy and able students, there will also be an indirect effect on equity. The increased
purchasing power of students that receive the loans will stir competition, persuading universities to pay heed to the quality and
relevance of the programs they offer. Furthermore, with the availability of credit, the universities will be able to reserve scholarships
and grants for the financially neediest students as they shift low-middle-income students from grants to credits.
The choice to support one private and one public student loan institution is also of strategic importance. The lessons learned from
the two different experiences will be of great value to future demand-side financing initiatives. In the SOFES case, a private student
loan agency would be established to provide financial support to students seeking enrollment in the private universities that are
members of FIMPES. Although FIMPES currently only represents approximately 15% of the total number of private universities, its
member universities represent over 70% of total private sector enrollment and are among the most reputable private universities.
The latter is of particular importance because the project would therefore be focusing on the growth of good private universities. In
the ICEES case, the project would support the expansion and strengthening of the activities carried out by this public student loan
institution, the only one of such nature in Mexico. The State of Sonora, which in 1995 accounted for 4% of the national
undergraduate population, is one of the few states in which public universities charge significant tuition fees. Although this State
only accounts for a small percentage of the national undergraduate population, the experience built through the project will be
invaluable for states wishing to introduce cost-recovery in their universities while preserving equity. It is expected that ICEES's
strengthened experience will serve as a model.
8. PROJECT ALTERNATIVES CONSIDERED AND REASONS FOR REJECTION:
Supply side vs. demand-side financing. World Bank-financed higher education projects have historically emphasized supply-side
financing initiatives. These supply-side financing programs were frequently unsustainable in the long run. Demand-side financing
initiatives are more likely to have a sustainable, positive impact on educational access, equity, and quality. Furthermore, supporting
greater private financing through cost-sharing can help Mexico protect incremental public resources for investments in education.
This project would be the first World Bank higher education project providing demand-side financing on such a scale in a large
country.
Supporting government scholarships. Increasing the number of government scholarships for needy students enrolled in public
higher education institutions that agree to raise student fees was an alternative and/or complementary demand-side financing activity
that was considered. The high political risk associated with imposing cost-sharing in public institutions and the limited margin for
cost-recovery made this strategy less attractive - in terms of sustainability and feasibility - than supporting student loan initiatives.
Nonetheless, linking the SOFES loan system to the existing scholarship programs in member universities was seen as a viable and
important strategy.
Supporting more student loan schemes. Limiting activities to the strengthening of the ICEES loan scheme and the establishment of
the SOFES program was preferred for the following reasons: (a) cost-sharing is still rather controversial in Mexican public higher
education institutions and focusing on these two activities would allow a growth in the country's experience while minimizing
political risk; (b) the experiences of a public and a private institution would provide fruitful lessons for future investments; (c) there
is a strong sense of commitment and ownership for these programs; and (d) the conditions in other states are not yet sufficient for the
establishment of a local version of ICEES.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 8
Country: Mexico                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Implementation Arrangement:
Collection Arrangements for SOFES loans. The following four alternatives for the collection of SOFES loans were analyzed: (a) a
mixed (decentralized and centralized) strategy that would involve SOFES and small satellite offices in each university, (ii) a
centralized SOFES system, (iii) outsourcing to a bank, and (iv) outsourcing to a collection agency. The outsourcing options were
eliminated, among other reasons, because the banks and collection agencies showed little interest and/or experience in the area. The
mixed collection strategy was chosen over the centralized system because it presented financial and qualitative advantages. For
example, the participation of satellite offices would help establish closer relationships between students and loan administrators, thus
increasing the likelihood of loan repayment (see Annex 4 for a further description of the quantitative analyses that were carried out).
Legal and Financial Structure. Various alternatives for the overall legal structure of the project and for the institutional and
managerial structure of the SOFES loan program have been explored. With regards to the overall structure, the Government has
chosen BANOBRAS to be the borrower to on-lend the IBRD funds through a trust to SOFES and ICEES. BANOBRAS has already
defined the legal structure for the project, which was agreed by executing agencies. A draft of the legal structure was reviewed at
negotiations.
9. MAJOR RELATED PROJECTS FINANCED BY THE BANK AND/OR OTHER DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
(COMPLETED, ONGOING AND PLANNED).
Sector issue                                         Project                           Latest Form 590 Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                                                            IP             DO
Technical Training              Third Technical Training Project: Objective is to
improve the CONALEP system which addresses              S               S
technical education in Mexico.
Science and Technology          Second Science and Technology Project: Objective is to
rationalize public funding for science and technology
development and improve technology infrastructure       S               S
(under preparation)
Primary Education               Primary Education III: under preparation.               NA              NA
Equity in Basic Education and   PAREB and PRODEI: recently restructured into one
Initial Education               project. Objectives of both projects include preparing
children of low-income families for school, educating   S               S
parents in child-rearing practices and strengthening
institutional capacity to formulate and evaluate policies
in initial education
Other development agencies
Science and Technology          IDB is financing a program for the development of
science and technology in U.N.A.M.
Secondary Education             IDB has earmarked funds within the P.I.A.R.E project
for a study of upper secondary education that would
help guide the development of a strategy to improve this
educational level.
Two -year Universities          On the basis of a model developed by the autonomous
university of Guadalajara, IDB is preparing a small
grant to evaluate, adapt and expand two year university
programs that are closely linked with employment.
Distance Education (for Secondary  IDB is supporting the preparation of distance education
Education)                       modules for secondary school, including upper
secondary education.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                           Page 9
Country: Mexico                                                                       Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
10. LESSONS LEARNED AND REFLECTED IN THE PROJECT DESIGN:
On the basis of operational and policy analysis, a review of existing literature and original studies, the World Bank's higher
education policy study (Higher Education: the Lessons of Experience - presented to the Board in 1994), offers the following
relevant recommendations:
* the need for higher education institutions to diversify their sources of funding
* the redefinition of the role of the State to rely more on incentives and less on direct financing to influence the development of
the higher education system
* the introduction of policies designed to give priority to quality and equity objectives.
Many of the study's specific findings regarding international best practice, as well as the results of two comprehensive reviews of
existing student loan schemes are being taken into consideration in the project design: 
*   Cost-sharing strategy for expanding coverage.  The project's strategic choice to focus on student loans is supported by
international experience in higher education. Cost-sharing coupled with student financial assistance has proven to be an
efficient strategy for attaining expanded coverage and better educational quality while protecting equity of access.
* Administration of student loan programs. Experience with financial programs for students in developed and developing
countries point to the importance of a centralized administration. A centralized administration allows students to take their
financial package to the institution of their choice. Not linking the financial programs to particular institutions increases the
educational purchasing power of poor students. Thus, by permitting students to make the same choices as students with more
financial resources, market forces are put into play, stimulating changes in the quality of education. Both loan schemes
supported by the project (SOFES and ICEES) will increase the educational choices of qualified, financially needy students.
* Terms and Conditions of Loans. Every student loan scheme faces two conflicting challenges. On the one hand, the loan scheme
must be financially viable, providing adequate cash flows and being sustainable without substantial government subsidies. On
the other hand, it must also provide an equitable debt burden for students. A successful loan program thus needs to find the
right balance between an interest rate that makes the loan financially viable and repayment terms that allow graduates to be in a
position to pay. The loan terms and conditions have therefore been carefully analyzed during the project preparation process.
On the basis of demand surveys and financial and labor market salary projections, the terms and conditions of the ICEES loan
program were adjusted to help reduce the interest rate subsidy and the student's monthly debt burden. The terms and conditions
of the SOFES loans were defined using similar analyses. Projections show that loan repayments under the terms and conditions
of the SOFES loans will not exceed 18% of the student's salary.
* Minimizing Default. Among others, sustainable loan programs require an effective collection agency with appropriate incentives
to minimize default and evasion. Institutional disincentives to collect need to be removed. Furthermore, repayment terms
should allow graduates whose income has fallen to defer payments. In order to minimize the default rate of the student loans
schemes supported by the project, the institutional arrangements for collection have been carefully analyzed during project
preparation. The project will support activities aimed at strengthening ICEES's loan collection capacity and at establishing an
effective system for the SOFES loan program.
* Effective Targeting. International experience has shown that efficient targeting to needy and qualified students will improve the
financial viability of a program and increase the availability of support for those who need it. The SOFES and the ICEES
programs will target qualified students from low- and middle-income families. The criteria used for targeting has been carefully
reviewed and is presented in Annex 2.B. This Annex also provides a description of the methodology for classifying and
verifying students' socioeconomic background.
Albrecht and Ziderman (1992). Deferred Cost Recovery for Higher Education: Student Loan Programs in Develowing Countries. World Bank Discuaaion Paper 137,
World Bank. Woodhall, M. (1990-1993). Student Loans in Higher Education. vol. 1-4. Paris: International Institute for Educational Planning.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 10
Country: Mexico                                                               Project Trite: Higher Education Financing Project
Among the preliminary lessons from the ongoing Bank-financed student loan projects in Venezuela and Jamaica are
*  Vulnerability. Student loan schemes are extremely sensitive to changing economic conditions (inflation, employment, exchange
rate).
*  Financial Management. Working with a well functioning financial management system (and a good financial analyst) is
important to be able to monitor developments and explore alternative scenarios to preserve the financial viability of the
institution, especially in times of abrupt economic changes in the country. Consequently, ICEES added a full-time financial
specialist to its staff.
*  Leadership. The Venezuela experience illustrates the crucial role of the leadership of the student loan institution in terms of
rapid decision-making to adjust to changing circumstances.
*  Guarantees. There is a need to have a flexible third-party guarantee system to be able to serve the poorest students. ICEES will
continue implementing its systemwhich is based on a moral guarantee signed by a close member of the family. With regards to
the SOFES loan program, universities may become the guarantor of those students that cannot provide a third-party guarantee
and the possibility of developing a bank of guarantees (provided as donations) is being explored.
*  Loan Collection. Effective loan collection depends on an adequate information system to follow-up on graduates and proper
management and financial incentives. These aspects have been taken into consideration in the development of loan collection
systems.
11. INDICATIONS OF BORROWER AND RECIPIENT COMMITMENT AND OWNERSHIP:
There is a strong sense of commitment and ownership for the SOFES loan scheme, as well as for the strengthening of the ICEES
program. Approximately three years ago, FIMPES began exploring the feasibility of a student credit system for undergraduate and
graduate education. Booz, Allen & Hamilton of Mexico was hired to carry out a feasibility study of the loan scheme and design a
proposal for its establishment. The study was completed in February 1995 and by 1996, the Government through SHCP had agreed
to support SOFES' initiatives. During project preparation, SOFES has commissioned various studies, sought technical assistance,
hired key staff, obtained new office space and started a pilot program. SOFES (through the financial support of its members) has
invested approximately US$1.2 million in these activities.
With regards to ICEES, their actions have also demonstrated commitment to the proposed changes. With the pro-bono support of
McKinsey & Company, ICEES prepared an institutional strategic plan for the 1997-2006 period. ICEES has also financed and
carried out various studies (e.g., an evaluation of the socioeconomic background of university students in the State of Sonora) and
analyses (e.g., thorough financial simulations and review of accounting procedures) to support project design. Furthermore, the new
Governor of the State of Sonora has confirmed his full commitment to the project.
12. VALUE ADDED OF BANK SUPPORT:
The Bank's financial and non-lending services will provide valuable contributions to the project's design and the development of the
student credit market in Mexico. Student loans are a new area of financing in Mexico that is not likely to attract further private
sector financing until a track record is established. The Bank's support of this project would play a catalytic role in developing the
market for student loans. In addition, the Bank has accumulated a substantial amount of lending experience in higher education
projects, including projects that support student loan schemes. In fact, the Bank presently has two ongoing projects that support
demand-side financing - the Venezuela Student Loan Reform Project and the Jamaican Student Loan Project. This operational
experience, coupled with the expertise that stems from the Bank's higher education policy study puts the Bank in a favorable
position to offer advice and help avoid the mistakes incurred elsewhere.
The Governments of Argentina and Chile have recently indicated interest in mounting similar operations to stimulate the growth of
the private sector. The results of the proposed Mexico operation will be of value to orient their efforts. The project's monitoring
system is being carefully designed in order to provide valuable information not only for guiding the project's implementation but
also for assisting future operations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 11
Country: Mexico                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
BLOCK 3: SUMMARY PROJECT ASSESSMENTS
13. EcoNoMic ASSESSMENT                    [XI      Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
(see Annex 4):
The economic analysis presented in Annex 4 starts with an introductory discussion of how the project fits into the CAS, what are the
links with Economic and Sector Work, and what is the rationale for public sector intervention. Subsequently, the analysis is focused
on: (i) a cost-effectiveness analysis to justify the choice of interventions, (ii) a financial analysis to establish the viability of the
proposed schemes, (iii) an analysis of the macroeconomic impact to assess the fiscal burden of the project, and (iv) an equity impact
analysis examining the social benefits of the project. The main conclusions are presented below. A thorough description of the
analyses and their methodology can be found in the annex.
Choice of Interventions: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
Since rate of return analysis alone cannot fully capture all benefits in a comprehensive way, the discussion of the justification of the
project's choice of interventions focuses on the comparison of the cost-effectiveness of: (i) student loans versus traditional grants
such as those offered by the Government through the National Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT), and (ii) two loan
collection approaches for the SOFES loan program, one involving a centralized organizational model (SOFES responsible for all
aspects) and one relying on decentralized SOFES satellite offices (windows) in each participating university.
Loans vs. Grants. The main purpose of comparing a loan and a grant program was to determine which of the two programs was less
costly in terms of the Government's financial contribution. The main conclusions were:
* The SOFES student loan program is more cost-effective than a traditional grant program, except when the default rate is extremely
high (greater than 26%).
* The ICEES student loan program is more cost effective than administering a traditional grant program, even when default rates are
high (greater than 26%).
Collection Methods for the SOFES loan program. The analyses supported the choice of a decentralized collection arrangement
because: (i) a centralized collection arrangement is estimated to be approximately 5% more expensive than a decentralized program,
and (ii) the overall cost-effectiveness of a decentralized strategy is greater since experience has shown that repayment rates are higher
under a decentralized structure.
Financial Feasibility and Sustainability Analysis
Financial projections were carried out to assess the long-term viability of the proposed student loan schemes. The results indicated
that:
* The SOFES student loan program will have a positive net present value even under very difficult conditions, such as high default
rates, zero Government subsidy, and high interest rates to the students.
* The financial viability of the ICEES loan program is guaranteed over the next fifteen years.
* The World Bank loan would help ICEES reduce its dependence on budgetary funds from the State of Sonora.
Macroeconomic Fiscal Impact
The macroeconomic fiscal impact of the project was measured by comparing the direct impact of the following on the Govermment's
budget: (i) the subsidies offered in support of SOFES and ICEES and (ii) the savings associated with the operation of student loan
schemes. The main assumptions behind the analyzed scenarios are: (i) in the absence of the SOFES and ICEES loan schemes, a
larger number of students would have to be accommodated in public universities as they would not be able to attend private
universities (substitution effect), and (2) public universities such as the University of Sonora would not be allowed to charge tuition
fees. Given the distinctiveness of each loan program, the analyses were carried out separately with slightly different methodologies.
SOFES. The analysis reveals that the SOFES student loan program would generate considerable savings of public resources (on
average 300 million pesos per year), regardless of the level of subsidy. The savings are in the order of 90% of what the Federal
Government would have had to spend if it incurred the total costs of providing education to those students. Moreover, the analysis
predicts that the loan program would generate additional public resources from income taxes (generated once the students enter the
labor market), even after taking the subsidies into account.
ICEES. The analysis of the macroeconomic fiscal impact of the expansion of the ICEES student loan program indicates that, by the
year 2002, the loan program would account for an additional 109 million pesos for public universities and 196 million pesos for
private higher education institutions. The analysis also reveals that, owing to the better academic performance and graduation rate of
the beneficiaries of a student loan, the existence of the Student Loan Institute facilitates a more optimal use of public sector resources.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Page 12
Country: Mexdco                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Fnancing. Project
Equity Impact
The equity impact analysis focuses on the changes in the rate of access to higher education (particularly for low- and middle-income
students) that may result from project interventions. The main conclusions were:
* The capacity of the loan schemes to significantly alter the socio-economic distribution of the student population during the project
years is limited. It is important to be realistic about the number of years needed to achieve notable changes. The financial
sustainability of the programs is therefore of critical importance.
* It has been estimated that SOFES's loan program would help increase the number of low-income students in its member
universities by 4 percentage points. The percentage of middle-income students would increase by one percentage point.
* The proportion of ICEES beneficiaries from low- and middle-income groups is slightly higher than the share of these groups in the
overall student population. The social importance of the ICEES student loan scheme is even more visible when comparing the
situation in the public and private universities. The proportion of loan beneficiaries is significantly higher in the latter case, and it is
twice as high for low-income students. ICEES is committed to maintaining these proportions.
14. FINANcu1L ASSESSMENT
(see Annex 5)
The yearly breakdown of the total project cost by investment and recurrent expenditures as well as by financing sources is shown in
Annex 5.
Project Costs. Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is estimated at US$287.9 million. This total was
estimated assuming a mixed loan collection strategy, whereby SOFES and its satellite offices at the universities will participate in the
collection process.
Base costs. Base costs were estimated at US$260.3 million and were based on September 1997 prices. Cost estimates for tuition,
furniture, computer equipment and maintenance are supported by recent price quotations and past experience. Estimated costs for
training and technical assistance reflect prevailing local and international standards. Costs for all other expenditure categories
(operational costs) were based on expert advice and projections.
Contingencies. Physical and price contingencies amount to approximately US$27.5 million (9.6% of total project costs). Price
contingencies take into account an estimated 4% real growth of educational costs.
Foreign Exchange and taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$1.6 million, less than 1% of total
project costs. Foreign exchange costs stem mostly from expenditures for computer and general office equipment. Local taxes and
duties amount to less than 1% of total project costs. Locally procured goods and services are subject to a value added tax (VAT) of
15%.
Sources offinancing. An IBRD loan of US$180.2 million would cover approximately 63% of total project costs. Eighty-three
percent of this loan amount (US$150.2 million) would be allocated to the development of the SOFES loan program. The loan
proceeds would be used for financing student loans, office equipment, technical assistance and training. The remaining US$86.9
million required to finance the SOFES loan program would be provided by the Federal Government, by SOFES member universities,
and students and their families. Federal funds would cover 50% of the Reserve and Payment Fund (RPF) for the SOFES program.9
SOFES would be responsible for financing 50% of the RPF, and covering all operational costs, taxes and duties. The incremental
recurrent costs of the SOFES program (US$15.8 million) will pay, inter alia, for personnel in the satellite offices at the universities.
Seventeen percent of the IBRD loan (US$30 million) would be allocated to the expansion and strengthening of the Sonora Student
Loan Program. IBRD loan proceeds would be used to finance student loans, goods and equipment, technical assistance and training.
ICEES, with the support of the State of Sonora, would cover the additional recurrent costs created by the project (US$1.2 million)
and some investments in equipment. Contributions for educational costs from students and their families account for the balance of
the financing of this component.
A Reserve and Payment Fund (RPF) would be maintained as part of a guarantee systemn for the SOFES loan program. Five percent of the total
amount of funds distributed for student loans will-be held in the RPF. Half of the funds for the RPF (2.5%) will be covered by the Federal
Ministry of Education (SEP - Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica) through CONACYT (Consejo Nacional de Cienciasy Tecnologia) and the
other 2.5% by the SOFES member universities. An official letter from CONACYT confimning its commitment to support the RPF was
presented at negotiations.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                               Page 13
Country: Mexico                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
15. TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT:
During the project preparation process, emphasis has been given to design elements - such as the loan's terms and conditions,
collection arrangements and targeting mechanisms - that are key to the success of student loan programs. These aspects have been
examined on the basis of financial and labor market projections, student demand surveys, and socio-economic background studies, as
well as analyses of the institutional and financial capacity of participating institutions. Furthermore, the lessons learned from
experiences with student loan programs in Mexico and other countries around the world have been taken into account. All the
analyses have been carried out with technical support from area specialists. The numerous technical documents that have been
prepared during project preparation, including thorough operational plans and manuals for the SOFES loan program, are in the
project file (see Annex 8 for the list of documents).
16. INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT:
In order to ensure an effective implementation of the loan programs, various institutional issues have been addressed during the
preparation of the project. With regards to the overall institutional arrangement for project implementation, the Government has
opted to use BANOBRAS as the financial vehicle through which the IBRD loans will be on-lent to the executing agencies. The
institutional assessment that was carried out for ICEES revealed that only by strengthening the Institution's capacity would the
program's objectives be reached. Some immediate actions, such as the hiring of a financial specialist and the upgrading of the
management information system, have already begun. An auditing firm has also been hired to help ICEES adjust its financial
reporting system to reflect loans in severe arrears as acknowledged losses. During negotiations, ICEES presented its work plan for
carrying out the necessary adjustments. Other broader institutional development actions would be carried out during the
implementation of the project. These actions would be based on a long-term institutional development plan that would be designed
by specialists during the first years of the project.
Various options have been analyzed for the legal structure and institutional arrangements for the operation of the SOFES loan
program. A final agreement on these issues has already been reached, and a draft was reviewed and agreed at negotiations.
17. SoCIAL ASSESSMENT:
The project preparation strategy has been highly participatory. Representatives from all stakeholder groups have been systematically
consulted (SHCP, SEP, students, graduates, present and former beneficiaries of student loans, public and private university leaders
and administrators, professors, private sector representatives). Institutional representatives, SOFES member universities, and ICEES
beneficiaries have actively participated in the design of the components. A social marketing plan was prepared by SOFES to assess
political risks and propose a communication strategy to minimize them. A survey of students and university graduates was carried
out in the State of Sonora to evaluate the demand for student loans and the repayment difficulties encountered by former
beneficiaries. The broad consultation undertaken during project preparation would continue during the implementation phase to
inform and mobilize beneficiaries and the SOFES constituency.
In order to reach the project's social objectives, special attention has been given to the student loan's terms and conditions and
targeting mechanisms. The terms and conditions that are being sought are ones that permit a high level of financial viability and an
equitable debt burden for students. Financial models and demand surveys have been used to analyze the feasibility and affordability
of various scenarios and strategies. With regards to the targeting mechanisms, clear and transparent selection matrices are being
finalized and a methodology for classifying and verifying student's socioeconomic background has been established. Studies of the
socioeconomic status of students in project-related universities will help provide additional baseline indicators on which to gauge
progress in social objectives. Annex 2.B provides further details on the targeting methodology.
18. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT:
Environmental Category [   A     [I  B         lX]  C
19. PARTICIPATORY APPROACH:                  Identification/Preparation     Implementation           Operation
Beneficiaries (students)     IS/CON                     IS/CON                 CON
Intermediary Institutions (e.g., ICEES)     COL                        COL                   COL
Academic institutions (FIMPES Universities and      COL                       COL                    COL
Universities in the State of Sonora)
Teachers           IS                         IS                    IS
Local government (State Government of Sonora)      CON                        COL                    COL
Other donors (IDB)          IS                         IS                    IS
Policymakers          COL                        COL                   COL
IS = Information sharing; CON = Consultation; COL = Collaboration



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 14
Country: Mexico                                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
The project preparation process has relied on extensive consultation and collaboration. Student demand surveys were carried out for
both the SOFES and the ICEES programs. All participating institutions have been actively involved in the project design process.
Furthermore, the IDB has expressed strong interest in supporting the ICEES and SOFES loan schemes through a subsequent project.
20. SUSTAINABILITY:
The financial sustainability of the ICEES loan scheme will largely depend on: (i) the fulfillment of Sonora's State Government's
promise to support ICEES at a level equal in real terms to its present funding level, and (ii) the strengthening of the Institution's
financial management capacity, particularly with regards to loan recovery. During project preparation, actions aimed at addressing
these issues have been taken or incorporated into the project. For example, a financial specialist has been hired and the project will
finance the elaboration and implementation of a short- and long- term institutional development plan. The State Government has
officially confirmed its commitment to continue its funding of ICEES at its present level.
Sustainability issues have also been taken into consideration in the design of the private sector student loan scheme. For example,
special analyses of the universities' financial and management capacity have been carried out to provide insight into the
sustainability of the proposed arrangements (whereby the universities carry most of the financial risk of the project). Financial
projections for a representative sample of six universities indicated that SOFES member universities could absorb a 15% default ratio
and still reflect a surplus from operations each year. However, in order to increase the number of students after the project is
completed, additional resources will be required. A fundraising strategy has therefore been defined.
21. CRITICAL RisKs      (see fourth column of Annex 1):
Project components to outputs
Risk                    Risk Rating                     Risk Minimization Measure
The terms and conditions of loans are not     High    For both loan schemes, financial models designed with reliable job
adequate for achieving a financially viable and        market salary projections and financial data have been used to explore
equitable loan program                                 various scenarios and strategies. The terms and conditions that would
best respond to ICEES's loan program have been chosen on the basis
of these analyses. A final analysis of the affordability of the SOFES
loan program from different labor market positions has been carried
out. The terms and conditions of the SOFES loans were confirmed
during negotiations.
Effective targeting is not implemented.     Moderate  The criteria used for targeting has been carefully reviewed. ICEES
and SOFES will use a common methodology for identifying and
classiffing socioeconomic background. This methodology has been
empirically tested. The selection matrix that has been developed for
the SOFES loan program is transparent and equitable. ICEES's
selection matrix has been revised to support institutional targeting
goals. Furthermore, both ICEES and SOFES will monitor their
targeting of low- and middle-income students, as well as their coverage
in terms of gender and region of origin.
Institutional and managerial structure of   Moderate  The institutional arrangements for the Private Sector Loan Scheme
SOFES is not efficient and effective (e.g., too        have been carefully analyzed and an appropriate organizational and
many layers, insufficient financial                    legal structure was defined before negotiations.
responsibility of universities)
Loan repayment is hindered by: (a) ineffective  High    Based on lessons learned from past experience in Mexico (Sonora
loan collection strategies -especially for the         Institute and Universities) and from international best practice, an
new scheme (SOFES), and/or (b) economic                adequate loan collection strategy has been defined for ICEES and
conditions (e.g., recession with high inflation)       SOFES. The SOFES RPF is designed to cushion adverse effects of
potential economic problems.
Overall project risk rating                 Moderate
to High



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 15
Country: Mexico                                                              Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
22. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS:
In Mexico, the Government's use of the loan to support the private sector in lieu of reserving these funds for the expansion of the
public sector may be questioned. In order to address this issue, SOFES has developed a political marketing plan that would help
avoid or at least minimize adverse reactions.
Furthermore, in Mexico, cost-sharing in public higher education institutions is still rather controversial. This is why, in order to
minimize possible negative reaction, the project focuses on demand-side financing activities in institutions that already charge tuition
fees.
Within the Bank, supporting higher education in Mexico (versus basic education) may be a subject of debate. However, the proposed
project design corresponds to the recommendations of the Bank's higher education policy paper, namely the importance of moving
away from traditional supply-side financing to demand-side financing. This would be a major change in the incentives framework
for higher education institutions in Mexico. Moreover, increased demand-side financing in higher education could lead to the
protection of incremental resources to primary and secondary education.
BLOCK 4: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
23. EFFECrIVENESS CONDITIONS
(a) The signed derivation of funds contract and the trust fund contract between BANOBRAS and SHCP and the necessary legal
opinions are presented to the Bank;
(b) Either one of the intermediary agreements between BANOBRAS (Trust Fund) and SOFES or between BANOBRAS (Trust Fund)
and ICEES will have been signed, and the necessary legal opinions issued;
(c) The legal documentation that supports operation by SOFES as a SOFOL (Sociedad Financiera de Objeto Limitado) has been
presented to the Bank (if the BANOBRAS-SOFES intermediary agreement is the one signed for effectiveness);
(d) SOFES has submitted to the Bank its revised operational manuals (Reglas de Operaci6n del Sistema de Credito Educativo
SOFES and Manual de Credito) (if the BANOBRAS-SOFES intermediary agreement is the one signed for effectiveness);
(e) ICEES has presented to the Bank its revised project implementation document (Plan de Ejecuci6n) (if the BANOBRAS-ICEES
intermediary agreement is the one signed for effectiveness); and
(f) the Bank has received baseline data and targets as required to complete Annex 1 hereto.
24. OTHER
Disbursement Conditions:
(a) For the SOFES Component (Component A), the signed intermediary agreement between SOFES and BANOBRAS (Trust Fund)
with the necessary legal opinions, the SOFOL documentation and the SOFES operational manuals (unless already met under
effectiveness condition (b)) must have been presented to the Bank.
(b) For the ICEES Component (Component B), the signed intermediary agreement between ICEES and BANOBRAS (Trust Fund)
with the necessary legal opinions and the ICEES implementation document (unless already met under effectiveness condition (b))
must have been presented to the Bank.



MAY 12 'S 9      11:53          wORLDBRNK mExiCO    525-4804222                                          PPGE  3
Project Appraisal Document                  .                                                                         lb
Country: Mexico                                                                      Project Titlk: Higher EducaPtoii Fl-hancing Ptojecq
BLOCK 5: COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
F[X1   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I ask Manager: Jamil Salni                                  C'ountry Manager: Olivicrilafourcadc



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                     Page 17
Country: Mexico                                                                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Table 1. List of Key Indicators
Narrative Summary                       Key Performance Indicators (See           Monitoring and Supervision                 Critical Assumptions and Risks
Table below for baseline, mid-terrn
and end-of-project targets)
CAS Objective
Econornic growth
Social Deveopment
Project Development                                                                                                          (Development Objecfives to CAS
Objectives                                                                                                                   Objective)
Greater equity and quality in the    *   Higher education enrollment rate         Monitoring systems for the SOFES and Sonora   Assumptions:
preparation of university graduates.  *   Enrollment in SOFES universities as a % of    Student Loan Schemes. In addition to primary   (a) More and better qualified graduates will be
total higher education enrollment       data collected by the institutions, SOFES and  entering the workforce.
*   Enrollment in universities in the State of  ICEES will also rely on national higher education  (b) improve equity in higher education would
Sonora as a % of total higher education  statistics and intemal university figures. The  increase the potential eamings of lower income
enrollment                              exact sources that will be used in each    students.
*   Enrollment in universities in the State of  monitoring system are specffied in the  (c) Targeted demand-side financing would
Sonora and SOFES-member universities by    methodological notes which can be found in the   contribute to the more efficient use of public
socioeconomic status                    project file.                              and private resources for higher education
*   Dropout rate of students in universities in the                                     through Increased competition.
State of Sonora and of those in SOFES-                                             (d) The project would have a catalytic role in
member universities                                                                the development of a private sector financial
market for student loans.



Prbect Appraisl Document                                                                                                                                    Page 18
Counby Mexico                                                                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing ProJed
Table 1. List of Key Indicators (continued)
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators (See Table           Monitoring and Supervision             Critical Assumptions and Risks
below for baseline, mid-term and end-of-
project targets)
Project Outputs                                                                                                               (Outputs to Development
*   Increased access to higher      *   % of undergraduate students in project-related  Monitoring systems for SOFES and Sonora   Objectives)
education for academically qualified  universities receMng ICEES or SOFES loans    Student Loan Schemes. Specialized      Assumptions:
but financially needy students.  *   Students receiving ICEES or SOFES loans by    surveys will be carried out for some   (a) Demand-side financing will foster
socioeconomic status                          indicators (e.g., product and service  competition, thus promoting improvements
*   Dropout rate of students receiving ICEES or SOFES   satisfaction index, % of secondary school    in the quality and relevance of higher
students familiar with loans, socioeconomic   education institutions.
*   More effective and financially  With regards to SOFES:                             status)                                (b) Increasing the purchasing power of
sustainable student loan institutions.  *   Number of applications received (and % approved)                              academically qualified but financially needy
*   % of loans in arrears (overdue 61 to 180 days)                                        students would improve the equitable
*   % of loans overdue 61 to 90 days cartera                                              access to higher education.
extrajudicial                                                                        (c) Students who bear some part of the
*   % of loans undergoing legal process to collect (over                                  costs of their education are better
91 to 180 days)                                                                      motivated and have higher academic
*   Loan recovery rate                                                                   results.
*   Defauit rate
*   Operational Costs as a % of Total Loan Portfolio
*   % of students (in their last year of secondary school
and attending SOFES universities) that have
participated in SOFES loan information sessions.
*   % of students in SOFES member universities
receivng non-SOFES loans by university
*   Product and service satisfaction index
*   % of students receMng SOFES loans that obtain a
job In 6 months (after graduation)
With regards to ICEES:
*   Contribution to ICEES from the State of Sonora in
real terms (millions of pesos)
*   Number of applications received for higher education
loans (and % approved)
* Loans due vs. Total Loan Porfolio
*   % of loans in arrears (1-8 months past due)
*   % of Loans undergoing legal collection process (over
9 months past due)
*   Loan Recovery Rate
*   Default Rate
*   Level of Subsidy
* Operational Costs as a % of total loan portfolio
*   Product and service satisfaction index
*   % of University and last year secondary school
students that are familiar with ICEES's loan product
*   % of students receing ICEES loans that obtain a
I    job in 6 months (after graduation)



Proect Appralsal Document                                                                                                                                   Page 19
County: Medco                                                                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Narrative Summary                      Key Performance Indicators (See Table           Monitoring and Supervision             Critical Assumptions and Risks
below for baseline, mid-term and end-of-
project targets)
Project Components                                                                                                            (Components to Outputs)
A. Devebpment of the Private Sector  *   Loan Funds Distributed vs, Programmed Amount  Monitoring systems for FIMPES and Sonora  Assumptions/Risks:
Student Loan Scheme              *   Equipment for MIS has been purchased and installed  Student Loan Schemes. Basic tracking of
1 student loans                  *   % of SOFES Program Staff Trained               activities.                            (a) The terms and conditions of loans are
2 Institutional Development                                                                                                adequate for achieving a financially viable
and equitable loan program.
*   Loan Funds Distributed vs. Programmed Amount                                          (b) Effective targeting is implemented.
B. Strengthening of the Sonora Student   *   Basic computer equipment is purchased and                                        (c) Organizational and legal structure of
Loan Scheme                          installed to respond to more immediate needs                                          SOFES facilitates an effective and efficient
1 Student Loans                  *   TA for long -term Institutional Development Plan                                      loan scheme.
2 Institutional Strengthening    *   Equipment to support Long-term Development Plan                                       (d) Effective loan collection
is purchased and installed.                                                          (e) Economic conditions do not hinder loan
I repayment.



Pvc App'm Doawu                                                                                                                                                Pap 20
Cay Mdo                                                                                                                       Project Tl: Hbher Educwon F cin P
Table 2. LiSt of Comolhmentarv Indicators
Narrative Summary                    Complenentary Indicators (See Table   Monitoring and Supervision                        Critfcal Assumpffons and Risks
below for baseline, mid-term and end-
_______________________                of-project targets)
CAS Objective
Econornm growth
Social Deve.p ent
Project Development                                                                                                          (Development Objecfives to CAS
Objectives                                                                                                                   Objecfive)
Greater equily and quality in the    *   Students in project-related universties by  Monitoring systems for the SOFES and Sonora   Assumptions:
preparation of university graduates.     gender                                   Student Loan Schemes. In addtion to primary   (a) More and better qualified graduates will be
*   Students in project-related universities by  data collected by the institutions, SOFES and  entering the workforce.
field of study                          ICEES will also rely on intemal university  (b) Improve equity in higher education would
* Students in the universities in the Stat of  figures.The exact sources that will be used in   increase the potential eamings of lower income
Studntsin he nivrsfiesin he tat of each monitorng system are specifie in the  students.
Sonora by region of ongin.              methodological notes which can be found in the   (c) Targeted demand-side financing would
*   Average grades of students in the universdies  project file.                        contribute to the more efficient use of public
in the State of Sonora                                                             and private resources for higher education
*   SOFES-member university students with                                               through increased competition.
high academic performance (equal to or                                             (d) The project would have a catalytic role in
greater than 8)                                                                    the development of a private sector financial
*   Average number of years to graduate for                                             market for student loans.
students in universities of the State of Sonora
I    and in SOFES-member universities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                     Page 21
Country: Mudco                                                                                                                Project Title: Higher Educaton Financing Project
Table 2. List of Complementarv Indicators (continued)
Narrative Summary                    Complementary Indicators (See Table below   Monitoring and Supervision                      Critical Assumptions and Risks
for baseline, mid-term and end-of-project
targets)
Project Outputs                                                                                                                 (Outputs to Development
*   Increased access to higher       *   Students receiving ICEES or SOFES loans by      Monitoring systems for SOFES and Sonora   Objecives)
education for academically qualified  gender and field of study.                    Student Loan Schemes.                   Assumptions:
but financially needy students.  *   Student receiving ICEES loans by region of origin.                                     (a) Demand-side financing will foster
*   Average grades of students receiving ICEES loans.                                      competition, thus promoting improvements
*   Students receiving SOFES loans with high academic                                      in the quality and relevance of higher
performance (equal to or greater than 8)                                               education institutions.
*   Average number of years to graduate for student                                        (b) Increasing the purchasing power of
receiving ICEES loans or SOFES loans.                                                  academically qualified but financially needy
*   Students receiving mix of SOFES loans and                                              students would improve the equitable
scholarships by socioeconomic status                                                   access to higher education.
(c) Students who bear some part of the
*   More effective and financially   With regards to both, SOFES and ICEES:                                                      costs of their education are better
sustainable student loan institutions.  *   Past due loans by reason (lost track of student, no                             motivated and have higher academic
income, insufficient income)                                                           results.
*   Composition of resources
*   Average number of months for students receiving
loans to find a job.
With regards to SOFES:
*   Average cost of treasury
*   Average interest rate of loan
* % of resources retained from SOFES universities for
Reserve Fund
*   % of resources retained from SOFES universities for
Loans in Arrears
With regards to ICEES:
*   % of students that receive response to application in
scheduled time
*   Turn-around times for resource transfer



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                     Page 22
Country: Mexdco                                                                                                               Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 3. Baseline and Tareet Values for Key Performance Indicators
Narrative Summary                                            .                    Key Perfornance Indicators
Indicator                              Baseline                     Mid-term target               End-of-project target
(1997)                      Mid-Year 2000                    Mid-Year 2003
Project Development
Objectives
Greater equity and quality in    * Mexican higher education enrollment rate          14.0%                           15.8%                            17.9%
the preparation of university
graduates.
* Enrollment in SOFES universities as a % of Total    14.2% (1996)                        19.1%                            24.6%
Higher Education Enrollment
* Higher education participation rate in the State of     26%                             30%                              33%
Sonora
* Enrollment in SOFES universities by                                               See Table 3.A below
socioeconomic status
* Enrollment in universities in the State of Sonora    Low: 72.4%                       Low: 73%                         Low: 73%
by socioeconomic status                              Middle: 26.4%                     Middle: 26%                      Middle: 26%
* Dropout rate of students in universities in the
State of Sonora                                    BEING ANALYZED
* Dropout rate of students in SOFES-member               25.0%                            23.1%                            18.9%
universities
Project Outputs
* Increased access to higher
education for academically  * % of undergraduate students in SOFES member             0%                             7.48%                            18.2%
qualified but financially needy   universities receiving SOFES loans
students.
* % of undergraduate students in universities in         16.3%                            19.8%                            22.7%
the State of Sonora receiving ICEES loans
* Students receiving SOFES loans by                                                 See Table 3.B below
socioeconomic status
a Students receiving ICEES loans by          Low:    75.3%                   The percentage of low- and middle-income students receiving credits will
socioeconomic status                         Middle: 24.0%                   be maintained or increased, attempting to keep the coverage equal to or
above the higher education enrollment rates of these socioeconomic
groups.
* Dropout rate of students receiving SOFES loans      Not applicable                      1.0%                             1.0%
* Dropout rate of students receiving ICEES loans   BEING ANALYZED
* More effective and
financially sustainable student
loan institutions.         SOFES:
*Number of applications received (and %               Not applicable                 126,905 - 14.0%                  452,489- 11.6%
approved)
*% of loans in arrears (overdue 61 to 180 days)       Not applicable                      2.8%                              3%
*% of loans overdue 61 to 90 days (cartera            Not applicable                      2.0%                             2.0%
extrajudicial)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                   Page 23
Country: Mexico                                                                                                             Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Narrative Summary                                                                Key Performance Indicators                                                            |
Indicator                             Baseline                     Mid-term target              End-of-project target
(1997)                     Mid-Year 2000                    Mid-Year 2003
* % of loans undergoing legal process to collect     Not applicable                      0.5%                            0.5%
(over 91 to 180 days)
* Loan recovery rate                                 Not applicable                     >- 3%                            - 14%
* Default rate                                       Not applicable
* Operational Costs of SOFES as a % of Total         Not applicable                    < 7.5%                           < 2.0%
Loan Portfolio
* % of students (in their last year of secondary     Not applicable                 SOFES: >= 60%                    SOFES: >= 90%
school and attending SOFES universities) that
have participated in SOFES loan information                                        Secondary: >= 35%               Secondary: > 50%
sessions
% of students in SOFES member universities               2%I                              1%                             0.5%
receiving non-SOFES loans (by university)
* Product and service satisfaction index             Not applicable                     > 80%                            - 95%
* % of students receiving SOFES loans that obtain    Not applicable                     >= 40%                          -= 40%
a job in 6 months after graduation
ICEES:
* Contribution to ICEES from the State of Sonora      23.0 million                   >= 23.0 million                 >= 23.0 million
in real terms (pesos)                                                                 (real terms)                     (real terms)
*Number of applications for higher education loans      8,800                           14,000                           19,000
received (and % approved)                              (100%)                            (98%)                           (91%)
* Loans due as a % of Total Loan Portfolio              14.46%                           9.5%                            7.0%
*% of loans in arrears (1-8 months past due)        New policy being established; baseline and targets to be provided 6 months after effectiveness
* % of loans undergoing legal process to collect    New policy being established; baseline and targets to be provided 6 months after effectiveness
(over 9 months past due)
* Loan recovery rate                                New policy being established; baseline and targets to be provided 6 months after effectiveness
* Default rate                                       New policy being established; baseline and targets to be provided 6 months after effectiveness
* Level of Subsidy                                      -15.6%                           -7.2%                           -21.2%
* Operational Costs as a % of Total Loan Portfolio      4.37%                            2.1%                             1.3%
* % of students (in their last year of secondary   Secondary: 67%                   Secondary: 85%                  Secondary: 100%
school and attending Sonora universities) that are  University: 43%                  University: 79%                 University: 100%
familiar with ICEES loan product
* Product and service satisfaction index         BEING DEFINED AND
ANALYZED
* % of students receiving ICEES loans that obtain  BEING ANALYZED
a job in 6 months after graduation
Project Components
A. Development of the      SOFES
Private Sector Student  Student       Loan Funds Distributed vs.             Not applicable          Less than 10% deviation from    Less than 10% deviation from
Loan Scheme             Loans         Programmed Amount                                             annual program                   annual program
Institutional    Equipment for MIS has been                                 Installation complete by December
Development  purchased and installed                                        2000
% of SOFES Program Staff                                       100% by July 2000
'This is the present average but infonnation disgregatd by university will be presented by effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                            Page 24
Country: Mexico                                                                                                                     Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Narrative Summary                                                                     Key Performance Indicators
Indicator                                Baseline                      Mid-term target                End-of-project target
(1997)                       Mid-Year 2000                      Mid-Year 2003
Trained                                     .
B. Strengthening of the
Sonora Student Loan     ICEES
Scheme                  Student        Loan Funds Distributed vs.                                        Less than 10% deviation from       Less than 10% deviation from
Loans         Programmed Amount                         Not applicable           annual program                    annual program
Basic computer equipment is                                       100% completed by Jan. 2000
Institutional    purchased and installed to
Development  respond to more immediate
needs
Technical Assistance for Long-                                    100% completed by Jan 2000
term Institutional Development
Plan
Equipment to support Long-term                                    50% completion                    100% completion
Development Plan is purchased
and installed                      .



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                Page 25
Country: Mexico                                                                                                            Project Title: Higher Education Financing Proect
Table 3.A - SOFES Enrollment Targets by Socio-economic Status
Baseline Estimates         Mid-term target        End-of-project target
(to be reviewed after       Mid-Year 2000             Mid-Year 2003
completion of study)
High C                             207                       230                       271
High B                            8,713                     9,698                     11,388
High A                            27,383                    30,478                   35,788
Medium C                          43,356                    49,268                    59,681
Medium B                          47,090                    53,511                    64,821
Medium A                          37,755                    42,903                   51,971
Low C                             23,856                    28,343                   36,705
Low B                             13,692                    16,267                   21,067
Low A                             5,394                     6,409                     8,299
Marginal                            1                         1                         2
Totals                           207,447                   237,109                   289,992
Table 3.B - SOFES Targets for Students Receiving Loans by Socio-economic Status
Baseline Estimates         Mid-term target        End-of-project target
Mid-Year 2000            Mid-Year 2003
High C                             N/A                       0%                        0%
High B                             N/A                       0%                        0%
High A                             N/A                      2.7%                      2.7%
Medium C                           N/A                      8.7%                      8.7%
Medium B                           N/A                      18.8%                     18.8%
Medium A                           N/A                      30.2%                     30.2%
Low C                              N/A                      21.0%                     21.0%
Low B                              N/A                      13.1%                     13.1%
Low A                              N/A                      5.5.%                     5.5.%
Marginal                           N/A                       0%                        0%



Prot Appwl  Doment                                                                                                                                               Page 26
count  Meadco                                                                                                                   Project Tit: Higher Education Financing Projt
Table 4. Baseline and Target Values for Complementary Performance Indicators
Narfrive Summary                                                            Compbmentary Perfomnance Indicators
Indicator                              Baseline                      Mid4erm  target               End-of-project target
(1997)                      Mid-Year 2000                     Mid-Year 2003
Project Development
Objectives
Greater equity and qually in    * Students in SOFES-memnber uniwrsities by      Men - 54.2% (1996)                  Men - 50.9%                       Men - 49.4%
prepateon of uisity    gender                                                 Women - 45.8% (1996)                Women - 49.1%                    Women - 50.6%
gracduaes.gne
* Students in the universities in the State of  Women: 52 % (1992-1996)
Sonora by gender                             Men:    48%
*Students in SOFES-menber uniersities by fid   Engineering: 24.2%              Engineering: 25.4%               Engineering: 26.6%
of study                                     Accounting: 14.2%                 Accounting: 14.6%                Accounting: 11.7%
Law. 11.0%                       Law: 11.0%                       Law. 11.0%
Management: 9.8%                 Management: 10.3%                Management: 10.3%
Education: 7.5%                  Education: 7.5%                  Education: 7.5%
Medicine: 5.2%                   Medicine: 4.4%                   Medicine: 4.4%
Architecture: 3.9%               Architecture: 3.9%               Architecture: 3.9%
Communication: 2.9%              Communication: 3.8%              Communication: 4.9%
Economics: 1.5%                  Economics: 2.6%                  Economics: 3.3%
Marketing: 0.7%                  Marketing: 1.2%                  Marketing: 1.6%
* Students in the universtles in the State of  Administration: 56%
Sonora by field of study                      Heaith: 2%                                No targets; monitoring for comparison purposes only
Agricuiural: 3%
Engineering Tech.: 26%
Natural Sciences: 3%
Humanities and Education: 10%
* Enrollment in universities in the State of Sonora    Hermosillo: 34%
by region of origin                           Desierto: 6%                              No targets; monitoring for comparison purposes only
Centro Sierra y Rio: 5%
Sur: 43%
Frontera: 8%
Out of state: 4%
* Average grades of students in the universities in         82                          No targets; monitoring for comparison purposes only
the State of Sonora
* Students in SOFES-member universities vwith
high academic performance (equal or greater than         >= 75%                           >= 71%                            >= 71%
8)
* AVerage number of years to graduate for           BEING ANALYZED
students in universities in the State of Sonora
* Average number of years to graduate for                  3.4                              3.4                               3.6
students in SOFES-member universities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                Page 27
Country: Mexico                                                                                                            Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Narrative Summary                                                        Complementary Performance Indicators
Indicator                            Baseline                    Mid-term target               End-of-project target
(1997)                     Mid-Year 2000                   Mid-Year 2003
Project Outputs
* Increased access to higher
education for academically                                                                                     Men - 53.5%                     Men - 51.9%
qualified but financially needy   * Students receMng SOFES loans by gender     Not applicable                 Women - 46.5%                   Women - 48.1%
students.
* Students re;eiving ICEES loans by gender          Women: 53%                Maintain the proportion of women receiving loans at least equal to the
.___________ _  Men:   47%                proportion in the general university student population
* Students receMng SOFES loans by field of                                                       See Table 4.A below
study
* Students receMng ICEES loans by field of study   Administration: 51%     Maintain coherence with regional
Health:  4.3%                  and national educational strategies
Agricultural: 2.1%             and with the demands of the labor
Engineering Tech.: 22.9%       market.
Natural Sciences: 2.3%
_Humanities and Education: 17%
* Students receiving ICEES loans by region of  Hermosillo: 27%             Increase access to higher
origin                                      Desierto:   7%                 education to those students from
Centro Sierra y Rio: 6%        areas that do not have universities
Sur: 56%                       in their region of origin.
Frontera: 5%
Out of state: 1%
* Average grades of students receiving ICEES                               Maintain or improve this average. It
loans                                                    85                should be above the average for the
general student population.
* Students receMng SOFES loans wih high             Not applicable                                     >= 67%
academic performance (equal to or greater than 8)
* Average number of years to graduate for           Not applicable                      2.9                             3.2
students receiving SOFES loans                                                                            I
* Average number of years to graduate for          4.6 years (1996)        Maintain or decrease. It should be below the average for the general
students receiving ICEES loans                                             student population.
* Students receiving mbc of SOFES loans and         Not applicable                               See Table 4.B below
scholarships by socioeconomic status
* More effective and
financially sustainable student
loan instiutions.         SOFES:
* Past due loans by reason (lost track of student                                     (1) -1.5%                       (') - 1.5%
(1), no income (2), insufficient income(3))         Not applicable                    (2) 2.0%                       (2) - 2.0%
(3) - 3.0%                      (3) - 2.5%
* Composiion of resources                         BEING ANALYZED                                 See Table 4.C below
* Average cost of treasury                          Not applicable                     UDI + 4                         UDI +4
* Average interest rate of loan                     Not applicable                     UDI + 2                         UDI + 2
* % of resources retained from SOFES                Not applicable                                 No more than 8%
universiies for Reserve Fund
* % of resources retained from SOFES                Not applicable                                No more than 10%
universties for Loans in Arrears
* Average number of months for students              Not applicable                   6 months                        6 months
receiving loans to find a job             I



ProJet Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                        Page 28
Country: Mexco                                                                                                                  Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
-Narrative Summary                                                           Complementary Performance Indicators
Indicator                              Baseline                     Mid-term target                End-of-project target
._________________  _______________________________                   (1997)                       Mid-Year 2000                    Mid-Year 2003
ICEES:                                                  .
* Past due loans by reason (lst track of student,   Lost Track of Student:
no income, insufficIent Income)              BEING ANALYZED
No Income:
BEING ANALYZED
Insufficient Income: 68%
* ComposRiton of resources                   State Govt: 44%                  State Govt: 18%                   State Govt: 16%
Loan Recovery: 38%               Loan Recovery: 27%               Loan Recovery: 24%
Bank of Mexdco: 2%               Bank of Mexico: 1%               Bank of Mexico: 1%
PaVSEDESOL: 13%                  PatVSEDESOL: 5%                  PaVSEDESOL: 5%
Adm/Donations: 3%                Adm/Donations: 2%                Adm/Donatlons: 2%
Intrnatinal Credft: 0%          International CredRt: 47%         Intemational Credit: 53%
* Average number of months for students             BEING ANALYZED
receMng loans to find a job
* % of students that receive response to            BEING ANALYZED
application In scheduled time                                .
* Turn-around times for resource transfer                 7 days              Maintain comparable tum-around times.



Pject Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                       Page 29
Country Mexdco                                                                                                                Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 4.A - Students Receiving SOFES Loans by Field of Study
Baseline              Mid-term target         End-of-project target
Mid-Year 2000             Mid-Year 2003
Engineering            X      Not applicable (0)             27.9%                      30.7%
Accounting                     Not applicable (0)             7.3%                       7.7%
Law__________________         Not applicable (0)              8.8%                       8.8%
Management                     Not applicable (0)             10.8%                     13.0%
Education                      Not applicable (0)             9.7%                       9.7%
Medic_ine              _       Not applicable (0)             0.0%                       2.0%
Architecture                   Not applicable (0)             3.9%                       3.9%
Communication                  Not applicable (0)             4.9%                       6.4%
Economics                      Not applicable (0)             3.6%                       5.0%
Marketing                      Not applicable (0)             1.6%                       3.1%
Table 4.B -Students Receiving SOFES Loans/Scholarships by Socio-economic Status
Baseline               Mid-term target         End-of-project target
Mid-Year 2000             Mid-Year 2003
High C                         NoA applicable (0)               0                          0
High B                         Not applicable (0)               0                          0
High A                         Not applicable (0)              479                       1,423
Medium C                       Not applicable (0)             1,543                      4,585
Medium B                       Not applicable (0)             3,334                      9,907
Medium A                       Not applicable (0)             5,356                     15,915
Low C                          Not applicable (0)             3,725                     11,067
Low B                          Not applicable (0)             2,323                      6,904
Low A                          Not applicable (0)              975                       2,898
Marginal                       Not applicable (0)               0                          0
Table 4.C - Composition of SOFES Resources
(US$ million)                        _
Baseline            Mid-term target       End-of-project target
(1997)             Mid-Year 2000            Mid-Year 2003
Total Available Resources                 24.0                    382.8                  1,336.9
Loans (for on-lending to students)         0.0                    323.2                  1,182.8
Capitalization Funds                      24.0                    40.2                     83.1
Donations                                  0.0                    19.4                     71.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 30
Country: Mexico                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 2.A: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
In line with the Government's long-term development goals for the education sector, the project aims at
increasing enrollment in higher education. The strategic choice to support student loan schemes stems from
its implications not only for access but also for educational equity and quality. By supporting demand-side
financing, the project will have a direct effect on expanding higher education coverage, and since the
financial programs will be targeted to needy and able students, there will also be an indirect effect on
equity.  The increased purchasing power of students that receive the loans will stir competition,
encouraging universities to pay heed to the quality and relevance of the programs they offer. Furthermore,
with the availability of credit, the universities will be able to reserve scholarships and grants for the
financially neediest students as they shift middle-income students from grants to credits.
The project will support one private and one public student loan institution. This mix of private and public
interventions is of strategic importance. The lessons learned from the two experiences will be of great value
to future demand-side financing initiatives. The Government of Mexico has agreed to take the primary
responsibility for the World Bank loan and to, through BANOBRAS, on-lend to the corresponding
implementation agencies - the Sonora Student Loan Institute (ICEES - Instituto de Credito Educativo del
Estado de Sonora) for the strengthening and expansion of its present loan program and the Society for the
Promotion of Higher Education (SOFES - Sociedad de Fomento a la Educacion Superior) for the
establishment of the private sector student loan scheme.
Proiect Description
The proposed project will have the following two components: (i) Development of the Private Sector
Student Loan Scheme, and (ii) Strengthening of the Sonora Student Loan Scheme. Each component, in
turn, has two subcomponents - one that will help finance the student loans and one that will support the
institutional development of the executing agencies.
Project Component 1 - Development of the Private Sector Student Loan Scheme (US$237.1 million,
including contingencies, 82% of total project cost)
Student Loan Program. FIMPES, an association of Mexican private higher education institutions, has
decided to operate a higher education student loan program through its financial intermediary, SOFES.
The student loan program would be aimed at improving access to private higher education for students who
are academically qualified but whose financial conditions limit their opportunities for higher education.
This subcomponent would finance student loans through funds that would be on-lent by the Government,
through BANOBRAS, to SOFES.
Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries of the SOFES loan program are academically able but financially needy
students attending or wishing to enroll in SOFES member universities. It has been estimated that, by the
end of the project, SOFES will have provided loans to a minimum of 25,600 students, of which
approximately 70% percent would come from middle-low to low-income families. Nonetheless, the
complementary use of the loans and scholarships renders the potential to double the amount of beneficiaries
(estimated at approximately 52,700 students). SOFES aims at increasing the participation of low-income
students from 20.7% in 1997 to 24.2% by 2003.1.
Important steps are being taken to ensure that these objectives are met, particularly those regarding
targeting lower income students. First of all, a selection matrix has been designed that adequately weighs
lSOFES carried out a study of the socioeconomic status of students in a representative sample of their member universities.
This study not only provided base indicators on which to gage progress in social objectives but also insight into how to
classify and evaluate students' socioeconomic background during the loan application process.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 31
Country: Mexico                                                      Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
academic background, financial need, and area of study in order to define a student's eligibility to financial
aid and determine the most appropriate mix of scholarships and loans for each profile. The percentage of
tuition covered by the loans varies according to economic need and the elected area of study. (See Annex
2.B) Second, efforts are being made to standardize, as much as possible, the information used by the
universities to evaluate students.  For example, a methodology has been developed for determining
students' socioeconomic background. Third, in order to adequately implement the selection and loan
assignment process, a training program for SOFES and university-level staff has initiated. Fourth, in
addition to socioeconomic background, other characteristics such as gender and region of origin will be
monitored in order to ensure a desirable distribution across these categories.  Fifth, the university may
become the guarantor for students that cannot provide a third-party guarantee.
Terms and Conditions of Student Loans. The student loan product is being designed to respond to the
program's financial and social demands as best as possible. In the first phase of the program, the loans
would only be used to cover registration, insurance and tuition fees. After SOFES has acquired more
experience, a second phase will be initiated in which books and supplies, living allowances and
transportation may also be covered by the loan. The terms and conditions have been determined on the
basis of financial and labor market salary projections, assuming, among others, that loan repayments
should not exceed 18% of the debtor's salary. The present proposal includes a variable positive real
interest rate that would be compounded monthly and the students would have the option of graduated or
fixed repayment schemes.2 The repayment term for graduating students would be double the study period
for which a loan was taken (i.e., if the loan was for one academic year, then the repayment term would be
two years), in addition to a six-month grace period.
Legal and Institutional Arrangements for Program Administration. SOFES, BANOBRAS and the
Federal Government (i.e., SHCP, SEP, CONACYT) have reached agreement on the legal structure for
SOFES and the mechanisms for the transfer of funds. The Government has selected BANOBRAS to be the
borrower and trustee and thus, to serve as the financial vehicle to receive and manage the World Bank loan
proceeds for this project. The Govemnment, through SHCP, will constitute a Trust Fund for which
BANOBRAS will act as Trustee and the Government as grantor. The Trust will be the vehicle to transfer
the proceeds of the Loan to SOFES. The Trust will receive contributions to the Reserve and Payment Fund
(RPF) from participating universities and from CONACYT, donations, and any additional resources aimed
at improving the financial viability of the student loan schemes. The Trust Fund will also receive
repayments from SOFES corresponding to the servicing of the World Bank Loan and transfer the money
back to the Federal Government (see Graph A). Presently, forty of the seventy-six universities that are
members of FIMPES have signed on to the SOFES student loan program.3
The SOFES student loan program would be managed by a central SOFES office and small satellite offices
that would be located in each university. The satellite offices would be financed by each university and
would only be responsible for the loans in their account. The students would submit their loan applications
at the satellite office of the university of their choice. Then, if approved by the university, the completed
file would be sent to SOFES, where the technical committee would review the loan to make sure it is in
line with SOFES policies. A promissory note would then be issued by SOFES for those loans that received
final approval.
2 The real formula is based on UDIs. UDIs (Unidades de Inversi6n) are Mexican national investmnent units that are a function
of the performance of the National Consumer Price Index (INPC - Indice Nacional de Precios al Consumidor).
FIMPES universities represent approximately 70% of private sector enrollment and the forty SOFES universities account for
a high percentage of this participation in the sector.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 32
Country: Mexico                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Each satellite office would be the first instance responsible for loan collection. Once the loan becomes 90
days in arrears, the responsibility would be shifted to the central office who would collect the loan with
legal support. Each university would be entirely responsible for the repayment of the loans they have
issued to their students through a two tier guarantee system. The first level is the Reserve and Payment
Fund (RPF). If a loan is past due over 90 days, then the appropriate amount would be transferred from the
RPF to cover the missed payment. The second guarantee is put into effect at the beginning of each
academic cycle when the RPF funds are insufficient. In addition to the regular deductions for the RPF
fund, the amount of funds allocated to the university for the new academic cycle would be reduced by the
amount required to cover the loans that are past due over 90 days.
In addition to the loan approval and collection responsibilities described above, the central SOFES office
would be responsible for all legal issues, the general administration of the Guarantee and Reserve Fund, the
loan program's marketing strategy, fund raising, updating the management information system, and
monitoring the loan program as a whole.
Institutional Development. Through this subcomponent, the project would support the start-up costs of the
student loan program. All activities related to the establishment of the central and satellite offices, the set
up of a coherent management information system, as well as the development of a marketing and promotion
strategy would be supported. Equipment and technical assistance would be financed by the IBRD loan.
Additional technical assistance and staff training would be financed by SOFES member universities.
Project Component 2 - Strengthening of the Sonora Student Loan Scheme (US$50.8 million,
including contingencies, 18% of total project cost)
Student Loan Program. The Institute of Educational Credit of the State of Sonora (ICEES - Instituto de
Cr6dito Educativo del Estado de Sonora) has been successful in providing student loans in this state since
1981 and has developed a ten-year strategic plan for the improvement and expansion of its student loan
program. This subcomponent would support this plan, thus contributing to increased access to higher
education and to the strengthening of a demand-side financing experience that could serve as a model.
Beneficiaries. The beneficiaries of the ICEES loan program would be academically qualified, low- and
middle-income students born in or residents of the state of Sonora who wish to enroll in higher education
institutions. ICEES has estimated that it will increase its beneficiaries during the five project years by 12%
each year (increasing to a total of approximately 21,000 students by the year 2002). This estimate was
deemed the most realistic given the 1994 crisis and the projections of student enrollment and educational
loan demand for the State of Sonora. The percentage of low- and middle-income students receiving ICEES
loans will be maintained equal to or above the higher education enrollment rates in the State of Sonora for
these socioeconomic groups. Presently, about 75% of the recipients of ICEES loans come from low-
income families and 24% from middle-income families. In comparison, 72% of university students in the
State of Sonora are low-income students and 26% are middle-income.4
In order to reach these objectives, ICEES has been revising its evaluation and selections instruments to
better reflect targeting goals (see Annex 2B). Furthermore, in order to ensure effective monitoring of its
goals, ICEES has carried out a survey of the socioeconomic background of its beneficiaries and of
university students in the State of Sonora. A similar survey would be carried out on a yearly basis.
Terms and Conditions of Loans. Each individual ICEES contract will continue to cover a maximum study
period of 12 months (on average 4 to 5 months). The present loan product, however, distinguishes itself
4This data is based on the 1997 socioeconomic survey of university students that was carried out by ICEES in the State of
Sonora.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 33
Country: Mexico                                                   Project Titl: Higher Education Financing Project
from the previous ICEES product in three ways. First, the interest rate for each contract would be
(according to the proposed ICEES operational manual) equivalent to the official inflation rate estimate for
the contract year as published by the Bank of Mexico. Second, compounded interest rates would be used in
the calculations of student debt. Third, a longer repayment period would be provided. These changes have
been made on the basis of financial projections and demand surveys and are directed at reducing the interest
rate subsidy and decreasing the student's monthly debt burden.
Legal and Institutional Arrangements for Program Administration. ICEES, BANOBRAS and the
Federal Government (i.e., SHCP, SEP, CONACYT) have reached agreement on the legal structure for
ICEES and the mechanisms for the transfer of funds. The Government has selected BANOBRAS to be the
borrower and trustee and thus, to serve as the financial vehicle to receive and manage the World Bank loan
proceeds for this project. The Government, through SHCP, will constitute a Trust Fund for which
BANOBRAS will act as Trustee and the Government as grantor. The Trust will be the vehicle to transfer
the proceeds of the Loan to ICEES. The Trust Fund will also receive repayments from ICEES
corresponding to the servicing of the World Bank Loan and transfer the money back to the Federal
Government (see Graph B).
Financial Sustainability. In order for ICEES to be financially sustainable, it is crucial that the State of
Sonora does not reduce its level of budgetary support to ICEES. Only this way will the World Bank funds
contribute to the Institute's equity objectives. The State Government of Sonora has already submitted to
the SHCP an official document confirming the State's commitment to continue to financially support
ICEES at a level equal - in real terms - to the present funding level.
Institutional Strengthenin . ICEES will continue being responsible for all loan operations. ICEES has
valuable experience in terms of evaluation and selection mechanisms and its loan collection record has been
relatively good (10% default rate until the 1994 peso crisis). Furthermore, all loan applications, loan
processing, payments and loan collection are fully automated. However, the following problems were
detected in an analysis of the institution's capacity to absorb the expansion of their operations: (i) an
accounting code structure that does not take into account management control requirements, (ii) the absence
of explicit financial administration policies, (iii) insufficient integration of the accounting and loan
collection processes, and (iv) the lack of professional development plans. In order to address these issues,
technical assistance to help the Institute design and implement a long-term institutional development plan
will be financed under this subcomponent. The equipment and training this plan would require for its
implementation would also be financed. In the short term, the subcomponent would finance basic computer
equipment and technical assistance in order to respond to the Institution's more immediate needs.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 34
Country: Mexico                                                   Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 2.B: TARGETING STRATEGY
ICEES and SOFES are targeting their loans to low- and middle-income students. Both institutions are
using the same methodology for classifying students by socioeconomic background. However, due to the
differences in the character of the two institutions and the products they offer, SOFES and ICEES will use
different methodologies for selecting beneficiaries. This annex will briefly describe: (i) the methodology
that has been developed to define students' socioeconomic background and (ii) the evaluation and selection
methodology that will be used by each institution. More details on the selection process and methodology,
including sample case studies, can be found in the project file.
Definition of Socioeconomic Status
The classifications of socioeconomic background that were available in Mexico (e.g., INEGI) did not
provide the finer categorization required for targeting SOFES and ICEES loans. What was needed was a
methodology that would not only differentiate students by high, middle and low-income but would also
allow further sub-classification of each of these three categories. An appropriate methodology that
responded to these needs was developed by a research team at the University of Monterrey. The
development of the instrument began with a thorough literature review of different methodologies used
around the world, particularly in Europe. One-hundred and forty indicators were identified and through
various validation processes, a group of indicators that were appropriate for Mexico were selected. The
capacity of these indicators to differentiate the socioeconomic levels of public university students was
demonstrated in a study that was carried out at the Autonomous University of Coahuila. Further studies
have helped distinguish a set of indicators that are valid for both public and private universities. For
example, the number of books at home was a highly discriminating variable for students in public
universities but its discriminating capacity did not hold among students enrolled in private universities.
The following nine variables have been selected to assess the socioeconomic status of: (i) students enrolled
in project-related universities and (ii) potential beneficiaries of the ICEES and SOFES loan programs:
VI. Ownership of a car by student (Yes or No)
V2. Type of primary school student attended (primary or public)
V3. Ownership of a computer by student (Yes or No)
V4. Father's level of schooling (none, primary, secondary, technical education, bachillerato, higher
education or normal superior, postgraduate)
V5. Principal economic activity of father or father figure (Twenty-one different activities. The weight
attached to each activity has been empirically proven with samples over 1000 students.)
V6. Ownership of a car by student's mother (Yes or No)
V7. Size of home (5 different ranges)
V8. Average monthly family income (8 different categories of net monthly income. The categories were
selected to differentiate among potential higher education candidates - differentiation is greatest
between 5000 and 60,000 pesos a month.)
V9. Economic security for completing university studies (Yes, No, or Urnkown)
The stratification levels and index were determined using cluster analyses. The resulting stratification
index is expressed by:
Vl + V3 + V9 + [.61279*(V2 + V6)] + [.5834*(V4+V5)] + [.58865*(V7+V8)]
The ranges used to define the various socioeconoznic levels are presented in Table 1. The minimnum value
of the index is 2.1 and the maximum is 28.1. The potential market for the SOFES and ICEES loans is
students who fall on or between the High A and Marginal socioeconomic levels.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 35
Country: Mexico                                                      Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 1. Classification of Students' Socioeconomic Level using Stratification Index
Socioeconomic Level           Interval of Stratification Index
High C                        27.0 to 28.99
High B                        24.0 to 26.99
High A                        21.0 to 23.99
Middle C                       18.0 to 20.99
Middle B                       15.0 to 17.99
Middle A                       12.0 to 14.99
Low C                         9.0 to 11.99
Low B                         6.0 to 8.99
Low A                         3.1 to 5.99
Marginal                      2.1 to 3.0
Evaluation and Selection Process and Matrixes
SOFES
The selection process and matrix for the SOFES loan program takes into consideration academic
background, financial need and field of study to deternine a student's eligibility to financial aid, as well as
the most appropriate mix of scholarships and loans for each profile.
Students are eligible to SOFES student loans if they: (i) have a minimum grade point average of 7, and (ii)
fall on or between the Marginal and High A socioeconomic categories. The student's socioeconomic
background is defined by using a questionnaire that follows the methodology described in the previous
section.
The loans are assigned to eligible candidates on the basis of the amount of available loans, the
institutional targeting goals, the level of economic need and the elected area of study. If there is a larger
demand than supply of loans, preference will be given to students with higher academic standing. The
socioeconomic targeting goals that will guide the overall assignment of loans are presented in Table 2.
The percentage of tuition covered by the loans will vary according to the level of economic need and the
elected area of study. For example, students with the greatest financial need would be eligible to receive a
larger proportion of scholarship funds and a smaller-sized loan in order to cover tuition fees. In contrast,
individuals with less financial need in fields of study that have greater earning potential would have less
access to scholarships but would be eligible for a larger-sized loan. The guidelines that would be used for
distributing loans and scholarships are presented in Table 3 and 4. The maximum level of tuition that
would be covered with loans and scholarships is 100 percent.1
The entire process of evaluation, selection and loan assignment would be computerized, facilitating greater
accuracy and speed in the assignment and targeting of the loans. The socioeconomic data provided by the
students would be verified by an external firm specialized in this work.
The maximnum level of tuition that can be covered with loans is 70% and with scholarships is 50%.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 36
Country: Mexico                                                            Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 2. Distribution of SOFES beneficiaries by socioeconomic level (targeting goals)
Percentage Distribution of
Socioeconomic Level            SOFES Loan Product
(including Loan/Scholarship
Mix)
High C                                       0%
High B                                       0%
High A                                      2.7%
Middle C                                    8.7%
Middle B                                    18.8%
Middle A                                    30.2%
Low C                                      21.0%
Low B                                       13.1%
Low A                                       5.5%
Marginal                                     0%
Total              100%
Table 3. Loan and Scholarship Assignment for Regular Loan Beneficiaries
Max. % of Tuition that could be covered by Loans         Max. % of
tuition
Category I        Category II        Category III       that could be
Economic Need    Humanities and    Economics and           Engineering        covered with
Factor (FNx)2     Social Sciences3    Administration       (excluding        Scholarships
Chemical)
FNx <.08                 30%                40%                 50%                50%
FNx <.15                 40%                50%                 60%                25%
FNx <.30                 40%                55%                 60%                  -
FNx <.50                 50%                60%                 70%
FNx <.68                 50%                60%                 70%
2The economic need factor (FNx) is determined by dividing the amount of income available for education by the average cost
of the university. The amount of income available for education (LAE) is defined as 15% of total family income divided by the
number of dependents age four to twenty-two. The average cost of the university (ACU) is defined as the enrollment fee plus
the monthly tuition. In other words:
IAE = 15%/o(total family income/number of dependents age 4 to 22)
ACU = enrollment + monthly tuition
FNx = IAE/ACU
Also including odontology, architecture, and the last two years of Medicine and Chemical Engineering.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 37
Country: Mexico                                                      Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 4. Loan and Scholarship Assignment for High Risk Loan Beneficiaries4
Max. % of Tuition that could be covered by Loans    Max. % of
tuition
Category I       Category II      Category III     that could be
Economic Need    Humanities and    Economics and      Engineering       covered with
Factor (FNx)    Social Sciences    Administration     (excluding       Scholarships
Chemical)
FNx<.08                20%               30%               40%              50%
FNx <.15               30%               40%               50%              25%
FNx <.30               30%               45%               50%
FNx <.50               40%               50%               60%
FNx <.68               40%               50%               60%
ICEES
For the ICEES loan program, the selection process that has been designed takes into consideration: the
student's individual characteristics (e.g., academic background, study plans, financial need, socioeconomic
background), the potential for loan recovery, and the institutional targeting goals. The instruments used
during the process have been computerized and will be linked to ICEES's monitoring system. The process
involves the following three steps.
The first step is aimed at determining a student's eligibility to a student loan for higher education. Students
are deemed eligible to the loans if they: (i) are natives of Sonora or residents for at least three consecutive
years immediately prior to receiving the student loan, (ii) wish to enroll in a higher education institution and
present a study plan (proyecto educativo); (iii) fall in any socioeconomic category (other than the
categories "high C" and "high B"), and (iv) have a guarantor.
The second step is aimed at classifying and prioritizing eligible students, taking into consideration the
student's financial need, their academic profile and the potential for loan recovery. The evaluation matrix
that has been developed for this purpose considers the following factors:
With regards to financial need.
* Total cost of education
* Purpose of loan proceeds (e.g., main educational costs such as tuition, books and supplies,
transportation)
* Available financial support from family
* Student's socioeconomic background (evaluation using the variables described in the previous section,
that is: principal economic activity of father or father figure, average monthly family income, father's level
of schooling, economic security for completing university studies, size of home, personal use of car,
ownership of a computer by student, type of primary school student attended, and ownership of a car by
student's mother).
With regards to the potentialfor loan recovery:
* Field of study
* Guarantor
* Stability of household location
* Educational institution chosen for studies (related to potential for employment).
4 Grade point average is lower than 8 and does not have a mortgage-free property.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 38
Country: Mexico                                                         Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
With regards to the students academic background:
* Average academic record (grade point average)
The exact weight provided to each factor in the matrix is being revised.
The third step is the selection of loan recipients on the basis of the classification and prioritization resulting
from the previous evaluation (step 2) and the institutional targeting goals. The targeting goals may vaiy
during the project years since an effort will be made to maintain the percentage of low- and middle-income
students receiving credits equal to or above the higher education enrollment rates of these socioeconomic
groups in the State of Sonora. The targeting goals for the first project year are:
Socioeconomic        % of Students Receiving
Category               Student Loans
Low-income                       73%
Middle-income                    26%
High "A"                          1%
If there is a larger demand than supply of loans for a specific socioeconomic level, preference will be given
to those students receiving the highest score in the financial need/loan recovery evaluation (first step).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 39
Country: Mexico                                                     Project Title: Higher Education Financing Projed
GRAPH A
GENERAL STRUCTURE FOR THE OPERATION OF
SOFES STUDENT LOAN
1                                      BANO~~~~~~~BRAS
WORLD                               IBRD Loan                       Financial agent
BANK        j*Legal Agent
Guarantees IBRD loan
Transfers IBRD loan proceeds
I                                                                on behalf of
Federal Government (SHCP).
GOVERNMENT                FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
* SHCP - Creates Public Trust Fund;
 SEP-CONACYT.- Contributes 2.5% to,
Guarantee and Reserve Fund.     
t  PULICTRUST FUND 
SHCP as grantor
SOFES-SOFOL-
* Contributes to Public Trust Fund;
* Contributes 2.5% to Guarantee and
Reserve Fund.
* Reimburses World Bank Loan
* Transfers resources in accordance
with the Operational Rules;
SOFES         <                                             * Contributes resources to reduce cos
of loan to students.
Provides Loans to Students



Project Appiasal Document                                                                            Page 40
Country: Medco                                                           Project Title: Higher Education Financin Proect
GRAPH B
GENERAL STRUCTURE FOR THE OPERATION OF THE
ICEES STUDENT LOAN COMPONENT
WORLD                                                                   BANOBRAS
BANK                                 IBRD Loan                       * Financial agent
* Legal Agent
Guarantees IBRD loan
Transfers IBRD loan proceeds
I                                                                   - on behalf of
FEDERAL                                                            Federal Govemment (SHCP).
GOVERNMENT
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT -
*SHCP - Creates to Public Trust Fund_r
t  PULICTRUSTFN A
STATE OF                                                                 SHCP as grantor
SONORA
I   Provides budgetary resources
* Transfers resources in accordance
ICEES          ________________________________               Awith the  Operational Rules;
* Contributes resources to reduce cost
of loan to students.
*Provides Loan to Students
*Reimburses World Bank Loan



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 41
Country: Mexico                                                            Project Ttbe: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Project Component                                                  Local          Foreign          Total
US $ million
Development of the SOFES Student Loan Scheme                        212.7            1.1           213.8
Strengthening of the ICEES Student Loan Scheme                      46.1            0.4            46.5
Total Baseline Cost                                                 258.8            1.5           260.3
Physical Contingencies                                            1.3             0.1            1.4
Price Contingencies                                              26.2            0.1             26.3
Total Project Cost                                                  286.3            1.6           287.9
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 42
Country: Mexico                                                     Projed Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 4: EcONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
This chapter on the economic analysis of the Mexico Higher Education Financing project starts with an
introductory discussion of how the project fits into the Country Assistance Strategy, what are the links
with Economic and Sector Work, and what is the rationale for public sector intervention. The economic
analysis is divided into four parts: (i) a cost-effectiveness analysis to justify the choice of interventions, (ii)
a financial analysis to establish the viability of the proposed schemes, (iii) an analysis of the
macroeconomic impact to assess the fiscal burden of the project, and (iv) an equity impact analysis
examining the social benefits of the project.
1. Link to the CAS
Even though the 1996 CAS had not specifically mentioned higher education as a priority area in the social
sectors, the project is fully consistent with the CAS objectives of economic growth and social development.
The project constitutes a first phase intervention to support the Government's medium term strategy to
expand and improve higher education, complementing on-going Bank lending for basic education and IDB
lending for secondary education.
The main economic rationale for the proposed project is linked to the growth and productivity issue in
Mexico. In contrast with the trend observed in other fast-growing countries of the region, such as Chile,
Brazil and Argentina, Mexico lags behind in terms of productivity growth. One of the contributing factors
is believed to be the lack of appropriate skills in the labor force. This relates, in turn, to the low level of
enrollment in higher education and the poor quality of many of the programs offered. The proposed project
will help low- and middle-income students to attend good-quality programs at private universities which
they could not otherwise access for lack of financial resources. Support for demand-side financing will
also promote competition among universities and improve the quality of education overall. For example,
FIMPES has a strict accreditation system for the admission of its members in partnership with US
accreditation associations. Six member universities were recently expelled because they had failed to
comply with the accreditation requirement. In the State of Sonora, student loans are given only for
enrollment in academically qualified higher education institutions. More and better qualified graduates,
thus, will be entering the work force, contributing to increases in labor productivity.
With respect to social development, the program will contribute to a better targeting of social spending as
both student loan agencies, ICEES and SOFES, will incorporate strict socio-economic criteria in their
selection and evaluation process. For this purpose, the first comprehensive surveys of the socio-economic
background of students have been conducted in SOFES private universities and in a representative sample
of higher education institutions in the State of Sonora. Strengthening the capacity of student loan
institutions to target their services to academically qualified but financially needy students will contribute to
the more efficient use of public and private resources for higher education. In addition, strengthening
demand-side financing of higher education will help the Government finance investments in education.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 43
Country: Mexico                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
2. LinktoESW
Because the project came as an urgent Government request for assistance in a new area, upstream Bank
economic and sector work was replaced by mn-depth analytical studies prepared by consultants hired by
FIMPES/SOFES and ICEES (Integrades, Booz and Allen Hamilton of Mexico, Matrix S.C., etc). These
studies included among others an assessment of the demand for different professions, a survey of salaries in
industry, financial projections under different scenarios, surveys of the socio-economic background of
students, and an analysis of the macroeconomic impact of each project component. The Bank's
preparation team relied also on the results of the recently-published OECD evaluation report on the
Mexican higher education system.
3. Rationale for public sector involvement
The rationale for public sector involvement in student loan programs for middle and low-income students is
supported by the following considerations:
a) The planned expansion of higher education cannot be funded exclusively with public resources. The
public sector faces a scarcity of economic resources to spur growth, particularly after the financial
crisis at the end of 1994. Increasing coverage, thus, can be achieved only if public higher education
institutions are able to generate additional resources, through tuition fees and other income-generating
measures, and if private universities manage to absorb a growing share of higher education
enrollments. Unlike most public universities, private universities have unutilized capacity to expand
enrollment and broaden their enrollment base.
b) Student loans are a channel through which private sector funds can contribute to the expansion of
higher education. However, the existing private sector loan programs offered by commercial banks do
not have the capacity to spur the level of growth required in an equitable manner because:
*  The number of lenders is small. Student loans is a relatively new area of financing in Mexico. The
few initiatives in the past were small and not successful, especially following the 1994 financial
crisis. In fact, the scale of financing required is well beyond private sector resources where any
willingness to support may exist.,
*  The motivation of lenders is purely commercial -- to offer loans to students whose chosen course of
study is associated with high income earning potential. The terms offered are almost parallel to
short term commercial terms, with some interest concession, and repayment terms are restricted to
the length of the study period. They, thus, cater in practice to students from higher income
families. The commercial terms are not to students from middle and lower income families.
c) Therefore, in order to ensure a sufficient and an equitable growth of higher education enrollment, there
is a need to increase the number of available loans and their affordability. The public sector's
responsibility to ensure equity and spur growth positions it as an important supporter of loan programs
which would help academically eligible students from middle and lower income families to obtain
quality post-secondary education on affordable terms.  Experience in both industrialized and
developing countries has shown that concessionary terms are an essential element to bring post-
secondary education to students from middle and low-income groups. Furthermore, assisting in the
establishment of student loan programs will contribute to the modernization of the state, by helping it
move from the direct provision of education services to becoming a partner in financing and in sharing
the risk of human capital investments with the students who are the principal beneficiaries.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 44
Country: Mexico                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
The World Bank would play a key catalytic role in providing technical guidance and seed financing. Based
on its international experience in support of student loan programs, the Bank could ensure that the
proposed scheme would be designed for sustainability and operated in an efficient manner, thus enhancing
the prospects of developing the Mexican market for student loans in the future.
I. Choice of Intervention: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis
The project is expected to have many complementary benefits. First, the results of recent rates of return
calculations confirm that investment in higher education is highly justified from both the private and social
viewpointe. Between 1984 and 1994, the private rate of return to higher education increased from 13 to 21
percent, while the rate of return to primary education decreased marginally from 15 to 14 percent.
Similarly, the social rate of return for university education rose from 10 to 14 percent, while the rate of
return to primary education went down from 14 to 12 percent. Second, the student loan schemes supported
by the project will help improve the targeting of human capital investments in Mexico. Third, it will help
introduce incentives for public sector universities to initiate reforms on their own. Fourth, the project will
contribute to strengthening the private higher education sector. Finally, the project will have a positive
impact on the efficiency of the higher education system. By offering loan opportunities to students, the
Government will share the risk of human capital investment with the direct beneficiaries, who in turn will
have incentives to choose high quality programs and shorten the elapsed time at the university.
Since rate of return analysis cannot fully capture all these benefits in a comprehensive way, the discussion
of the justification of the project's choice of interventions focuses on two dimensions of cost-effectiveness.
First, student loans were contrasted with traditional grants such as those offered by the Government
through the National Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT). Second, within the FIMPES
component, two loan collection approaches were compared, one involving a centralized organizational
model (SOFES responsible for all aspects) and one relying on decentralized SOFES windows in each
participating university.
1. Loans vs. Grants
The following analysis presents the costs and benefits of the student loan program compared to the
traditional alternative of a straight grant program. The main purpose is to determine which of the two
programs is relatively less costly in terms of Government financial contribution. The analysis is performed
separately for the two components of the project: (1)- the development of the private sector student loan
scheme (SOFES) and (2)- the strengthening of the Sonora student loan scheme (ICEES). For each
component, the indicator used to measure effectiveness in providing greater access to higher education for
academically qualified but financially needy students is the number of students benefiting from a loan or a
grant.
a- SOFES
This component will provide assistance (loans and grants) to 32,840 student by the year 2003. Table 1
compares the cost of the student loan program with a straight grant program. The benefits of the schemes
will be measured by the number of new students from low- and middle-income families that enroll in
SOFES universities. The cost-effectiveness ratio (3) of column 1 and column 2 of table 1 indicates clearly
that the student loan program is less costly, except when the default rate is very high (greater that 26%).
1 LAchier, U. (1997). "Education and Earnings Inequality in Mexico", The World Bank, unpublished paper.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 45
Country: Mexico                                                          Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 1. SOFES
Net Cost         Number of students from       Cost-
(in thousands of US$)'  low- and middle-income   Effectiveness
families beneficiaries of    Ratio
(1)                the program
(2)                  (3)
Student loan program
Scenario I (95% recovery2)           239,874.3                 32,071                 7.5
Scenario II (80% recovery)           170,203.7                                        5.3
Scenario III (65% recovery)          100,556.2                                        3.1
Grant program3                       140,884.9                 32,071                 4.4
Net present value of the cash flows for each of the programs (at a discount rate of 10%)
2 These scenarios explore 3 levels of default on loan repayment (5, 20 and 35 percent respectively).
3 The administrative costs for the grant program were assumed 20% lower than the administrative costs for the
loan scheme (since there are no collection costs). The other costs were assumed to be equivalent. The inflows for
the grant program were assumed the same as the ones in the student loan scheme, except for loan recovery (which
is zero in this case).
b- ICEES
The beneficiaries of the ICEES loan program would be academically qualified, low- and middle-income
students born in, or residents of the State of Sonora attending a private or public university. By the year
2002, the Institute would be providing loans to approximately 21,000 students per year. Table 2 follows
the same methodology as the one used to compare loans and grants for the SOFES component.
Table 2. ICEES
Net cost        Numnber of students from low-    Cost-
(in thousands of US$)'   and middle-income families   EffectivenessR
beneficiaries of the program    atio
(2)~~~~~~~~~~3
Student loan program
Scenario 1 (90% recovery2)            46,148.3                   25,092                  1.9
Scenario II (88% recovery)            44,860.2                                           1.8
Scenario III (86% recovery)           44,624.5                                           1.7
Grant program3                         235.4                     25,092                 0.01
' Net present value of the cash flows for each of the programs (at a discount rate of 10%)
2 These scenarios explore 3 levels of default on loan repayment (10, 12 and 14 percent respectively).
3 The administrative costs for the grant program were assumed 20% lower than the administrative costs for the
loan scheme (since there are no collection costs). The other costs were assumed to be equivalent. The inflows for
the grant program were assumed the sane as the ones in the student loan scheme, except for loan recovery (which
is zero in this case).
While the numbers vary, the overall result is the same in each case. Offering loans would be by far more
cost-effective than administering a traditional grant program.
2. Collection Methods



Project Appraisal Document                                                                        Page 46
Country: Mexico                                                        Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
In designing the SOFES component, two altemative collection arrangements have been considered. The
first one assumes that the participating universities play an active role in loan collection and that the central
SOFES office intervenes only in case of payment default where normal follow up has not been sufficient.
The second option looks at the cost-effectiveness of centralizing all collection arrangements to achieve
economies of scale. The following table compares the costs of the two alternative collection arrangements.
Table 3. Cost-Effectiveness of Alternative Collection Arrangement SOFES-University
(Thousands ofpesos)
Decentralized       Centralized
Total    %         Total    %
I- Costs of each satellite office:          5,979    0.7       3,078    0.3
Payroll                                   4,740    0.6        1,840    0.2
Communication costs                        601      0.1         0      0.0
Printing                                   638      0.1         0      0.0
II. In SOFES:                              855,531   99.3      904,770   99.7
Payroll                                   76,000    8.8      124,000   13.7
Communication costs                          0      0.0        601      0.1
Printing                                     0      0.0        638      0.1
Collection through bank (annual)          29,531    3.4       29,531    3.3
Payments to the legal department          750,000   87.1     750,000   82.6
Total estinated costs (monthly and in pesos)  861,510  100.0     907,848  100.0
Annual Total Cost    Recovery     Loan repayment
rate
Decentralized collection           10,338,120          95%            1,123,625
Centralized collection             10,894,176          80%             946,211
These figures indicate that the centralized collection arrangement (alternative 2) has a higher cost per
month than alternative 1 which is around 5% cheaper, and its overall cost-effectiveness is much greater,
considering that the repayment rates would be higher than with a decentralized structure. Under the
decentralized collection, SOFES would rely principally on the small satellite offices in each university,
delegating to them the primary responsibility for loan processing and collection. The small satellite offices
would be responsible for initial loan collection and would be financed by the respective universities. One of
the key advantages of the decentralized collection is the closer relationship between the universities and the
students, which is expected to result in higher repayment levels.
II. Financial Feasibility And Sustainablity Analysis
1- SOFES student loan program
Financial projections were prepared to assess the long term viability of the proposed student loan scheme.
The parameters and basic assumptions of the cash-flow model are presented in table 1 in annex A.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 47
Country: Mexico                                                             Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
A number of scenarios were constructed under different assumptions regarding the interest rates to students
(UDIS+2 and UDIS), the level of subsidy financed by the government (0%, 2% and 4%) and default rates
(5%/o, 20% and 35%), with the idea of measuring the sensibility of the project to changes in these conditions.
The results of this sensitivity analysis is presented in table 4.
Table 4 Sensitivity Analysis: Net Present Value under Different Hypotheses (SOFES)
(Thousands ofpesos)
UDI                                    UDI + 2
0%           2%            4%            0%            2%            4%
5%        1,922,426.5   2,018,935.2   2,115,443.9   1,822,485.4   1,918,994.2   2,015,502.9
20%       1,387,894.9   1,484,403.7   1,580,912.4   1,265,121.0   1,361,629.7   1,458,138.4
35%    1853,363.4    949,872.1    1,046,380.9    707,941.0    804,449.7    900,958.4
Exchange rate = 8 pesos per US$.
These scenarios show that the project will have a positive net present value even under very difficult
conditions, such as high default rates, zero subsidy from the government and high interest rates to the
students.
2- ICEES student loan program
A similar analysis was conducted in the case of the ICEES student loan program. The generic financial
model is presented in table 2 of annex A, while the results of the sensitivity analysis appear in table 5.
Table 5 Sensitivity Analysis: Net Present Value under Different Hypotheses aCEES)
Scenarios*                  Beneficiaries          NPV
Growth Rate       (000s of pesos)
UDI + 4           Optimnistic           11.4              46,042.1
Realistic            11.5             42,613.5
Pessimistic           10.7             42,496.5
UDI + 2           Optimistic            12.7              46,148.3
Realistic            11.3             44,860.2
Pessimistic           10.6             44,624.5
UDI             Optimistic             13.9             46,322.2
Realistic            12.5             45,088.7
Pessimistic           11.8             44,857.0
The scenarios constructed differ in the interest rate charge to students (UDI+4, UDI+2, and
UDI flat) and consequently in the beneficiaries growth rate. Furthermore, the optimistic scenarios
assumed a 10% default rate, while the realistic scenario, 12%, and the pessirmistic, 14%.
The figures presented above reveal that, even under the more pessimistic repayment scenarios, the financial
viability of the Institute is guaranteed over the fifteen years of the project (including the repayment period
of the World Bank loan).
In addition to looking at the net present value of the student loan scheme under different scenarios, the
evolution of the subsidy level was measured (table 6) to verify that the World Bank loan would enable
ICEES to reduce its dependence on budgetary funds from the State of Sonora. The figures presented below
indicate that subsidy rates were higher in the early 90s (40.1%) but they have been decreasing in recent



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 48
Country: Mexico                                                          Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
years and will stabilize at a reasonable level in the future (around 20%). Thus, a significant improvement
could be anticipated, even under the more pessimistic scenarios. This reflects the positive impact of the
project on ICEES in terms of moving from negative interest rates to a zero real interest rate and from
simple interest rates to compound interest rates
Table 6 - Evolution of the Level of Subsidy (ICEES)
(Subsidy)/Sobre tasa
Year               Scenario I'           Scenario H 2           Scenario Ill3
(Optimistic)           (Realistbc)           (Pesnistic)
1989                  -40.1                 -40.1                  -40.1
1990                  -36.2                  -36.2                 -36.2
1991                  -45.4                  -45.4                  -45.4
1992                  -55.6                  -55.6                 -55.6
1993                  -58.6                  -58.6                  -58.6
1994                  -57.6                  -57.6                 -57.6
1995                  -31.0                  -31.0                 -31.0
1996                  -21.0                  -21.0                 -21.0
1997                  -15.6                  -15.6                 -15.6
1998                   19.5                  17.9                   16.2
1999                   7.5                    5.9                    4.2
2000                   -5.6                  -7.4                   -9.2
2001                  -19.9                  -21.6                  -23.6
2002                  -19.5                  -21.1                  -23.2
2003                  -19.5                  -21.2                  -23.3
'Scenario I: assumes a default rate of 10 %, beneficiaries annual growth rate of 12.7% and an interest
rate of UDI+2.
2 Scenario II: assumes a default rate of 12 %, beneficiaries annual growth rate of 11.3% and an interest
rate of UDI+2.
3 Scenario III: assumes a default rate of 14 %, beneficiaries annual growth rate of 10.6% and an interest
rate of UDI+2.
III. Macroeconomic Fiscal Impact
This section measures the macroeconomic fiscal impact of the project by comparing the direct budgetary
cost to the Government linked to the subsidies offered in support of SOFES and ICEES with the savings
associated with the operation of student loan schemes. The main assumptions behind this analysis is that,
(1) in the absence of these loan schemes, a larger number of students would have to be accommodated in
the public universities as they would not be able to attend private universities (substitution effect), and (2)
public universities such as the University of Sonora would not be allowed to charge tuition fees. Slightly
different methodologies were used for SOFES and ICEES, recognizing the distinctiveness of each
component and setting.
1- SOFES
In the case of SOFES, the analysis performed in table 7 measures (i) the savings in public spending due to
the fact that students are paying their way into private universities instead of benefiting from free public
higher education, and (ii) Government support to SOFES. The table also presents a sensitivity analysis of
the savings for different levels of govermment support.



ProJect Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 49
Country: Medco                                                                   ProJect Td: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 7. Macroeconomic Fiscal Impact (SOFES)
(thousands ofpesos)
b-Annual cost per student (public universities)                13.4           13.4
c-Total cost (public universities)                           335,000        1,675,000
d-Annual cost per student (private universities)               22.5           22.5
e-Totia cost (private universities)                          562,744        2,813,720
f-Support at 8.50/%/80% of total cost private univ.           38,267         191,333
g-Equivalent students in public universities (fib) '.         2,856           2,856
h-Multiplier effect (a/g) 2                                     9               9
Support at 7.0Y/80% of total cost private univ.              31,514         157,568
Equivalent students in public universities.                   2,352           2,352
Multiplier effect                                               11             11
Support at 5.50/J/80% of total cost private univ.             24,761         123,804
Equivalent students in public universities.                    1,848          1,848
Multiplier effect                                               14             14
Support at 4.0/J/80% of total cost private univ.             18,008         90,039
Equivalent students in public universities.                    1,344          1,344
Multiplier effect                                               19             19
Support at 2.50/o80% of total cost private univ.              11,255         56,274
Equivalent students in public universities.                    840             840
Multiplier effect                                               30             30
'The equivalent students are the number of students that can be enroll in public universities by the student
loan program, per 25,000 students in private universities.
2 The multiplier effect represent the number of students that can be enrolled in private universities by the
student loan program, for each student attending public universities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                   Page 50
Country: Meadco                                                                Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Sensitivity analysis of different level of government subsidies
(Thousand ofpesos 1996 and number of students)
Equivalent   Saving in public Subsidies during
Subsidy level       Multiplier (1)   students (2)    spending (3)    5 years (4)
Guarantee fund (2.5 %)          30            840          323,745        56,274
Guarantee fund (4%)             19           1,344         316,992        90,039
Guarantee fund (5.5%)           14           1,848         310,239        123,804
Guarantee fund (7.0%)           11           2,352         303,486        157,568
Guarantee fund (8.5 %)          9            2,856         296,733        191,333
(1)= Number of students that can be enrolled in private universities by the student loan program,
for each student attending public universities
(2)= Number of students that can be enrolled in public universities by the student loan program,
per 25,000 students attending private universities
(3)= Resources saved by the public sector if 25,000 students are enrolled through the student loan pro
compared to enrolling them directly in public universities.
(4) Amount of subsidies, during 5 years, through the student loan program.
The analysis reveals that the project would generate considerable savings of public resources, regardless of
the level of subsidy. Moreover, the analysis predict that the loan program would generate additional public
resources from income taxes (generated once the students enter the labor market), even after taking the
subsidies into account. The savings are in the order of 90% of what the federal government would have
had to pay if it incurred the total costs of providing education to those students.
2- ICEES
In the case of the Sonora Student Loan Institute, emphasis was put on calculating the amount of additional
resources that would be generated for public and private higher education institutions through tuition fees,
as well as the increased optimization of public investment and recurrent spending (table 8 next page). A
key assumption is that, in the absence of a student loan program, a large proportion of beneficiaries would
not have been able to attend private universities or even the fee-charging public university. Another
important assumption is that student loan beneficiaries enable their universities to realize savings because
of their better academic performance. This is backed up by a study prepared by ICEES documenting that
its beneficiaries had significantly better results than regular students (higher grades and graduation rates).
The analysis of the macroeconomic fiscal impact indicate that, by the year 2002, the loan program would
account for an additional 109 million pesos for public universities and 196 million pesos for private higher
education institutions. The analysis also reveals that, owing to the better academic performance and
graduation rate of the beneficiaries of a student loan, the existence of the Student Loan Institute pernits a
more optimal use of public sector resources.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 51
Country Mwdco                                                               Project Tile: Higher Educatin Finncirg Project
Table 8 Macroecononic Fiscal Impact (ICEES)
(thousands ofpesos)
1996                        2002
Without loan    With loan    Without loan    With loan
I- Additional resources to public universities  -     41,773,408        -         109,625,542
II- Additional resources to private         -         67,768,096        -         196,237,260
universities
m- Optimization of public investment     76,656        52,069         84,322        56,849
(cost of graduating students)        I                           I      ,I_
1. Number of students who, without a loan, cannot enroll in public institutions, times the cost of four years of
studies (assuming a 10% increase in tuition fees by 2002).
2. Number of students who, without a loan, cannot enroll in private universities, times the cost of four years of
studies (assuming a 20% increase in tuition fees by 2002).
3. Assumptions: 3% of expenditure per student for equipment and building, 10% increase in public investment per
student by 2002, 53% terminal efficiency of students without a loan, 85% terminal efficiency of students with a
loan, public subsidies represent 58% of ICEES budget.
IV. Equity Impact
This section looks at changes in the rate of access to higher education among different income groups as a
result of the project.
The student loan program will be directed to financially needy students. However, for students from the
poorest families, it is feared that the student loan program will not be an option unless it is subsidized, since
their repayment capacity after graduation is low. Therefore, the program is studying the possibility of
complementing the loans with some grants. Currently, private universities are required by law to provide
grants to 5 percent of their students.
The first survey of the socio-economic distribution of students in SOFES universities was conducted in
1997, providing baseline data to assess the present situation and prepare projections of the project's
potential impact. Tables 9 and 10 show how the loans and grants will be assigned among different income
classes and what the overall social impact of the project will be.



Projct Apprisal Document                                                                                      Page 52
Country. Mexico                                                                 Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 9. Distribution of loans and grants among different income groups
Present                                  Loans with           Enrollment in
Income group   Enrollment   %      Loans only     %       Grants       %         2003        %
High C           207        0.1         0         0.0        0         0.0        207        0.1
High B           8,713      4.2         0         0.0        0         0.0       8,713       3.6
HighA           27,383      13.2       769        3.0        0         0.0       28,152      11.7
36,303     175        769        3.0         0         0.0      37,072      15.4
Medium C        43,356      20.9      2,306       9.0        0         0.0       45,662      19.0
Medium B2       47,090      22.7      4,869      19.0       487        6.7       52,446     21.8
Medium A        37,755      18.2      7,688      30.0       769        10.7      46,212      19.2
128,201     61.8     14,863      58.0       1,256      17.4     144,320     60.1
LowC            23,856      11.5      5,381      21.0      2,691       37.3      31,928      13.3
LowB            13,692      6.6       3,331       13.0      1,666      23.1      18,689      7.8
LowA3            5,394      2.6       1,281       5.0       1,602      22.2      8,277       3.4
Marginal          1         0.0         0         0.0        0         0.0         1         0.0
42,943     20.7       9,993      39.0      5,959      82.6      58,895      24.5
|Tot a          207,447     100.0     25,625     100.0 |   7,215       100.0 |  240,287      100.0
Table li. Distribution of enrollment by socioeconomic status. SOFES Universities
Income Group    Number of students            %          Number of students          %
(before the project)  (before the project)  (after the project)  (after the project)
Low-income               42,943                20.7              58,895               24.5
Middle-income            128,201               61.8              144,320              60.1
High income              36,303                17.5              37,072                15.4
Total                   207,447                100.0             240,287              100.0
These numbers illustrate two interesting dirnensions. First, contrary to what could have been expected, the
private universities have managed to attract, through their scholarship system, a non negligeable proportion
of students from low-income groups. Second, the capacity of the loan scheme to significantly alter the
socio-economic distribution of the student population is limited. It is therefore important to be realistic
about the number of years needed to achieve notable changes.
During the summer of 1997, ICEES surveyed a stratified sample of 5,000 students representing about one-
tenth of all students in the State of Sonora, using a similar methodology and questionnaire as the ones
developed and applied by SOFES for the private universities. Table 11 presents the socio-economic
distribution of students at large compared to those who are recipients of an ICEES loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                     Page 53
Country: Mexico                                                      Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 11. Distribution of the Student Population
by Socioeconomic Status in the State of Sonora (present situation)
Socioeconomic          Students          %              Loan             %
Group                                            Beneficiaries
HighC'                         0               0.0             0              0.0
High B                         6               0.1             0              0.0
High A                         52              1.1             6              0.7
58             1.2              6              0.7
Medium C                      239              5.1             42             4.8
MediumB2                      454              9.6             71             8.1
Medium A                      552             11.7             98             11.8
1,245           26.4            211             24.0
Low C                         1,031           21.8            182             20.7
Low B                         1,244           26.3            232             26.4
Low A                         1,115           23.6            240             27.4
Marginal                       29              0.6             6              0.7
3,419           72.4            660             75.3
Total                         4,722           100.0           877             100.0
Table 12 presents the same data classified by type of higher education institution attended (public or
private).
Table 12 Socio-Economic Distribution by Type of Higher Education Institution
in the State of Sonora
Public Sector                 Private Sector
Socioeconomic Group                 Proportion of                 Proportion of
Enrollment       Loan         Enrollment       Loan
Beneficiaries                 Beneficiaries
Low-income               75.9           18.8           28.7            36.6
Middle-income            23.6           15.3           61.1            24.7
High Income               0.5            0.0           10.2            16.7
Total                    100.0          17.9           100.0          27.3
The results of the survey confirm that the Sonora Student Loan Institute is targeting loans to the neediest
students. The proportion of beneficiaries from the middle and low-income groups is slightly higher than the
share of these groups in the overall student population. The social importance of the student loan scheme is
even more visible when comparing the situation in the public and private universities. The proportion of
loan beneficiaries is significantly higher in the latter case, and it is twice as high for low-income students.
The detailed targeting strategy of both SOFES and ICEES is presented in Annex 2B.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                              Page 54
Country: Mexico                                                                                                                                   Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Annex A
Table 1. Cash Flow of the SOFES Student Loan Scheme
CASH FLOWS (cenario 1)
(thousands of peaos, constant)
Interest rate Banobras: UDIS +4
Interest rie to studnts: UDIS+2
Default rate: 5%
1998    1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007    2008           2009    2010    2011    2012   2013
Inihta balance                      0.0  25,071.0  39,940.0  72,065.0 129,590.0 213,553.0 288,513.0 379,828.0 443,562.0 474,936.0 475,489.0 451,083.0 398,529.0 319,514.0 214,152.0 96,346.0
1iows
Repayments                          0.0  3,457.0  13,315.0  31,293.0  54,181.0 164,792.0 239,235.0 209,432.0 174,809.0 141,659.0 114,350.0  83,805.0  54,913.0  26,085.0  11,121.0  1,383.0
World Bank Loan                 56,894.0 147,666.0 237,284.0 327,732.0 413,188.0  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
World Bank Loanfor investment   21,524.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0
GuaranteeFund                    5,738.0  17,715.0  33,902.0  54,126.0  77,684.0  50,079.0  39,039.0  29,247.0  20,989.0  14,237.0  8,718.0  4,634.0  1,925.0    631.0    71.0    0.0
Diffeential (2%) and investment   976.0  3,360.0  7,508.0  13,463.0  21,165.0  23,584.0  21,276.0  18,867.0  16,459.0  14,050.0  11,641.0  9,233.0  6,824.0  4,416.0  2,007.0   100.0
costs
Endowment from donations (SWAP)  54,736.0 115,609.0 181,133.0 199,114.0 215,530.0 204,059.0 194,251.0 186,301.0 180,313.0 176,396.0 174,668.0 175,252.0 178,277.0 183,880.0 192,207.0 202,909.
0
Others                          30,716.0  16,106.0  23,739.0  31,418.0  38,812.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0  2,500.0
Total Inflows                 115,848. 188,304. 315,748. 458,032. 605,030. 240,955. 302,050. 260,046. 214,757. 172,446. 137,209. 100,172.  66,162.0 33,632.0  15,699.0 3,983.0
0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Outlays
Studentloans                    56,894.0 147,666.0 237,284.0 327,732.0 413,188.0  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
SOFES opertion costs             7,529.0  8,791.0  8,921.0  8,968.0  9,027.0  9,078.0  9,160.0  9,242.0  9,298.0  9,303.0  9,299.0  9,264.0  9,206.0  9,115.0  8,994.0  8,896.0
Costofdefaults                   2,878.0  10,258.0  21,862.0  37,420.0  56,253.0  49,535.0  38,595.0  28,907.0  20,740.0  14,061.0  8,605.0  4,568.0  1,894.0    619.0    69.0  0.0
Investments                     21,524.0     0.0    I 0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Repaymwnt of WB debt             1,162.0  5,859.0  14,155.0  26,065.0  41,469.0 105,463.0 160,067.0 155,336.0 150,605.0 145,874.0 141,143.0 136,412.0 131,681.0 126,950.0 122,219.0 59,335.0
RcqnientofWB debtfor              789.0    861.0   861.0    861.0    861.0  1,919.0  2,913.0  2,827.0  2,741.0  2,655.0  2,569.0  2,482.0  2,396.0  2,310.0  2,224.0   1080
investment
Total outlays                  90,776.0 173,435. 283,083. 401,046. 520,798. 165,995. 210,735. 196,312. 183,384. 171,893. 161,616. 152,726. 145,177. 138,994. 133,506. 69,311.
0       0        0        0         0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0
Balance                        25,072.0 39,940.0 72,605.0 129,051. 213,822. 288,513. 379,828. 443,562. 474,935. 475,489. 451,082. 39S,529. 319,514. 214,152.  96,345.0 31,018.
0       0         0        0       0        0        0        0        0         0        0               0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                                   Page 5t5
Cojey: Mexico                                                                                                                                          Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 2. Cash Flow of the ICEES Student Loan Scheme
ICE15S (State of Sonora)
CASH FW4WS (scenario 1)
(housnda oorpe  1996)
Reaistic Senario
UDIS+2
Benefidaries growth rates
Carters Incobrable 12%
1997     1998      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003     2004      2005      2006      2007      2008     2009      2010      2011
Inititalbalace          16,617.0  26,964.0  60,104.0  90,437.0  122.752.0  144,444.0  169,247.0  135,039.0  84,009.0  41,480.0   4,194.0  -30,651.0  -62,177.0  -93,100.0 -124,090.0
Inflows
Stscgovcnment           18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  1I,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0  18,096.0
Loan recwvesyl          20,669.0  26,252.0  28,012.0  27,298.0  21,412.0  26,937.0  38,732.0  45,632.0  56,039.0  63,132.0  67,630.0  73,091.0  75,733.0  77,709.0  79,385.0
Loan Bank of Mexico       629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0    629.0
Equityfunds             5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0   5,507.0
Administron finds and    1,283.0   1,423.0   1,563.0   1,703.0   1,843.0   1,983.0   2,087.0   2,191.0   2,294.0   2,398.0   2,398.0   2,398.0   2,398.0   2,398.0   2,398.0
donations
World Bak loans             0.0  40,000.0  40,000.0  48,000.0  52,000.0  60,000.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Othes                   5,618.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0   3,583.0
Total inflows          51,8020  95,490.0  97390.0 104,8)6.0 103,070.0 116,735.0  68,634.0  75,638&0  86,14&0  93,345.0  9Z843.0 103,304.0 105.946.0 107,922.0 109,598.0
Available              68,419.0 122,454.0 157,494.0 195,253M0 225,822.0 261,179.0 237,881.0 210,6770 170,1570 134,825.0 102,0370  72,653.0  43,769.0  14,822.0 -14,492.0
Student loan           33,644.0  45,825.0  52,013.0  59,036.0  67,008.0  76,056.0  86,327.0  88,053.0  89,814.0  91,611.0  93,443.0  95,312.0  97,218.0  99,162.0  101,146.0
Others                  6,900.0   9,001.0   9,138.0   9,110.0   8,816.0   9,053.0  10,078.0  10,423.0  10,943.0  11,29S.0  11,523.0  11,796.0  11,928.0  12,026.0  12,110.0
Invetments                530.0   6,310.0   3,776.0   1,210.0   1,293.0   1,384.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0   1,006.0
Debt                      382.0   1,216.0   2,132.0   3,145.0   4,263.0   5,439.0   5,433.0  27,186.0  26,915.0  26,718.0  26,718.0  26,718.0  26,718.0  26,718.0  26,718.0
Total oudays           41,456.0  62,352.0  67,059.0  72,501.0  81,380.0  91,932.0 102,844.0 126,668.0 128,678.0 130,633.0 132,690.0 134,832.0 136,870.0 138,912.0 140,980.
Balance                26,963.0  60,102.0  90,435.0 122,752.0 144,442.0 169,247.0 135,037.0  84,009.0  41,479.0   4,192.0 -30,653.0  -62,179.0 -93,101.0    --155,472.0
124,090.0



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                 Page 56
Country: Mexico                                                                                                Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
.....  .   .r.            - Y                        1 nal Pe r-   -(Fis   Year    .
CY98  CY99CYOO  CYGICYOZ  CYO3TOTAL  FY99   F0          Y1 F0          Y3 F0    OA
l.g..W..>C-.M --.9.>0  -c- M -.........- ...    y
Proiect costs (US$M. incl.
contingencies)
Investment Costs           9.5   28.1  45.7   62.8   80.3   44.5  270.9   23.6   36.9   54.3   71.6   62.4   22.3  270.9
Recurrent Costs            1.7    3.4   3.5    3.4    3.4    1.7   17.1    3.4    3.5    3.4    3.4    2.6    0.9   17.1
Total  11.2   31.5  49.2   66.2   83.6   46.3  287.9   26.9   40.3   57.7   74.9   64.9   23.1  287.9
Financina Sources (% of
total Droiect costs)
IBRD                      57%    59%   62%    63%    64%    64%    63%    59%    61%    62%    64%    64%    64%    63%
Govt of Mexico (Federal)   1%     1%    1%      1%      1%     1%      1%     1%      1%     1%      1%      1%     1%      1%
ICEES*                     1 %    1 %    1 %    0%      0%     0%     1 %     1 %     1 %    0%      0%     0%      0%      1 %
SOFES                     15%    12%    8%      6%      5%     5%     7%    13%       9%     7%      6%      5%     5%      7%
Student Contributions     26%    27%   28%    29%    29%    29%    29%    26%    28%    29%    29%    29%    29%    29%
Total 100%   100%  100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
$ With support from the State of Sonora.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                page 57
Country: Mexico                                                  Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Goods:  Computer hardware, software, peripherals and other office equipment costing less than
US$150,000 per contract will be procured through national shopping up to an aggregate amount not
exceeding US$500,000. Packages costing from US$150,000 to US$350,000 will be procured through
NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$700,000. Packages costing over US$350,000 will be
procured through ICB procedures to an aggregate amount US$600,000.
Consultant Services: Consultant services in the areas of management, accounting, finance, law,
evaluation and information systems would be required by ICEES and SOFES. ICEES would require such
services to carry out annual audits and develop studies and analyses to: (a) improve the treatment of loans
in severe arrears, (b) develop and implement a plan for improving the institution's capacity to expand and
strengthen their operations (e.g., improvement of financial administration policies, the integration of the
accounting and loan collection processes, and creation of professional development plans), and (c)
determine baseline, mid-term and end-of-project values of certain performance indicators that require
specialized surveys or analyses.  SOFES would also require consultant services to carry out, among
others,: (a) annual financial audits, (b) internal audits of SOFES university-based satellite offices
(ventanillas), (c) portfolio risk evaluations, (d) legal audits of SOFES operations, (e) the development of
specialized software, and (f) studies and analyses related to project monitoring and evaluation. Quality-
and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures would be used for selecting consulting firms, up to an
aggregate amount of US$1,300,000 (approximately US$900,000 for SOFES and US$400,000 for ICEES).
Individual consultants would be selected and contracted up to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 in
accordance to Section V of the January 1997 Consultants Guidelines.
Review Procedures:
Goods: Prior review would be required for: (a) all documentation for all ICB procedures, and (b) the first
Shopping and NCB contract of each year. All other documentation will be reviewed during supervision
missions.
Consultant Services: Prior review would be required for: (a) all documentation for consultant contracts
with firms costing over US$100,000 per contract and with individuals over US$50,000, and (b) short lists
(where pertinent) and terms of reference and for all consultant services regardless of the amount of the
contract.



Project Appa sal Document                                                                                                                                   Pap 58
Country: Mdc@                                                                                                                Project Title: Higher Education Financng Proiect
Table 6.A: Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive   CompetKive         National                      Consulting
Bidding        Bidding        Shopping         Other1         Services         N.B.F.          Total
Sub-loans                                     -              -               -          176.9               -               -           176.9
(176.9)                                        (176.9)
Goods                                       0.6            0.7             0.5               -              -               -             1.8
(0.5)          (0.4)           (0.3)                                                          (1.2)
Technical Assistance                                         -               -               -            1.52              -             1.5
(1.5)                          (1.5)
Training3                                                    -               -             0.6              -               -             0.6
(0.6)                                          (0.6)
Other Educational Costs,                      -              -               -               -              -           107.1           107.1
Reserve Fund, Recurrent Costs                                                                                           (0-0)
Total            0.6             0.7             0.5          177.5             1.5           107.1           287.9
(0.5)          (0.4)           (0.3)        (177.5)           (1.5)           (0.0)         (180.2)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD; totals may not add up due to rounding.
'Not subject to procurement.
2Consulting services in the area of management, finance, evaluation and information systems would be provided, as well as for the execution of annual audits. The method of
selection to be followed would be: (I) Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) up to US$1,300,000 for most management, financial and information system consulting
services; (ii) Individual Consultants up to aggregate amount of US$200,000.
3Training expenditures may include didactic materials, classroom use charges, instructor fees, tuition and travel and per diem expenses of trainees.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                      Page 59
Country: Mexico                                                                                        Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table 6. B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Goods                         <US$150,000 up to an aggregate    National Shopping              First contract (per year)
amount of US$500,000 equivalent
>US$150,000, but <US$350,000 up  NCB*                           First contract (per year)
to an aggregate amount of
US$700,000 equivalent
>US$350,000 up to an aggregate    ICB*                          All
amount of US$600,000 equivalent
Technical Assistance
Contracts with Individuals >US$50,000, up to an aggregate of  Individual Consultants as per  All
US$200,000                      Section V, Consultant Guidelines
1997**
Contracts with Firms > US$100,000 per contract, up to    QCBS (firms)**             All
an aggregate amount of
US$1,300,000
* Bank Guidelines of August 1996 (Revised) & National Standard Bidding Documents.
** Bank Guidelines for Consultants (January 1997)



ProjeA Appraisal Documrent                                                                                                                      Page 60
Country Mox                                                                                                         Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Sub-Loans               | 132.9    |100%                     |Sub-Loans                 26.5    |100%l
Goods                        0.9          100% of foreign      Goods                     0.3          100% of foreign
expenditures, of local                                     expenditures, of local
expenditures (ex-factory                                   expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local                                     cost) and 85% of local
expenditures for other                                     expenditures for other
items procured locally                                     items procured locally
Technical Assistance         1.0               100%            Technical Assistance      0.5               100%
Training                     0.4               100%            Training                  0.2               100%          l
Unallocated                  15.0                              Unallocated               2.5
Sub-total    150.2    |                                   Sub-total     30.0     |              _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 61
Country: Mexico                                                          Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
A. Project Budget (US$157,700)                   Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$157,700                $
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       10 months            13 months
First Bank mission (identification)              01/10/97            01/10/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/97             11/17/1997
Negotiations                                     12/01/97              4/15/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    01/01/98            August 1998
Prepared by: ICEES and FIMPES, with guidance and supervision from SHCP and SEP.
Preparation assistance: Bank administrative budget and additional funds from FIMPES, SOFES
and ICEES.
Bank team who worked on the project included:
Jamil Salmi, Carmen Hamann, Cesar Fort, Linda Larach, Alfonso Oporto, Patrick Noonan, Maria-
Lourdes Noel, Vinh Nguyen, Patricia Romero-Casco, Liliana Wiesner, Gisella Diaz, Gabrielena
Alcala
Peer Reviewers: Harry Patrinos, William Saint, Peter Moock



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                                                       Page 62
Country: Mexico                                                                                                                             Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 8: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
Mexico
Statement of Loans and Credits
Schedule D (MOP) as of March 31, 1998
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                     and actual
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID      Credit      Year                 Borrower                         Purpose
No.                                                                                   IBRD         IDA      Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 203
Active Loans
MX-PE-7711      IBRD42760    1998   NAFIN                                 RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA               47.00        0.00             0.00          47.00         3.51       0.00
MX-PE-43163    IBRD42060    1997    BANOBRAS                              FEDERAL ROADS MODZTN              475.00        0.00             0.00         475.00         0.00       0.00
MX-PE-7700      IBRD41370    1997    GOVT OF MEXICO                       COMMUNITY FORESTRY                 15.00        0.00             0.00          14.50         1.75       0.00
MX-PE-7726      IBRD41520    1997    GOVERNMENT                           AQUACULTURE                        40.00        0.00             0.00          40-00         2.33       0.00
MX-PE-7732      IBRD41010    1997    GOVERNMENT                           RURAL FIN. MKTS T.A.               30.00        0.00             0.00          29.50        14.96       0.00
MX-PE-40685   IBRD39370    1996   NACIONAL FINANCIERA                     INFRA. PRIVATZTN TA                30.00        0.00             0.00          20.53        18.53       0.00
NX-PE-7689      IBRD39430    1996   NAFIN                                 BASIC HLTH II                     310.00        0.00             0.00         245.03       28.02       21.S3
MX-PE-7713      IBRD40500    1996   GOM                                   WATER RESOURCES MANA              186.50        0.00             0.00         178.38         7.60       0.00
MX-PE-34161    IBRD3838A    1995   NAFINSA                                FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                  5.32        0.00             0.00           2.97         1.58      12.38
MX-PE-34161   IBRD3838B    1995   NAFINSA                                 FINANCIAL SEC T.A.                 13.80        0.00             0.00          13.80         1.58      12.39
MX-PE-34490    IBRD38O5A    1995    NAFIN                                 TECH EDU/TRAING                   187.49        0.00             0.00         179.95      121.47       60.27
MX-PE-40462    IBRD39120    1995   NAFIN                                  ESSENTIAL SOCIAL SER              500.00        0.00             0.00          18.29        18.30      18.30
MX-PE-7607      IBRD3778A    1995    GOVERNMENT                           RAINFED AREAS DEVELO               41.96        0.00             0.00          21.85         3.82      -9.45
NX-PE-7702      IBRD3790A    1995    SEDESOL                              SECOND DECENTRALZTN               303.39        0.00             0.00         233.49      129.54       46.11
MX-PE-7612      IBRD37520    1994    BANOBRAS                             SOLID WASTE II                    200.00        0.00           193.06           1.71       -4.23        0.00
MX-PE-7701      IBRD3704A    1994    NAFIN                                ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI              119.36        0.00             0.00         111.10        86.08       1.09
NX-PE-7707      IBRD37510    1994    BANOBRAS                             WATER/SANIT II                    350.00        0.00             0.00         181.56      166.54        0.00
NX-PE-7710      IBRD37500    1994    BANOBRAS                             N. BORDER I ENVIRONM              368.00        0.00           273.40          65.36      259.06       22.38
MX-PE-7725      IBRD3722A    1994    NAFIN                                PRIM.EDUC.II                      254.36        0.00             0.00         214.81       184.83       6.15
MX-PE-7648      IBRD35590    1993    BANOBRAS                             MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP              200.00        0.00            23.00         137.78      122.71        0.00
MX-PE-7694      IBRD3543A    1993   NAFIN                                 TRNSPRT AIR POLL CON               79.96        0.00             0.00          79.96      123.08       35.00
MX-PE-7723      IBRD36280    1993    BANOBRAS                             HWY RHB & SAFETY                  480.00        0.00             0.00         200.67         8.67       0.00
MX-PE-7724      IBRD3542A    1993   NAFIN                                 LABOR MARKET & PROD.               11.25        0.00             0.00           3.93         3.94       0.00
MX-PE-7667      IBRD3419A    1992    NAFINSA                              IRRIG SCTR                        100.63        0.00             0.00         100.63      150.60         .60
MX-PE-7676      IBRD3475A    1992   NAFIN                                 SCIENCE/TECH                        6.50        0.00             0.00           3.36         2.36       2.36
MX-PE-7672      IBRD3359A    1991   NAFIN                                 MINING SCTR                        41.51        0.00             0.00          41.05        41.06       0.00
NX-PE-7704      IBRD3358A    1991   NAFIN                                 VOC TRNG SCTR                      18.99        0.00             0.00          17.01        32.03      17.03
MX-PE-7615      IBRD28240    1987    BANOBRAS                             URBN TRNSPRT I                    125.00        0.00            34.02           2.04        41.01       1.99
Total                                                                                                    4,541.02         0.00           523.48      2,681.26    1,570.73       248.42
Active Loans          Closed Loans             Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 1,336.33            21,008.59            22,344.92
of which has been repaid:                    60.24            10,947.64            10,907.88
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 3,957.47            10,185.05            14,142.52
Amount sold                      :                   0.00                92.34                92.34
Of which repaid               :                   0.00                92.34                92.34
Total Undisbursed                :              2,681.26                 27.26            2,708.52
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                      Page 63
Country: Mexico                                                                    Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Mexico
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Jan-98 (In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                          Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval               Company           Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1984/87/94/96           Metalsa                    0.00     0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     6.00     0.00
1987                    VULICA                     7.50     0.00     0.00    0.00     7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00
1987/91                 CALICA                     4.79     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.79     0.00     0.00     0.00
1988/91/92/93/95        Apasco                    22.20     0.00     0.00   102.80    22.20    0.00     0.00   102.80
1988/94/95              Sigma                      0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00
1989                    Cemex                      1.86     0.00     0.00     1.00    1.86     0.00     0.00     1.00
1989                    Grupo FEMSA                0.00     9.43     0.00    0.00     0.00     9.43     0.00     0.00
1989/90                 Banca Serfin              16.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    16.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1990                    Petrocel                   6.50     0.00     3.00    3.50     6.50     0.00     3.00     3.50
1990/91                 Condumex                   7.76     0.00     0.00    3.18     7.76     0.00     0.00     3.18
1990/92/96              BANAMEX                   62.61     0.00     0.00    98.07    60.21    0.00     0.00    98.07
1991                    CEDETEL                    3.13     .77      0.00    6.09      .63      .77     0.00     6.09
1991                    Vitro Flotado             13.22     0.00     0.00    5.53    13.22     0.00     0.00     5.53
1991/96                 GIBSA                     27.05     0.00    10.00    90.95    27.05    0.00    10.00    90.95
1992                    Banorte-Arancia            4.17     0.00     0.00    0.00     4.17     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992                    Banorte-SABROZA            3.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992                    Toluca Toll Road           8.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     8.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1992/91                 Vitro                      0.00    10.17    0.00     0.00     0.00    10.17     0.00     0.00
1992/93/95/96           Grupo Posadas             25.66     5.00     5.00    46.57    25.66    5.00     5.00    46.57
1992/96/97/98           GrupoProbursa              0.00    10.16     .21     0.00     0.00    10.11     .21      0.00
1993                    Derivados                  7.70     0.00     0.00    15.05    7.70     0.00     0.00    15.05
1993                    GIDESA                    12.50     8.00     0.00    25.50    12.50    8.00     0.00    25.50
1993                    GOTM                       1.40     0.00     0.00     1.32    1.40     0.00     0.00     1.32
1993                    Masterpak                  8.40     0.00     0.00    16.20    8.40     0.00     0.00    16.20
1994                    CTAPV                      4.67     0.00     2.53    0.00     4.67     0.00     2.53     0.00
1994                    Interceramic              13.00     0.00     6.00    12.25    13.00    0.00     6.00    12.25
1994/96/98              Aurum-Heller               0.00     2.80     0.00    0.00     0.00     2.80     0.00     0.00
1995                    Baring Venture             0.00     9.09     0.00    0.00     0.00     5.00     0.00     0.00
1995                    Mexplus Puertos            0.00     3.04     0.00    0.00     0.00     3.04     0.00     0.00
1995/96                 Baring Mex. FMC            0.00     .18      0.00    0.00     0.00      .17     0.00     0.00
1996                    GIRSA                     30.00     0.00    10.00   115.00    7.50     0.00     2.50    85.00
1996                    NEMAK                      0.00     0.00     6.00    0.00     0.00     0.00     6.00     0.00
1997                    Banco Bilbao MXC          80.00     0.00    30.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    30.00     0.00
1997                    Comercializadora           6.00     0.00     0.00    7.50     0.00     0.00     0.00     0.00
1997                    Gen. Hipotecaria           0.00     1.43    0.00     0.00     0.00     1.43     0.00     0.00
1997                    Grupo Minsa               20.00    10.00     0.00    30.00    20.00    10.00    0.00    30.00
1997                    TMA                        5.10     0.00     0.00    10.40    5.10     0.00     0.00    10.40
1998                    Grupo Calidra             12.00     6.00     0.00    10.00    0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:                     414.22    81.07    78.74   600.91   288.82    76.92    71.24   553.41
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv   Ouasi   Partic
1997                    ALTAMIRA                  17.80     0.00     1.00    38.00
1997                    CHIAPAS FMC                0.00     .02      0.00    0.00
1997                    FONDO CHIAPAS              0.00     5.00     0.00    0.00
1998                    FORJA QUIMMCO             13.00     3.00     0.00    13.00
1998                    HIPOTECARIA EQ             0.00     1.20     0.00    0.00
1998                    MERIDA m                  30.00     0.00     0.00    90.00
1998                    ZN MEX FMC                 0.00     .05     0.00     0.00
1998                    ZN MXC EQTY FUND           0.00    20.00     0.00    0.00
Total Pending Conmiitment:            60.80    29.27     1.00   141.00



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 64
Country: Mexico                                                         Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 9: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
C                                         ,.   ,.  ,    . ...   ,  -,,,. , ... . , .. ,, X, , ,., . .. L,.,. .. I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ... .. ... ... ... ..
.....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... ......
GeneralfBackground Documents
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 1995-2002                                             12/94
Programa de Desarrollo Educativo 1995-2000                                        12/94
With regards to ICEES:    -____--.
Antecedentes                                                                      12/96
Proyecto ICEES, 1997-2006                                                         12/96
Plan de Ejecuci6n                                                                 4/98
Proyecciones Financieras                                                          2/98
Estimaci6n de la Demanda Potencial                                                8/97
Analisis Socioecon6mico de los Estudiantes de Nivel Licenciatura en el Estado de Sonora  11/97
Investigaci6n sobre Empleo-Ingreso de Tdcnicos y Profesionistas en el Estado de Sonora  11/96
Matriz de Evaluaci6n (borrador)                                                   4/98
Analisis de Riesgos del Proyecto Credito Educativo                                12/96
Cuademo Credito Educativo                                                         12/96
Manuales de Organizaci6n y Procedimientos                                         12/96
Paquete de informaci6n de Fondos en Administraci6n y Donativos                    12/96
With regards to SOFES:
Plan Ejecutivo de Implementaci6n (with pages corrected during negotiations)       4/98
Proyecciones Financieras (escenarios 36 y 36 A)                                   4/98
Manual de Credito                                                                 4/98
Reglas de Operaci6n del SCE-SOFES (Guias Operativas del SCE)                      4/98
Formatos de Solicitudes, Contratos y Titulos de Credito                           4/98
Estatutos Sociales de la SOFES autorizados por la SHCP                            3/98
Carpeta de calculo, evaluaci6n y reporte de indicadores de monitoreo a Banco Mundial  4/98
Borradores de Soporte Legal para la Estructura Institucional, los cuales se entregaron a  4/98
Banobras como la base para el componente SOFES en el Fideicomiso Publico y sus
respectivas Reglas de Operaci6n
Plan Maestro de Negocios                                                          4/98
Manual General de Politicas, Organizaci6n y Procedimientos                        3/98
Reglamento Intemo de la SOFES                                                     4/98
Estratificaci6n Socioeconomica de la Matricula de Seis Universidades Privadas     8/97
Disenlo Ejecutivo de Operaci6n SOFOL-FIMPES                                       4/97
Estudio de Factibilidad Tecnica, Econ6mica y Financiera                           2/95



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                         Page 65
Country: Mexico                                                                                            Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
ANNEX 10: CoUNTRY AT A GLANCE
Mexico at a glance                                                               818f97
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America  middle-
Mexico   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         93.4       485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                             3,640     3,710    4,540                Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (billions USS)                               340.0     1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (1Yo)                                        1.9       1.7      1.5      GNP                              Gross
Labor force r/.)                                        2.8       2.3      1.8      per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since                                   capita                       enrollment
1989)
Poverty headcount    (% of population)
Urban population (%f6 of total population)              75         74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                33         37       35               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (/ of children under 5)
Access to safe water ('16 of population)                87         80       86
Illiteracy ('16 of population age                       10         13       13                M
Gross primary enrollment (/ of school-age              111        110      107                 exico
Male                                                                                        Upper-middle-income
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
Economic ratioe
GDP (billions US$)                           94.4    183.6      287.0    334.7
Gross domestic                               22.3      20.8      19.7     20.9             Openness of
Exports of goods and                          5.7      15.5      21.7     22.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    19.0     25.9      22.7     23.4
Gross national savingslGDP                   17.2      22.1      19.4     20.7
Current account                               -4.4      0.4      -0.6     -0.6
Interest                                      1.2       5.1       3.9      3.3      Savings                      Investment
Total debWGDP                                 19.3     52.8      57.8     47.0
Total debtservicelexports                     41.1     50.7      33.8     42.8
Present value of                                ..       ..      55.5
Present value of                               ..        ..    216.3                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                       Mexico
GDP                                  4.6      2.4      -6.2       51       4.9
GNP per capita                       1.7       0.3     -9.3       3.7      6.7                Upper-middle-income
Exports of goods and                11.7      6.1      33.3      16.6      7.7                group
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
('1tGDP)                                     1975     1985       1995     1996      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agrculture                                   10.8       8.7       5.7      5.9      40
Industry                                     29.9      33.5      27.9     28.8      20
Manufacturing                               21.9     23.5       20.8     21.5 5
Services                                     59.4      57.8      66.4     65.3              81   82   83   84       5    a9
-20\
Private                                      71.6      64.8      66.9     66.5    -40
General government                            9.3       9.3      10.4     10.1
Importsofgoodsand                             9.0      10.4      18.8     19.9                      GDI        GDP
1 975-85  1 986-96    1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (X]
Agriculture                                   3.1       0.6       1.0       1.2     40
Industry                                      4.7      2.9       -7.8     10.4      30
Manufacturing                                4.1      3.2       -4.8     10.9      2
Services                                      4.8       2.3      -6.2      3.4      10
Private                                       3.7      3.1       -9.5      2.3    -1        9t   92   93   94   9a s6
General government                             6.3      1.6      -1.3      3.7    -2
Gross domestic                                 1.7      4.9     -34.8     27.5    -30
Imports of goods and                          2.0      14.4     -26.8     27.8
Gross national product                         4.2      2.6      -7.7      5.7                    Export5      Imports
Note: Sectorat shares in the National Accounts are expressed are percentages of GDP at factor
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data ame missing, the
be incomplete.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                             Page 66
Country: Mexico                                                                                              Project Title: Higher Education Financing Project
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1995      1996
Domestcprices                                                                            inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                              40
Consumer prces (ave.)                           15.2      57.7       34.9      39.0     30
ImplictGDPdeflator                              15.5      56.5       37.9      31.5     2
Government finance                                                                      10
(% of GDP)                                                                               0
Current revenue                                           31.4       22.8      22.8             91    92    93    94    95    96
Current budget balance                                    -1.6        2.7       0.1                      GDP def.     CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..      -6.2       -0.1      -0.3
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                .   22,931      53,363   65,495      soox
Fuel                                                  14,767      8,423    11,654
n.a.                                                      6...90900
Manufactures                                           6,245     40,379   49,800
Total imports (cif)                                     14,533     46,274   58,964       40,000 
Food                                                   1,082      5,335    6,657
Fuel and energy                                           2.,~0,000
Capital goods                                          3,165      8,697    10922       a,ooo         ___ L    _  _  _  _ _  L
Export price index (1987=100)                              125        103      105              so  9r  92   93  94  99  96
Import price index (1987=100)                              99          81       79                      Exports    OnImports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                  127        128      133
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions USS)                                                                         | Current account balance to GDP ratlo (XA)
Exports of goods and services                  6,066   27,726      63,028   76,274       0 o
Imports of goodsand services                   8,466    19,915     55,275   69,195          90   91        92 93 S4  | 9 J
Resource balance                              -2,400     7,811      7.754    7,079       2                1
Net income                                     -1,783    -8,998    -13,290  -13,532
Net current transfers                             59     1,986      3,960    4,531      -4
Current account balance,
before official capital transfers            -4,124      800      -1,576    -1,922     61
Financing items (net)                          4,327    -3,223     11,167    3,696
Changes in net reserves                         -204     2,423     -9,591    -1,774     .9
Memo:.
Reserves including gold (mill US$)             1,893     4,997     16,847    19,433
Conversion rate (local/US$)                  1.3E-02       0.3        6 4       7.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985        1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Compositlon of total debt, 1996 (miil. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          18,231    96,867    165,743  157,384
IBRD                                         1,123     4,034     13,823    12,568              AG 1258
IDA                                              0         0          0        0368                               5380
Total debt service                             2,613    15,293     23,556   35,860                                       C
IBRD                                           116      597       2.372     2,372                                     13278
IDA                                              0         0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       -D
Official grants                                  8        78         31        ..                                   , 20341
Official creditors                             381      809      10,343    -8,192
Private creditors                            3,365     -831       5,586    11,639                                      E
Foreign direct investment                      609      491       9,526     7,619              F                     14688
Portfolio equity                                 0         0       519    2,995              61062
World Bank program
Commitments                                    310      928       2,142      187       A-IBRD                        E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                  188      840       1,732     1,051      B- IDA    D - DOther mutilateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                            39      335       1,411     1,409      C-IMF                         G- Short-term
Netflows                                       150      505        321      .359
Interest payments                               78      262         961      962
Net transfers                                   72      243       -641    -i 321
Development Economics                                                                                                       8/18/97



UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
CHIHUAHUA         *.~ 
<9                   ~~~~~~~Chihuahua                                    1
-v~~~   Y    >: ~~~COAHUILA                                                                                                      I
Monterrey   ~
saltilla   NUEVO
K.                       ~~~~DURANGO                         LEON
..  K      SINA OA           Durango  ZACATECAS                TAAL~A
SAN LUIS          Ciudad
N.                 PacateSa          Victoria)
RT  AGUASCALIENTES @ San Luis Potosi-
OTepic               Gou-juaotu -0                                                         YUAA
Guadalajara                            .                              Campeche;
\    JALISCO                  @~~~~~achuca                                               QIT~
Morelia                        JalapD                               .               ROAXC
MEXICO                         CoIin~~~~~~~~~~~~o ~MEXICO CITYEHE                                                           ,~ 
MICHOA CAN           MORELOS@Pel    EAIU
HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCING                                      ~~GUERRERO  PEL                               ~BC
LIII ICEES COMPONENT STATE                            ~~~~~~~~ChilpancingoO    AXC
axaca @                   @ Tuxtla Gutierrez
@    STATE CAPITALS            .       .   . 7   -~~~~~~~~~~~                             CHIAPASL
    NATIONAL CAPITAL                      .. .           .  .           .            >       *' ~~~GUATEMALA  .
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                      .                                 I ~~~~~~~~~~HONDURAS
z                                                                                                                                                                                   C"-     NENAINLBONAIS    0 
'a                                                                                                                                           '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



