Report No. PIC5094
Project Name                       Mexico-Higher Education Financing Project
Region                             Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                             Education
Project ID                         MXPE49895
Borrower                           Government of Mexico
Implementing Agencies              Sonora Student Loan Institute (ICEES)
(Instituto de Credito Educativo del
Estado de Sonora)
Address:         Olivares 128 Esq. Paseo de
la Paz, Col. Valle
Grande Apdo. Postal 1197,
C.P. 83205
Hermosillo, Sonora
icees@tiburon.rtn.uson.mx
Telephone:       52-62-604031/33
Fax:             52-62-604031
Society for the Promotion of Higher
Education (SOFES) (Sociedad para el Fomento
de la Educacion Superior)
Address:         Ave. San Jeronimo 550
Col. Jardines del Pedregal
C.P. 01900 Mexico, D.F.
Telephone:       52-5-681-2624 &
52-5-681-3673
Date This PID Prepared             April 25, 1997
Appraisal Date                     September 15, 1997
Projected Board Date               February 1, 1998
Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
1.      The main issues that the Mexican higher education system
faces are: (a) a low participation rate that is insufficient to
meet the country's growing needs a qualified graduates; (b) a
scarcity of budgetary resources to spur enrollment growth,
particularly after the 1994 financial crisis; (c) deficiencies in
the quality of services rendered by the institutions; (d) equity
problems, particularly in light of the limited expansion capacity
of public universities and the growing role of private
universities; and (e) a lack of responsiveness to the nation's
evolving economic needs.
2.      During the first five years of this decade, efforts in the
sector were focused on improving the quality and relevance of the
higher-education institutions. Evaluation tools and procedures were
designed and set up to assess the performance of higher education
institutions and to direct increases to ordinary financing.
Efficiency, quality and relevance criteria of academic programs,
research projects and services were used to guide the assessments.



Thus, indiscriminate subsidies were put to an end and improvements
in the efficient use of public resources and in the quality and
relevance of education were fostered.
3.      The Ministry of Higher Education is now focusing efforts on
increasing higher education participation levels. The Government's
long term goal is to achieve the needed increases in the tertiary
enrollment rate while improving equity of access. However, the
Government is aware that the planned expansion cannot be funded
exclusively with public resources. Increasing coverage can be
achieved only if public higher education institutions are able to
generate additional resources, through tuition fees and other
income-generation measures, and if private universities manage to
absorb a growing share of higher education enrollments (25 percent
at present). This expansion strategy requires therefore the
existence of appropriate and effective financial support mechanisms
to guarantee equal access opportunities to students from low and
medium income families. In this context, the Mexican Government is
very keen to promote the development and strengthening of student
loan schemes.
Project Objectives
4.      The general development objective of the project is to assist
the Government in promoting greater equity and quality in the
preparation of university graduates.
5.      Specific goals are to: (i) increase demand-side financing
sources to improve access to higher education, particularly for
academically qualified but financially needy students; and (ii)
develop more effective and financially sustainable student loan
institutions.
Project Description
The proposed project would consist of two components:
6.      A: Development of the Private Sector Student Loan Scheme:
This component would support FIMPES in establishing a private
student loan agency to provide financial support to students
seeking to enroll in private universities. The component would also
assist the Ministries of Finance and Higher Education in
establishing an efficient student loan monitoring and control
system. The estimated loan amount for this component is US$270
million.
7.      B: Strengthening of the State of Sonora Student Loan (ICEES)
Program: This component would support the State of Sonora in
increasing its coverage and reducing the overall level of subsidy
and making the Institute less dependent on State funding. The
estimated loan amount for this component is US$30 million.
Costs and Financing
8.      The estimated total project costs are US$612.6 million, of
-2 -



which 50t would be financed by the World Bank, and the remainder by
the Government of Mexico.
Implementation
9.      The Government of Mexico would take the primary
responsibility for the World Bank loan and lend-on to the
corresponding implementation agencies: (1) the Sonora Student Loan
Institute (ICEES) for the strengthening and expansion of its
present loan program and (2) the Society for the Promotion of
Higher Education (SOFES) for the establishment of the FIMPES
student loan scheme. To increase the likelihood of success, the
project would establish a comparable and coordinated Management
Information System to monitor and control the efficiency,
sustainability and appropriate targeting of the loan programs.
Benefits and Environmental Impact
10.     By increasing access to loans for academically qualified and
financially needy students, the project would have a positive
impact on the coverage, quality and equity of higher education. The
student loans contribute to increased equitable opportunities for
participation in higher education and ICEES managers and university
administrators have observed that students who take loans tend to
be more motivated and academically successful. ICEES has estimated
that its increased coverage could lead to an 11    reduction in the
annual undergraduate dropout rate. The FIMPES loans, according to
estimates from a market study prepared by Booz Allen & Hamilton of
Mexico, could potentially decrease dropout rates by approximately
20 percent. The same study also estimated that these loans alone
could lead to a 7t increase in the percentage of secondary students
pursuing university studies. Furthermore, the increased educational
purchasing power of students would allow them to place more
legitimate demands on the quality of education. In other words, the
demand-side financing supported by the project can also stimulate
improvements in the quality of public and private higher education
in Mexico by promoting competition. the project would not have any
adverse impact on the environment and would be classified as C.
Program Objective Categories
11.     This project consists of activities included in the
categories of Education and Public Sector Reform.
Project Risks
12.     The main project risks are associated with: (i) the terms and
conditions of student loans with the objective of achieving a
financially viable and equitable loan program; (ii) the
effectiveness of loan collection strategies, especially for the new
scheme (FIMPES); and (iii) the effectiveness of the beneficiary
targeting strategy - effective targeting.
Contact Point:          Jamil Salmi, Task Manager
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-3445
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending May 9, 1997.
- 4 -



