Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4332-ME
Loan Agreement
(Higher Education Financing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated September 14, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4332-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 14, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS  (A) United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.  For purposes of the application of the General Conditions, ICEES (as 
hereinafter defined) and SOFES (as hereinafter defined) are each considered to be a 
“Project implementing entity” as such term is used in, inter alia, Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Comité Técnico” means the technical committee which forms part of the 
Trust’s governing structure and administers the Trust;
(b)
“Eligible Student” means a student who meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement;
(c)
“FIMPES” means Federación de Instituciones Mexicanas Particulares de 
Educación Superior, A.C. (Federation of Mexican Private Universities), a civil 
association with its own legal personality, created by, and whose present membership 
consists of, various Mexican private universities;
(d)
“ICEES” means Instituto de Crédito Educativo del Estado de Sonora 
(Educational Credit Institute of the State of Sonora), an entity of the State of 
Sonora government with its own legal personality, created by Sonora Law No. 106 as 
published in the Sonora Boletín Oficial (Official Gazette) on June 10, 1985;
(e)
“ICEES Operational Manual” means the manual (entitled Plan de Ejecución), 
as amendable and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth ICEES’ rules and procedures 
for, inter alia, making Student Loans;
(f)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith, from the 
Guarantor to the Bank, containing the schedule, targets and indicators to be used in 
monitoring and evaluating implementation of the Project;
(g)
“Intermediary Agreements” means agreements, containing the provisions set 
forth in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement, one between the Trustee and SOFES 
(with regard to Part A of the Project) and another between the Trustee and ICEES (with 
regard to Part B of the Project), whereby the Trustee onlends Loan proceeds to SOFES 
and ICEES to allow them to carry out their Parts of the Project;
(h)
“Intermediary Loans” means the loans made by the Trustee, one to SOFES 
and another to ICEES, pursuant to Intermediary Agreements, which loans bear the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement;
(i)
“SOFES” means Sociedad de Fomento a la Educación Superior, S.A. de C.V. 
(Society for the Promotion of University Education), a Mexican corporation which 
serves as the student credit agency of FIMPES and is majority-owned and controlled by 
FIMPES members (which corporation shall operate as a sociedad financiera de objeto 
limitado upon compliance with the condition set forth in Section 6.01 (c) (i) of this 
Agreement);
(j)
“SOFES Operational Manual” means the set of manuals (entitled Reglas de 
Operación del Sistema de Crédito Educativo (SOFES) and Manual de Crédito), as 
amendable and satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth SOFES’ rules and procedures for, 
inter alia, making Student Loans;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(l)
“Student Loan” means a loan made by SOFES or ICEES to an Eligible 
Student, which loan bears the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(m)
“Trust” means the fideicomiso (trust) created pursuant to the Trust 
Agreement to, inter alia, serve as a vehicle for channeling Loan proceeds to SOFES and 
Page  3
ICEES in support of the implementation of the Project;
(n)
“Trust Agreement” means the agreement, entered into by, inter alia, the 
Guarantor as grantor and the Borrower as trustee, creating the Trust;
(o)
“Trustee” means Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C., in 
its role as trustee of the Trust; and
(p)
“UDI” means Unidad de Inversión (Investment Unit), an inflation-adjusted 
unit of account established pursuant to a Presidential decree of the Guarantor, 
published in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on 
April 1, 1995.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, an amount equal to one 
hundred eighty million, two hundred thousand Dollars ($180,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Student Loans and of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Banco de México on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 2004 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  (A) one 
half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month 
Page  4
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate 
and LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination 
thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the 
notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable February 15 and August 
15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds; Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for:  (a) the transfer to the Trust, on behalf of the Guarantor, of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such 
funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of principal, 
interest and other charges on the Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements.  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual 
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out, or caused 
to be carried out, by the Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.04 of the Guarantee 
Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, the 
Trust Agreement.  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend 
or fail to enforce any provision of the Trust Agreement.  The Borrower shall exercise 
its rights under the Trust Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, acting as Trustee:
(a)
shall not, except as the Bank may otherwise agree, amend any provision of 
an Intermediary Agreement;
(b)
shall comply with its obligations under Intermediary Agreements and shall 
exercise its rights in relation to each Intermediary Loan in such a manner as to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Trustee, comply with the Borrower’s 
obligations under this Agreement and achieve the purposes of the Project; and
(c)
shall cause all other parties to an Intermediary Agreement to comply with 
their obligations thereunder.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
furnish to the Bank, two months after the end of each trimester 
(beginning for the trimester commencing on the Effective Date), consolidated progress 
reports on Project implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which reports 
shall be based on the trimestral reports referred to in paragraphs 4 (a) (v) (B) and 4 
(b) (v) (B) of the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement; and
(b)
review with the Bank, the Guarantor, SOFES and ICEES, within three months 
after the end of each year (beginning for the year commencing on the Effective Date), 
the consolidated reports, referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such 
year’s trimesters and, as a consequence of such review, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient continuation of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the contents of said consolidated reports and the Bank’s views on 
the matter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its 
operations and financial condition, including records and separate accounts for the 
Project (such records and separate accounts to include, inter alia, records and 
separate accounts with respect to the operation of the Trust).
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with generally accepted 
auditing standards and procedures consistently 
applied, by 
independent and qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year:  (A) 
certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably 
requested; 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of the Special 
Account; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with Section 
4.01 of this 
Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of 
the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement and that 
the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as 
Page  6
to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Trust or for the 
suspension of the operations of the Trust; and
(b)
that the Trust’s internal operational rules and procedures referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) (ii) of the Guarantee Agreement: (i) shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
materially and adversely the ability of the Guarantor to cause the Project to be 
carried out in a manner consistent with the terms of the Guarantee Agreement; or (ii) 
shall not have been applied in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) or (b) of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement have been entered into;
(b)
that the Trust Agreement, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, has been entered into;
(c)
that either:
(i)
the Guarantor, through its Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito 
Público 
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit), 
has formally authorized SOFES to 
operate as a sociedad financiera de 
objeto limitado (limited purpose financial 
corporation), an 
Intermediary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
entered into 
with SOFES and the SOFES Operational Manual has been issued by 
SOFES 
and put into effect; or
(ii)
an Intermediary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
entered into 
with ICEES and the ICEES Operational Manual has been 
issued by ICEES and put 
into effect; and
(d)
that the Guarantor has provided to the Bank, or caused to be provided to 
the Bank, baseline data and targets, in form satisfactory to the Bank, for those 
indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter for which such data and targets are 
missing.
Section 6.02. (a) The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions 
(one from the Guarantor and a separate one from the Borrower) to be furnished to the 
Bank:
(i)
that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of 
this 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Page  7
Borrower and the 
Guarantor, have been duly executed by them, 
and are legally binding upon the 
Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance 
with their terms; and
(ii)
that the Trust Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, has been duly executed by them, and is 
legally binding upon 
the Borrower and the Guarantor in accordance 
with its terms.
(b)
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinions (one from 
ICEES and/or SOFES, as the case may be, and a separate one from the Trustee) to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that each Intermediary Agreement, entered into in 
satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, has 
been duly authorized or ratified by ICEES and/or SOFES, as the case may be, and the 
Trustee, has been duly executed by them, and is legally binding upon ICEES and/or 
SOFES, as the case may be, and the Trustee in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 14, 1998 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
 Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y
    Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100
Colonia Florida
01030 México, D.F.
México
Cable address: 
Telex:
BANTECARIO
BNOSME 01772619
Mexico City
Mexico City 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  8
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS
PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ José Luis Flores Hernández 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
   Dollars
  Financed
(1)
Student Loans
132,900,000
100%
under Part A.1
of the Project
(2)
Student Loans
 26,500,000
100%
under Part B.1
of the Project
(3)
Goods under
    900,000
100% of foreign 
Part A.2 of the
expenditures,
Project
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(4)
Goods under
    300,000
100% of foreign
Part B.2 of the
expenditures,
Project
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of
local expenditures
for other items
procured locally
(5)
Technical assistance
  1,400,000
100%
and training under
Part A.2 of the
Project
(6)
Technical assistance
    700,000
100%
and training under
Part B.2 of the
Project
Page  9
(7)
Unallocated
 17,500,000
___________
TOTAL
       180,200,000
===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country, other than that of the Guarantor, for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods and services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,000,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within the twelve 
months prior to the date of this Agreement but after July 15, 1997;
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (1), (3) 
and (5) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless all the conditions set 
forth in Sections 6.01 (c) (i) and 6.02 (b) of this Agreement have been satisfied as 
pertain to SOFES; and
(c)
in respect of payments made for expenditures under Categories (2), (4) 
and (6) in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless all the conditions set 
forth in Sections 6.01 (c) (ii) and 6.02 (b) of this Agreement have been satisfied as 
pertain to ICEES.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for any Student Loan of less than $150,000 equivalent, 
for expenditures under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent (in the case of 
consulting firms), for expenditures under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent (in the case of individual consultants or training instructors), for 
expenditures under contracts costing less than $350,000 equivalent (in the case of 
goods), for tuition expenditures costing less than $50,000 per student group in a 
single course and for training expenditures (other than tuition), all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Notwithstanding 
the foregoing, however, statements of expenditure shall not be used with respect to 
expenditures for items covered by the provisions of Schedule 5, Section I, Part E.2 of 
this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve access by academically 
qualified but financially needy students to quality university education in Mexico; 
and (b) improve the effectiveness and financial sustainability of student loan 
institutions in Mexico.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Private Sector Student Loan Scheme
1.
Provision of Student Loans through SOFES.
2.
Institutional strengthening of SOFES through provision of technical assistance 
and training to SOFES staff, provision of goods, establishment of student lending 
offices, establishment of a management information system and development of a student 
lending marketing and promotional strategy.
Page  10
Part B:
Sonora Public Sector Student Loan Scheme
1.
Provision of Student Loans through ICEES.
2.
Institutional strengthening of ICEES through development and implementation of a 
long-term ICEES institutional development plan supported by the provision of goods, 
technical assistance and training.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
    On each February 15 and August 15
          beginning February 15, 2004
          through August 15, 2013
 $9,010,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) 
and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $12,000,000 to be 
Page  11
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower,  withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  12
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:  (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract or per bid 
package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines, using standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  13
Part D:
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part E: 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract subject to Part B of this Section, as well 
as to the first contract, per calendar year, that is subject to Part C of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract, per calendar year, that is subject to 
Part D of this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of each of said contracts, the Borrower 
shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of each of said contracts, the Borrower 
shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not covered by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Specific Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
Services provided by individual consultants shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  The aggregate cost of all individual consultant services 
procured pursuant to this paragraph shall not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
Page  14
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
To award contracts below the thresholds set forth in paragraphs 2 (a) and 
(b) of this Part, prior review and approval by the Bank of short lists (where 
pertinent) and terms of reference shall be required.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraphs 2 (a) and (b) of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
