Page  1
August 31, 1999
Mr. José Luis Flores Hernández 
Director 
General Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
Tecoyotitla 100 
Colonia Florida 
01030, México, D.F.  
México
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director 
General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Insurgentes Sur 826, piso 9 
03100 México, D.F. 
México
Re:
Loan 4332-ME (Higher Education Financing Project) Amendment to the 
Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. 
(the Borrower), and to the Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States (the 
Guarantor) and the Bank, each dated September 14, 1998, with respect to the 
above-captioned Project.  We are pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend said 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements as follows:
I.
General
1.
The word “Trustee”, wherever it appears in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
(except as otherwise disposed of by the amendments contained in this letter), is 
hereby replaced with the word “Borrower”.
II.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
2.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended by deliberately leaving paragraphs (a), (m), (n) 
and (o) thereof blank.
3.
Section 3.01 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The 
Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, and, to this end, 
shall cause Part A of the Project to be carried out by SOFES, and Part B of the 
Project to be carried out by ICEES, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate educational, technical, financial and administrative 
standards and practices, as well as in accordance with the implementation schedule and 
targets set forth in the Implementation Letter.”
4.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  
(a)
“Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (i)
prepare or cause to be prepared, on the 
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish or cause to be furnished to 
the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and (ii)
afford the 
Bank, or cause the Bank to be afforded, a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.”
(c)
The Borrower shall maintain the repayment guarantee fund referred to in 
Page  2
paragraph 4 (a) (ix) of the Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement:  (i) as a separate 
account within the Borrower’s treasury, uncomingled with any other funds; and (ii) for 
as long as any SOFES Intermediary Loan disbursed principal remains outstanding.”
5.
Section 3.03 is hereby amended to read as follows in its entirety:  “The 
Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, contractual arrangements with 
the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for:  (a) the transfer 
to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the transfer by the Guarantor to 
the Borrower of such funds as the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on 
account of principal, interest and other charges on the Loan (to the extent proceeds 
equivalent to such funds have not been provided to the Borrower by SOFES or ICEES 
pursuant to the Intermediary Agreements).  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements.  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such contractual 
arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.”.
6.
Section 3.04 is hereby amended by replacing the words “, acting as Trustee” with 
the words “shall make Intermediary Loans, as agent for the Guarantor, in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the 
Schedule to the Guarantee Agreement, and”.
7.
Section 4.01 is hereby amended by deleting the words “(such records and separate 
accounts to include, inter alia, records and separate accounts with respect to the 
operation of the Trust)”.
8.
Sections 5.01 and 5.02 are hereby deliberately left blank.
9.
Section 6.01 (a) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Section 3.01” with 
the words “Section 3.03”.
10.
Section 6.01 (b) is hereby deliberately left blank.
11.
Section 6.02 (a) (i) is hereby amended by replacing the words “Section 3.01” 
with the words “Section 3.03”.
12.
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is hereby deliberately left blank.
III.
Amendments to the Guarantee Agreement
13.
Section 3.01, 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05 are hereby deliberately left blank.
14.
Section 3.02 is hereby amended by replacing the words “Section 3.01” with the 
words “Section 3.03”.
15.
Paragraph 3 (a) (i) of the Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the word 
“four” with the word “two”.
16.
Paragraph 3 (b) (i) of the Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the word 
“four” with the word “two”.
17.
Paragraph 4 (a) (ix) of the Schedule is hereby amended by replacing the word 
“Trust”, wherever it appears therein, with the word “Borrower”.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the spaces provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of the date first above written, upon 
receipt by the Bank of the one original of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  3
By /s/ Richard L. Clifford 
Acting Director 
Mexico Country Department 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y
UNITED MEXICAN STATES SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, 
S.N.C.
By /s/ José Luis Flores Hernández
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: September 3, 1999
Date: August 31, 1999
