CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1485 TH
Loan Agreement
(Pattani Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY
OF THAILAND
Dated September 23, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY OF THAILAND (herein-
after called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait
Fund) a further loan in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to about twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in the
financing of Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Agree-
ment) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Kuwait
Fund;
(C) The Borrower intends to contract from a commercial bank
or banks a further loan in an aggregate principal amount equiva-
lent to about twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) to assist in
the financing of Part A of the Project, on terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Commercial Bank
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and said
commercial bank or banks; and
(D) The Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) The terms "First Loan Agreement", "Second Loan Agree-
ment", "Third Loan Agreement" and "Fourth Loan Agreement" mean the
loan agreements dated September 12, 1957, March 7, 1963, March 22,
1965, and March 24, 1967, and designated as 175-TH, 333-TH, 406-TH
and 489-TH, respectively, between the Bank and the Yanhee Electri-
city Authority (established under the Yanhee Electricity Authority
Act, B.E. 2500 of the Kingdom of Thailand to which the Borrower
has succeeded pursuant to the Electricity Generating Authority
Act, B.E. 2511 of the Kingdom of Thailand); the terms "First EGAT
Power Loan Agreement", "South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Loan
Agreement" and "Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric Loan Agreement" mean
the loan agreements dated February 10, 1970, November 11, 1971,
and April 15, 1974, and designated as 655-TH, 790-TH and 977-TH,
respectively, between the Borrower and the Bank; and the term
"Prior Loan Agreements" means all such agreements;
(b) The term "Prior Guarantee Agreements" means the
guarantee agreements between the Guarantor and the Bank providing
inter alia for the guarantee by the Guarantor of the loans under
the Prior Loan Agreements;
(c) The   term  "PEA" means the Provincial Electricity
Authority, a body established by the Provincial Electricity
Authority Act, B.E. 2503 (1960) of the Guarantor;
(d) The term "MEA" means the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority, a body established by the Metropolitan Electricity
Authority Act, B.E. 2501 (1958) of the Guarantor; and
(e) The term "Baht" means the currency unit of the Kingdom
of Thailand.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Eank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight per cent (8.00%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the
design and supervision of construction of Part A of the Project,
the Borrower shAll employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) cause the tariff study included as Part C of the
Project to be carried out under terms of reference
which have been approved by the Bank; and
(ii) upon the recommendation of the Bank, in order to
assist in the carrying out of the said study,
employ consultants whose qualification, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's accredited
representatives to examine all plants, installations, sites,
works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, on request,
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are
carried out with due regard to ecological and environmental
factors and, in particular, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the recommendations of the draft Report dated October 12,
1976 of the Southeast Asia Technology Co. Ltd. (SEATEC), the
National Institute of Development Administration (NIDA) and
Mahidol University, entitled "Environmental and Ecological
Investigation of the Pattani Multipurpose Project".
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (i) promptly following its
completion, exchange views with the Bank regarding the findings
and recommendations of the tariff study included as Part C of the
Project; and (ii) take all necessary measures within its power to
implement or cause to be implemented, by October 1, 1978 or such
later date as may be agreed to by the Bank, such of the recom-
mendations of the said study as shall have been mutually agreed to
by the Guarantor and the Bank.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times carry out its
operations, manage its affairs and maintain its financial position
in accordance with appropriate engineering, business, financial
and public utility principles and practices, and under the super-
vision of experienced and competent management.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and properties, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, in accordance with
appropriate engineering and public utility practices.
Section 4.04. Without limiting the generality of Section
4.01, the Borrower shall under arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank cause the dam, waterways, and reservoir banks constructed
under Part A of the Project to be periodically inspected in
accordance with sound engineering practice in order to determine
whether there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in
the condition of such structures, or in the quality and adequacy
of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures which
may endanger the safety of such structures.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)


﻿-7-
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
*  reasonably request.
(b) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
mutually agree, in ordev :o assist the Borrower in the maintenance
of its accounts and in the audit thereof, the Borrower shall con-
tinue to employ qualified and experienced financial consultants.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower shall from time to time take all such
measures (including without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its electricity tariffs) as shall be
required to produce, for each of its fiscal years beginning on
October 1, 1977, funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 15% for fiscal years 1978 and 1979 and not less than 20%
for fiscal year 1980 and thereafter, of the Borrower's average
capital expenditures for electricity operations for three years


﻿-8-
comprising the test year, the next preceding year and (on the
basis of estimates acceptable to the Bank) the next following
year.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) The sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to electricity operations, cash
consumer contributions in aid of construction,
net non-operating income, and any other cash
inflows other than funds for financing capital
expenditures- and
(B) The sum of all expenses of operation, includ-
ing maintenance and administration (excluding
depreciation and other non-cash operating
charges), interest and other charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends
and other cash distributions of surplus, and
any other cash outflows other than capital
expenditures related to electricity opera-
tions; and
(ii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets, including interest charged to construction.
(c) Before April 30 in each of its fiscal years the Borrower
shall, on the basis of realistic forecasts acceptable to the Bank,
review the adequacy of its tariffs to meet the requirements set
forth in the preceding paragraph (a) for the current and the next
nine following fiscal years, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy
of such review upon its completion.
(d) Without limitation or restriction upon the generality
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall at all times maintain in
its tariff schedule a provision for fuel adjustment to increase
or decrease the energy charges to its consumers to compensate
for changes in the cost of fuel.


﻿-9-
Section 5.05. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 5.06 of this Agreement, except as the Bank
and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt if, after the incurring of such
debt, the debt of the Borrower then incurred and outstanding would
be greater than 1.5 times the capital and surplus of the Borrower.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "incurring of debt" includes the assumption and
guarantee of debt and any renewal, extension or modification of
the terms of the debt or of the assumption or guarantee thereof;
(b) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower; -
(c) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
such debt becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with
the loan contract, agreement or other instrument providing for
such debt, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
agreement providing for such guarantee is entered into, but only
to the extent that the underlying guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(d) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Baht debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt, or if such currency is not obtainable, at the
rate of exchange reasonably determined by the Bank; and
(e) "capital and surplus of the Borrower" means the aggre-
gate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower.
Section 5.06. (a) Without limitation or restriction upon
the provisions of Section 5.05 of this Agreement, except as the
Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur short or medium term debt, including
overdraft arrangements and bonds, if by such incurrence the
Borrower's total outstanding short and medium term debt would
exceed 15% of all debt of the Borrower, including its short and
medium term debt and the debt proposed to be incurred.
..(b) For the purposes of this Section:


﻿- 10 -
(i) "short and medium term debt" means debt maturing
by its terms within five years; and
(ii) the provisions of paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.05 shall apply.
Section 5.07. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall revalue its assets
annually on the basis of the fixed capital formation deflator
used for the Guarantor's annual accounts.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any part of the
loans referred to in Recitals B and C of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall simultaneously repay a proportionate amount of the
Loan then outstanding. All the provisions of the General Condi-
tions relating to repayment in advance of maturity shall be
applicable to any prepayment by the Borrower in accordance with
this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank;
Amendments to Prior Loan Agreements
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall have occurred in the performance of any
covenant or agreement (other than a covenant or agreement to pay
monies) on the part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under any of
the Prior Loan Agreements, any of the Prior Guarantee Agreements,
or the Bonds provided for therein;
(b) The Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand Act,
B.E. 2511 (1968) shall have been suspended, terminated or
repealed, or amended, so as to affect adversely the ability of the
Borrower or the Guarantor to carry out their respective obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement; and
(c) (i) The loan referred to in Recital B to this Agreement
shall have failed to become effective by April 1,
1978, or such other date as the Bank may establish;
provided, however, that this subparagraph (i) shall


﻿- 11 -
not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satis-
faction of the Bank that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(ii) Subject to subparagraph (iii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the loan or loans referred to in
Recitals B and C of this Agreement shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
Agreement or Agreements providing therefor, or
(B) Such loan or loans shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(iii) Subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Bank that: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the respective agreements pro-
viding for such loan or loans, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions con-
sistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. Foe the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (b) or (c)
(ii) B of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
Section 6.03. (a) Section 5.09 of the Second, Third and
Fourth Loan Agreements, respectively, Section 5.08 of the First
EGAT-Power Loan Agreement, Section 5.04 of the South Bangkok


﻿- 12 -
Thermal Unit No. 4 Loan Agreement, and Section 5.04 of the Ban
Chao Nen Hydroelectric Loan Agreement are amended to read as
provided in Section 5.04 of this Agreement.
(b) Section 5.10 of the Second Loan Agreement, Section
5.10 of the Third Loan Agreement, Section 5.11 of the Fourth Loan
Agreement, Section 5.09 of the First EGAT Power Loan Agreement,
Section 5.05 of the South Bangkok Thermal Unit No. 4 Loan Agree-
ment and Sections 5.05 and 5.06 of the Ban Chao Nen Hydroelectric
Loan Agreement are amended to read as provided in Sections 5.05
and 5.06 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely:
(a) that the tariff increases approved by the Guarantor as
per Cabinet Resolution adopted on June 29, 1977, and transmitted
by the Secretary-General of the Cabinet to the Minister of Finance
by letter No. SR 0202/8558 of June 30, 1977 shall have become
effective; and
(b)   that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of
the Commercial Bank Agreement, referred to in Recital (C) to this
Agreement, other than (if applicable) the effectiveness of this
Agreement, shall have been satisfied.
Section 7.02. The date December 22, 1977, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
Nonthaburi
Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
EGAT                               TH 2711
Nonthaburi
Thailand
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ELECTRICITY GENERATING AUTHORITY
OF THAILAND
By /s/ Arun Panupong
Authorized Representative


﻿-14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the         % of
Loan Allocated    Expenditures
(Expressed in         to be
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    Financed
(1) Civil Works                  20,000,000     42%
(2) Construction equipment        4,700,000
for resettlement and
sub-station equipment
(a) directly imported                      100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) imported but                            65%
locally procured
(c) locally manufactured                   100% (ex-factory
cost)
(3) Supply and erection           4,700,000     50%
of transmission lines
(4) Consultants' Services         2,900,000     100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Interest and other            9,600,000     Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
December 14, 1981
(6) Unallocated                   8,100,000
TOTAL   50,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's power development
program and consists of the following Parts:
A.   Pattani Hydro-electric Development
1.   Construction of a rock-fill dam about 85 meters high
with appurtenant structures and equipment, near Ban Lang on the
Pattani River, about 210 km upstream of the City of Pattani, in
the far south of Peninsular Thailand.
2.   Construction of a surface type power house located
below the dam and installation of three generating units of about
20 MW each, and a switchyard with three 27 MVA transformers.
3.   Erection of a 115 KV double circuit transmissiot, line
about 40 km long between the switch yard to be constructed under
Part A. 2 and the Yala substation.
4.   Preliminary works and resettlement of about 3,200
inhabitants of areas to be flooded by the Pattani reservoir,
including the purchase and utilization of construction equipment
required to carry out such works.
B.   Transmission System Expansion
A part of the Borrower's transmission system expansion
program for 1977-1981, comprising erection construction and
placing into service of about 400 km of transmission lines, and
associated substations and facilities.
C.   Tariff Study
A tariff study to determine the marginal costs of supplying
power to consumers at different voltages, to provide a basis for
the preparation of tariff schedules for the power sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1981.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1982
through   December 15, 1984                   100,000
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning June 15, 1985
through June 15, 1997                       1,980,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.20%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            4.40%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                       6.40%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                       7.20%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                            8.00%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurenent
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines) including the pertinent provisions of the General
Introduction thereto, on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Preliminary works for Part A of the Project and resettlement
may be carried out by force account or local contractors selected
in accordance with the Borrower's normal procurement procedures.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufactuers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for


﻿- 20 -
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A
bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of
the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid
shall be selected.
D*   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the


﻿- 21 -
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified of
the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and all contracts for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 22 -
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


