Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22129
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28670)
ONA
TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.9 MILLION (USS4.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
BWINDI IMPENETRABLE NATIONAL PARK AND MGAHINGA GORILLA
NATIONAL PARK CONSERVATION PROJECT
JUNE 28, 2001
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2001)
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
USh. 1 = US$ 0.0006
US$ 1 = USh. 1780
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BINP         Bwindi Impenetrable National Park
DGIS         Royal Netherlands Government
EMP          Ecological Monitoring Program
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GOU          Government of Uganda
ITFC        Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation
LCSC         Local Community Steering Committee
MAM          Mercury Asset Management
MBIFCT       Mgahinga Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
MGNP         Mgahinga Gorilla National Park
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NEAP         National Environment Action Plan
NGO          Non-Govermnent Organization
PAMSU        Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
TAC          Technical Advisory Committee
TAU          Trust Administration Unit
TMB          Trust Management Board
UWA          Uganda Wildlife Authority
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager:    Roger C. Sullivan
Team Leader:    Nathalie W. Johnson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 2
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   6
6. Sustainability                                                                       8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     10
9. Partner Comments                                                                    10
10. Additional Information                                                            12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   16
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   17
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  20
MAP
IBRD 25291R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002893                                       Project Name. Bwindi Forest & Mgahinga Gorilla
NP Cons
Team Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson                       TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Bwindi Forest & Mgahinga Gorilla NP Cons       L/C/TF Number: TF-28670
CountryIDepartment: UGANDA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/15/93                                 Effective: 07/12/95           07/12/95
Appraisal:  09/20/93                                  MTR: 05/18/98              05/18/98
Approval:  01/24/95                                 Closing:  12/31/99           12/31/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVT. OF UGANDA/TBD
Other Partners: USAID
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     James W. Adams                             Francis X. Colaco
Sector Manager:       Roger C. Sullivan                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:   Nathalie W. Johnson                       Agnes 1. Kiss
ICR Primary Author:   Nathalie W. Johnson; Karen
Richardson
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Project was
to establish a long-term conservation finance mechanism to support biodiversity conservation in the Bwindi
Impenetrable National Park (BINP) and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park (MGNP).



3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project established a trust fund, the Mgahinga Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
(MBIFCT), as a long-term financing mechanism for biodiversity conservation activities in BINP and
MGNP. The annual proceeds of the trust fund, interest eamed on the trust capital net of administration
costs, were allocated to three categories of activities: (i) community development activities (60%); (ii)
research activities (20%); (iii) incremental support to park management activities (20%).
The project's four main components were:
1. Institutional Structure and Function of the Trust - to establish a multi-tiered management
structure to support the implementation of the Trusts activities. The structure consists of a Trust
Management Board (TMB), a Trust Administration Unit (TAU), a Local Community. Steering
Committee (LCSC) and a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC).
2. Community Development Activities - to support community development activities, such as
alternative income-generating activities and social infrastructure projects for local communities
surrounding the parks, consistent with biodiversity conservation.
3. Research Activities - to support research activities to irnprove park management and
park/community interactions through research on ecological and socio-economic indicators,
ecosystem quality and forest resources.
4. Park Management Activities - to help meet the incremental costs of implementing management
plans for BINP and MGNP.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were reviewed at the Mid-Term Review. No revisions were recommended.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The performance rating for quality at entry was Highly Satisfactory (HS). The project design was based
on: (a) the establishment of the MBIFCT, Trust Deed, Trust Administration Manual and by-laws prior to
the completion of the project design, (b) collaborative and complementary activities with projects funded by
other donors and NGOs; (c) flexibility in the structure of the trust fund to either maintain the capital in
perpetuity or draw the capital down over several decades as a "sinking fund"; and (d) a multi-tiered
management structure, with a strong emphasis on local participation. The main risks associated with the
project were either outside the project's control or well anticipated. A QAG was not carned out at the time
of project preparation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of Objectives is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The project achieved its objectives and
surpassed initial expectations. The project was successful in establishing the MBIFCT which has
supported biodiversity conservation in Bwindi Irnpenetrable National Park and Mgahinga Gorilla National
Park. The project was instrumental in facilitating the long-term protection of the BINP and MGNP by
providing a sustainable funding source for: (i) community development projects in the three administrative
- 2 -



districts around the parks; (ii) core funding to the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) for management
activities within the parks; and (iii) funding for applied scientific research, ecological monitoring and
socio-economic studies to complement existing government, academic, NGO and privately funded research.
In addition, the MBIFCT was successful in attracting additional funds from USAID ($880,700) for the
period of 1995-1997 and the Netherlands Government (DGIS) ($2.7 million) for the period from
1997-2002.
The project was able to recruit and maintain suitably qualified staff and consultants for the Trust
Management Board (TMB), Trust Administration Unit (TAU), Local Community Steering Committee
(LCSC) and a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). Co-financing from USAID (1995-1997) and DGIS
(1997-2002) financed the establishment of the TAU and recurrent cost expenditures of the TAU.
Appropriate policies and procedures to comply with the MBIFCT Trust Deed and by-laws were put in
place from the outset and were documented in a Trust Administration Manual. Technical assistance was
sought from high quality consultants to assist in the implementation and operationalization of the trust
activities.
Since the MBIFCT was the first conservation trust fund of its kind in Africa, the steep learning curve
meant that the TMB and TAU sometimes lagged in their compliance with target dates, however this
improved as staff gained experience. A strategic planning process was undertaken following the Mid-Term
Review (MTR) of May 1998, and this helped clarify the role and responsibilities of each of the
management structures. By achieving its objectives, the project played a significant role in modifying the
global perspective of conservation trust funds.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The project's different components yielded the following outputs:
Management Structure
The institutional structure and function of the various bodies which make up the MBIFCT were developed
as part of the preparation for the project. The project provided the initial capital fund and was responsible
for the establishment of the management structure. The TMB, TAU, LCSC and TAC were all established
as scheduled. The Trust Management Board's legal and fiduciary responsibilities were set out in the Trust
Deed and by-laws. The membership of the trustees of the TMB was filled as required and all founding
members of the TMB had specific experience or interest in conservation. The initial term of two years for
each member was extended to three years after the MTR. Frequent meetings and good communication
with the Bank and other donors countered the possible problems arising from the high member turnover.
After the MTR, the TMB adopted a 5-year plan and began to address some of the recommendations made
by the MTR, including shortfalls in procedures, transfer of income to capital and strategic planning.
The TMB contracted an asset manager, Mercury Asset Management (MAM) to manage the capital
overseas on behalf of the MBIFCT. MAM reported quarterly to the MBIFCT trustees and reviewed and
refined its investment strategy based on the recommendations of the TMB. Due to the depreciation of the
Ugandan Shilling against the dollar and strong investment results, capital investment grew and MAM
outperformed initial benchmark figures, with an average nominal return for three years of 13.6%.
The Trust Administration Unit managed the daily activities of the MBIFCT. An internationally recruited
Trust Administrator was recruited for the first two years and was retained as an advisor in PY3. The TAU
was effective in providing support to the TMB and LCSC and seeking technical input from the TAC,
however it endured many staffing difficulties. Prior to the MTR, the TAU was understaffed and salaries
-3-



were below national averages. This was corrected after the MTR by an increase in wages, the addition of
another community programs officer, the retention of an advisor, more support staff and a renewed
willingness to work with collaborative partners (CARE/Development Through Conservation project and
International Gorilla Conservation Project) on common goals. A well qualified deputy trust administrator
was recruited before the MTR, and in PY3 assumed the role of trust administrator.
The Local Community Steering Committee had a diverse membership with members from the three
administrative districts adjoining the parks, as well as park wardens, representatives from collaborative
partners (CARE/DTC and IGCP) and ITFC. By project's end the representation of women and Batwa on
the LCSC had greatly improved, however, the attendance and participation of the Batwa remains a
challenge. Guidelines for the LCSC induction and training procedures for new members were developed
and adopted into practice. The division of power in approving community development grants between the
TMB (grants >$ 1,000) and LCSC (grant <$1,000) allowed for a decentralization of the decision-making
process and improved community input. The representation of the LCSC by its three voting members on
the TMB was effective and promoted good communication and liaison within the project.
The Technical Advisory Committee was established to review community development activities and
applied research activities. It was comprised of academics, lawyers, government officials and other experts
with a diverse range of expertise. It met biannually to review the research proposals within the research
and park management components and larger scale community development projects. The TAC provided
critical feedback on many activities.
The multi-tiered management structure was very effective in involving local stakeholders and representing
the views of the Government, NGOs and participating donors. Although the initial administrative costs of
the TAU were greater than expected, co-financing by USAID and DGIS for the initial five years for the
TAU helped establish a well functioning MBIFCT management structure with sound internal regulations
and rules.
Community Development Activities
This component aimed at providing small grants to community groups in the areas surrounding the parks
for income-generating projects to replace revenues lost when access to forest resources in the parks were
restricted and projects consistent with biodiversity conservation. The first round of grants in 1996 followed
the selection criteria defined in the Trust Administration Manual and was characterized by: (i) a
tremendous number of applications (4,700 applications for 50 grants); (ii) a focus on social infrastructure
(schools, clinics) rather than income generating activities or projects with a clear conservation goal; and
(iii) a lack of matching funds from the community. The MBIFCT responded by: (i) establishing clearer
selection criteria and preliminary screening of projects by the LCSC in collaboration with the TAU and
collaborative partners (CARE/DTC and ICGP); (ii) agreeing to fund some social welfare projects that
demonstrated value for the 'commnon good', while emphasizing that these projects could still integrate
conservation values (e.g. tree planting around all schools and clinics, wildlife clubs at schools, etc); and
(iii) modifying the matching contribution of groups to either in-kind contributions of labor or provision of
local materials. The first grant cycle (identification to completion) lasted 4 years (1996-2000) and resulted
in the completion of 43 of 50 grants. The MBIFCT decided to retain a phased granting cycle for future
grants, aiming to reduce the interval between rounds to 3 years. In addition, the MBIFCT took several
proactive steps to improve this component including: (i) delegating the approval of small grants to the
LCSC, the structure most closely linked with local communities; (ii) hiring a third conimunity programs
officer to assist with project identification and supervision; and (iii) hiring engineers to supervise the
construction of buildings.
-4 -



Although the organization and capacity of the communities was less developed than expected, community
groups put forth innovative and realistic projects that reflected the aspirations of the community. By
project end, it was agreed that a two-tiered approach of both social infrastructure projects and income
generating projects would be adopted in future rounds. This approach engaged the community and
provider greater transparency on how MBIFCT funds were used for community development. Through
interviews during supervision missions and attitude surveys done by other conservation NGOs in the area
there was good evidence to suggest that the community development activities had a positive impact on the
community members' attitude towards the conservation of the parks, although more work was needed to
raise public awareness and integrate conservation values.
Research Activities
This component aimed at complementing existing and on-going scientific research with studies to improve
knowledge on the sustainable use of biodiversity in the park, habitat quality, socio-economnic studies and
baseline monitoring and evaluation. Prior to the MTR, five small-scale research studies for students were
approved by the TMB. These studies were biologically focused and were designed by the Institute of
Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC). After the MTR and in collaboration with the DGIS support to
ITFC, research activities were fully integrated into the overall Ecological Monitoring Program (EMP) of
the ITFC, which focused on a broader range of disciplines. The E.MP utilized indigenous knowledge
through engaging local community members as research partners. In collaboration with CARE/DTC and
UWA, the EMP set up pilot multiple zone areas in the parks to increase the access of indigenous
communities to certain forest resources.
Park Management Activities
This component aimed at providing funds to the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) to help meet the
incremental costs of implementing management plans. It was anticipated that the project's contribution
would be for specific management needs such as improved boundary demarcation, expanded patrols, etc.
The 1996 financial and managerial crisis at the UWA, combined with the serious security problem in
Uganda and the region, have hindered the revenue generation at all the Protected Areas in Uganda, and
have limited funding for core recurrent cost items. Funding for basic equipment was sought from the
MBIFCT and it was agreed that until UWA was in a position to finance basic operating costs, the project
would meet the required cost. The crisis at UWA severely delayed the implementation of management
plans for the parks and strained existing park patrols and public awareness. At the MTR, a review of the
selection criteria and modalities for funding from the MBIFCT to the UWA was conducted and
recommendations were made.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The project resulted in an
innovative institutional arrangement for the management of the MBIFCT that was highly participatory in
nature. The project's main governing body, the Trust Management Board (TMB), was composed of
representatives from government, local communities, national and international NGOs, donors, and private
- 5 -



sector agencies. This allowed for wide stakeholder participation and cross-sectorial ownership of the
project. The TMB delegated daily responsibilities to the Trust Administration Unit (TAU), which in turn
sought local community input from the Local Community Steering Committee (LCSC) and technical
review from the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). The emphasis of the project on the synergy
between community development and biodiversity conservation required effective institutional
arrangements at the local level between communities and park management, which was achieved by the
LCSC, and at the oversight level, which was achieved by the diverse membership of the TMB. Both the
TAU and TAC, to a lesser degree, facilitated the roles of the LCSC and TMB by providing administrative
and technical support.
The Trust Management Board met 21 times and fulfi2led its role as the management board for the trust
during the project. The strict Trust Deed and by-laws of the MBIFCT ensure the TMB's role after project
completion and help protect the MBIFCT from political interference and financial mismanagement. The
TAU was responsible for monitoring the project's implementation, preparing terms of reference for
consultants, procuring goods, and attending to the daily management of the project. The scope of work of
the TAU was underestimated at project design. This was partially due to the expectation that some of the
collaborative partners (CARE/DTC and IGCP) would assist more with the identification, preparation and
implementation of micro-projects. The input of the collaborative partners fell short due to their own
capacity constraints. The MTR recommended that additional staff, including an additional community
program officer, be hired and the contract of the internationally recruited advisor be extended to meet the
demands of the TAU. Following the MTR, the TMB decided to hire a Program Manager instead of an
additional Community Project Officer. This was because members felt that a Program Manager could
assist with Management and or/ Administration as well as overseeing and standing in for a Community
Project Officer whenever the need arises. This was felt to be adequate especially given that a Batwa
Project Officer was also hired to deal with the specific Batwa component. These recommendations were
carried out and created capacity to manage the workload of the TAU. The Local Community Steering
Committee met regularly. The LCSC was the most mature of the project's institutional arrangements and
this was reflected in the LCSC's ability to: (i) modify its procedures when necessary, especially with
regards to the solicitation of new grant proposals; (ii) adopt a phased approach to providing new grants to
communities; and (iii) recruit new members with diverse expertise, including women and members of the
Batwa community. The Technical Advisory Committee met 6 times throughout the project. The diverse
technical expertise of the TAC was underused, as the majority of sub-projects funded by the project were
too small in size to warrant extensive technical review. Efforts to improve the input of the TAC suggested
during the MTR, including ad hoc subcommittees to review specific proposals, improved the impact of the
TAC.
Overall, the institutional arrangement was highly participatory in nature. The cross-sectoral composition
and balance between private and government parties ensures its sustainability after the closure of the
project and for the duration of the MBIFCT.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
There were seven main factors outside the Government's or implementing agencies control that affected
implementation and may influence the long-term outcome of the MBIFCT: (i) rate of return on capital
investment - initially the rate of return was higher than expected which allowed more income to be
re-invested, however the long-term average is dependent upon factors outside the control of the
GOU/MBIFCT; (ii) the inaccessibility of communities around the parks due to rugged terrain and poor
communication - this made the solicitation, disbursement, and supervision of grants more of a challenge;
- 6 -



(iii) performance of collaborative partners (CARE/DTC, IGCP) due to capacity constraints - this slowed
down the identification and implementation of income generating activities for communities; (iv) perpetual
lack of matching funds at the community level - the demand for which was drastically reduced after the
MTR; (v) political insecurities in the country - local insecurities may hamper tourism and donor
investment; (vi) poorly developed markets and capital infrastructure limited the project options with respect
to income generating projects; and (vii) the communities strong desire for projects to address community
benefits rather than providing resources for individuals limited the scope and types of activities in the
grants program. Some of these factors were identified at project design and the project was diligent in
trying to mitigate any negative impacts generated by these factors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
The Government established the MBIFCT in a timely manner on March 2, 1994, one year prior to the
signing of the grant agreement (March 7, 1995). The Government and Trustees established the TMB,
TAU, TAC and LCSC as prescribed by the Trust Deed and by-laws. The GOU actively participated on
the MBIFCT Board of Trustees and helped to attract other donors.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The factors affecting project implementation and outcome that were subject to implementing agency can be
divided into those factors related to the Trust Management Board and those related to the Trust
Administration Unit. The factors subject to the TMB's control were minor in nature and included: (i)
delays in implementing some of the Trust Deed procedures and by-laws such as performance appraisals,
financial projections and the annual audit; and (ii) delays in establishing and using sub-committees within
the TMB to divide the Board's responsibilities. Those factors subject to the TAU control included: (i) high
turnover in staff; (ii) initial delays in identifying, preparing and supervising community development
activities due to a shortfall of community programs officers, reme(died by the addition of a third officer
after the MTR; and (iii) lack of formal Memorandums of Understinding with collaborative partners
(CARE/DTC and ICGP), which hampered certain collaborative efforts due to misunderstandings.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The amount of the grant (SDR 2.9 million) to the MBIFCT was supplemented by the addition of $880,700
from USAID for the period of 1995-1997 and $2.7 million from the Netherlands Government (DGIS) for
the period of 1997-2002. The detailed costs and financing tables of the project are presented in Annex 2.
These costs and financing reflect only the GEF financing and do not include the financing of USAID and
DGIS. The financing does also not include gains in capital from the investments of the MBIFCT.
Disbursement of funds to community development projects was slow due to: (i) the overwhelming number
of project proposals received (4,700) in the initial round set at 50 projects; (ii) counterpart funding from the
local communities, set at a minimum of 25% initially, which was not available in most instances - this
requirement was reduced after the MTR and improved disbursement rates; and (iii) the insufficient number
of community program officers to appraise and supervise projects,
Upon project closure, the Trustees of the MBIFCT were encouraged to continue to seek the assistance of a
professional fundraiser to ensure the continuance of the trust beyond another 20 years. It was estimated
that after the DGIS co-financing expired a further three to four years of funds for current expenditure was
needed to assure that the MBIFCT had sufficient funds to meet the needs of the trust's activities in
perpetuity.
-7 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated as High (H). Based on conservative estimates, the MBIFCT will either continue to
have at its disposal approximately $800,000 to support its conservation program in perpetuity, or in the
worst-case scenario, that same amount, for the next 20 years. The GEF grant has helped to demonstrate
the feasibility of a conservation trust fund in Africa and has provided long-term sustainable support to
Bwindi Impenetrable and Mgahinga Gorilla national parks. The MBIFCT used the GEF funds as leverage
to secure other donors for the trust (USAID and DGIS). The high performance and success of MBIFCT
will hopefully attract more donors. The community development activities component has increased
awareness of the project and efforts to conserve the parks. By meeting some of the local community's
needs, the project has positively changed the behavior and attitude of local conmmunity, which has
contributed towards decreasing the risk of illegal activities being carried out in the parks. However, there
is a risk that some of the social infrastructure projects (schools, clinics) will suffer if they are solely reliant
on GOU support. The co-financing by USAID (1995-1997) and Netherlands Government (DGIS)
(1997-2002) to cover the operational costs of the TAU for the first 7 years and other specific activities
(Batwa pygmy program and ecological monitoring), allowed the investment income to be reinvested into the
trust, which built up the trust assets considerable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
If the MBIFCT is maintained in perpetuity, the Trust Deed allows for the review of institutional
arrangements by the TMB to allow for changes in Government structure and stakeholder participation. If
the capital is used as a sinking fund, the TMB will have a long lead-time to assure a smooth transition of
operations. The long-term nature of the TMB allows for greater staff continuity and potentially better
relationships with project stakeholders. The first five-year strategic plan of the TMB embraced
establishing best practices and yearly benchmarks. In addition, conservation activities identified by the
TMB as being important to the integrity of the parks, but outside the scope of the MBIFCT's mandate, will
be considered by the Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use Project (PAMSU) currently funded
by the Bank.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). Project preparation was extensive as this
was the first conservation trust of its kind in Africa. Project preparation encompassed not only the
implementation phase of the Bank support but also on defining and establishing the mechanisms and
procedures for the operations of the trust in perpetuity. The detailed institutional structure, the Trust Deed,
the by-laws, and the comprehensive Trust Administration Manual were all developed during project
preparation. The design and implementation modalities for the financial mechanism also has to be
established during project preparation including the identification of the asset manager and the investment
strategy for the Trust.
7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). Ten official supervision missions took
place, in addition to many informal supervision visits and meetings which took place oppurtunistically in
conjunction with the supervision of associated projects. The closing date of the project was extended by
one year as it was felt that the long-tern nature of the Trust fund type project would benefit from an
- 8 -



additional year of Bank supervision. The Mid-Term Review was carried out in 18-29 May, 1998. The
MTR did not propose any revisions to the project design; rather it reviewed compliance with the Trust
Deed and various by-laws in the trust and proposed ways to assist the TAU and TMB in meeting shortfalls.
The final supervision mission of June 2000 noted the great success of the project and the continuation of
the trust fund after the project. Due to the long-term nature of the project objectives and design, an
extension of the closing date of the project was sought to allow for supervision for an additional year.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The Bank was very proactive in the project
inception and paid close attention to the establishment of the trust fund and subsequent project due to the
complex nature of the fund. There was continuity in support as the same task team was maintained from
project inception to project completion. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in allowing for the disbursement
of funds to more community-oriented projects (schools, health clinics) and core recurrent costs of UWA.
Most importantly, the Bank assisted the MBIFCT by helping to attract more donors (USAID and DGIS) to
the fund and by advising the TMB on future strategies for capital and income generation and expenditures.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
At preparation, the recipient's performance was Highly Satisfactory (HS). Uganda was keen to participate
in the newly created Global Environment Facility. It had recently completed a National Environment
Action Plan (NEAP - February 1994) and the proposed project was consisted with three of the five priority
actions defined in the NEAP. Uganda was also anxious to build upon its integrated conservation/
development projects experience with other NGOs and donors and create a conservation trust fund. The
Government demonstrated a high level of initiative and commitment in developing the trust fund. Since the
establishment of the MBIFCT was the first conservation trust fund in Africa, the GOU and other trustees
relied heavily on the preparation team, however the Borrower participated fully in all stages of project
preparation. The establishment of the MBIFCT prior to project effectiveness enhanced the Borrower's
ability to focus on project implementation.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The Government's
participation in the TMB was highly satisfactory, with good cross-sectorial representation. The
Government played an active role in helping to secure funds from other donors for the continuance of the
trust fund and dealt effectively with all of the agreed upon actions. The unforeseen restructuring of the
Uganda National Parks into the Uganda Wildlife Authority caused setbacks in the park's management
component. Implementation delays concerning UWA were largely resolved through constant dialogue and
consultation between the Bank and the Government.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated Highly Satisfactory (HS). The implementing agency,
TMB, with the support of the TAU executed the project in a professional manner. Procurement, financial
management and reporting functions were generally performed well throughout the project. Considering it
was the first trust fund of its kind in Africa, the implementing agency surpassed all expectations in dealing
with the problems that arose. The implementing agencies learned from their mistakes and improved the
management of the project through thorough assessments.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as Highly Satisfactory (HS). Despite the complexities of the trust
fund and the continuous demand for greater funds to be directed at community projects, the Borrower
retained the goal of conserving globally important biodiversity through the protection and management of
-9-



Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park and managed to attract more
funds for the Trust Fund, thus securing its future for at least another 20 years. The Borrower also
demonstrated innovation and flexibility in its cooperation with NGOs and other organizations in the
establishment and management of the MBIFCT. The project acted as a catalyst to instigate proper
long-term procedures and best practices to be followed for the life of the MBIFCT.
8. Lessons Learned
Conservation Trust Fund. A well designed conservation trust fund, such as the MBIFCT, can provide a
stable and permanent source of funds for park management, applied research and community development
projects. The success of the MBIFCT to attract additional donors; increase its capital through investments;
establish a permanent presence in and around the parks; and address park management, research and
community development issues through the provision of reliable and continuous financing can be
considered a model for best practices. However, the complexity of trust funds requires that sufficient
technical assistance be provided to guide the process.
Decentralized decision-making process. The decentralized decision-making process of the MBIFCT
allowed for genuine stakeholder participation and integrity in governance. The division of power between
the Local Community Steering Committee and the Trust Management Board expedited the implementation
of community-based projects, while still allowing for careful financial management of the trust.
Start-Up Funds/Donor Support. The co-financing of the project's administrative costs by USAID and
DGIS allowed the project to build-up its capital by reinvesting its income and not depending upon the initial
investment income to finance the costly start-up of the project. The co-financing for the first 7 years
provided the necessary window to build up enough capital to hopefully maintain the trust in perpetuity.
Phased Community Development Activities. Dividing the community development activities into distinct
granting phases allowed for different thematic approaches, adequate preparation and implementation time,
and was consistent with the absorptive capacity of recipient groups. Restricting the application process
also helped control recipients and avoided an influx of migrants seeking funds.
Innovative Partnership. The cooperation of Government and non-government organizations, including the
private sector, in an innovative partnership arrangement was essential to the political neutrality and
longevity of the MBIFCT. The partnerships help to diversify the stakeholder basis for conservation of the
parks and allowed for different stakeholders to work together to identify and achieve common objectives.
Project Preparation. The investment in both time and resources which were dedicated to the participatory
preparation process of the project allowed the team to fully develop the institutional structure for the Trust
including the detailed Trust Administration Manual. The clear direction for the project that was established
during preparation contributed to the ultimate success of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust was established in September 1995 to
promote and support conservation of Mgahinga Gorilla National Park and the Bwindi Impenetrable
National Park in Southwestern Uganda. The original capital of the Trust, provided by the Global
Environment Facility was US$4.53 million. Since the initial grant, the United States Government and the
Royal Netherlands Government have provided support towards the operational and program expenses of
the Trust thus contributing towards its sustainability.
- 10 -



The design of MBIFCT and its activities was based on a number of key assumptions. The overall
performance of MBIFCT has been steady over the years. MBIFCT received a lot of technical input and
support from the World Bank staff. The support ranged from information sharing to review of
implementation plans and activities. The World Bank staff showed sensitivity to ideas and views from the
community members living in the MBIFCT operational ideas and gave valuable advise enabling the Trust
to further consolidate its achievements.
Each of the essential component of MBIFCT is functioning well separately and in combination to make
MBIFCT an effective Institution. MBIFCT has also had to deal with changing situations and some major
difficulties in the years since its inception. The Board has had to formulate policies, the Local Comnnunity
Steering Committee has had to vet projects and the Technical Advisory Committee has contributed towards
vetting of research proposals and community projects which need Environmental Impact Assessments. The
two additional components - The Ecological Monitoring of the Protected Areas and the Indigenous
People's program are working well.
Challenges during the implementation. At inception, it was anticipated that MBIFCT would work more
with strategic partners especially the Uganda Wildlife Authority, CARE DTC and IGCP. This has not
however been fully realized due to factors outside of MBIFCT mandate. The Trust Administration Unit
has continued to have much responsibilities at implementation level. The capacity of the communities to
manage projects is less than what was initially anticipated. MBIFCT has had to work extensively on
capacity building programs. Although mush progress has been made on the financial aspects of the Trust,
especially with the support of USAID and DGIS, MBIFCT has not yet raised adequate additional funds to
enable the Trust Fund to move from a sinking fund to a fund in perpetuity. Some work is on-going in that
direction and hopefully this too would be realized. The Trustees are still learning on how to cope with
fluctuations in the value of the offshore investment.
(b) Cofinanciers:
USAID
USAID provided funding for the MBIFCT from 1995-1997. The evaluation of the USAID experience with
the MBIFCT, based on a USAID evaluation mission in February 1998, is provided in a 44 page evaluation
report produced in March 1998. The report stated that the overall performance of the Trust 'has been very
enviable' and that the setting up the Trust had been a very appropriate idea. The evaluation team noted
that the Trust had been 'innovative and energetic in its efforts to achieve its objectives' and had
accomplished much in setting up an institutional base, implementing projects and attracting funding from
DGIS for a second phase of funding to cover recurrent cost expenditures. The evaluation team regarded
the financial management of the Trust to be transparent and accountable and operating within its budget. It
noted that the Trust has ensured that local communities were full partners in the MBIFCT and that
partnership with other organizations (CARE/DTC, IGCP, UWA and ITFC) had been created and nurtured.
The evaluation team recognized that the strategy to fund more "common good" projects under the
comnmunity development activities was associated with greater transparency of the MBIFCT and 'thereby
helped to allay community fears of misdirected funds, individual profiteering and other jealousies'.
The evaluation team identified certain constraints of the project, including the rugged nature of the terrain,
restructuring of UWA and certain bureaucratic constraints. The potential weaknesses of the MBIFCT
identified by the team included: (i) the weak integration and interaction of the three subcomponents; (ii)
the emphasis on short-term rather than long-term plans; and (iii) the lack of an internal mechanism for
- 11 -



impact assessment. The report made several recommendations including: (i) provision for revisions to the
Trust Deed to reflect changes in the operating context of the project; (ii) planning to minimize the recurrent
expenditure budget; (iii) greater involvement of the TAC; (iv) formal relationships with collaborative
partners; and (v) better public education about the Trust.
DGIS
The Royal Netherlands Government (DGIS) provided US$2.7 million of support to the MBIFCT for the
period 1997-2002. Since their experience with the MBIFCT is still underway, DGIS did not provide
comments for the ICR. DGIS's support to the MBIFCT is outlined in the project grant agreement between
the MBIFCT and the Royal Netherlands Government and is aimed at three main activities: (i) support for
MBIFCT administrative and operational support; (ii) supplementary support for an intensive ecological
research and monitoring program implemented by ITFC; and (iii) support for a target assistance program
fir the Batwa population of the MEBIFCT area. It is expected that the DGIS will complete its 5-year project
and will try and secure additional funding for the MBIFCT.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
10.1   The experience of the MBIFCT was included in an evaluation of conservation trust funds,
"Experience with Conservation Trust Funds" carried out by the GEF Secretariat in collaboration with the
Bank and UNDP in 1997. While still in its initial stages of project implementation the report noted that
MBIFCT had elements of both a "Parks" fund, aimed at support specific park systems, and a "Grants"
fund, aimed at providing conservation and sustainable development project support and met the GEF
criteria of achieving global environmental benefits. The report noted the success of the MBIPCT to attract
co-financing; assist the GOU and NGOs in their ability to carry out field activities and scientific work; and
provide a long-term, stable funding source for park management and community development.
10.2  The approximately 2,000 Batwa people, indigenous forest dwellers, living near the BINP and
MGNP were the focus of incremental project support from the DGIS. The Batwa, evicted over 30 years
ago from the forests of BINP and MGNP and no longer dependent on the forest, were marginalized and
rely on agricultural lands owned by the majority ethnic communities. The appointment of a Batwa officer
in 1998 and a strategic workshop in 1999 helped to identify two key needs of the Batwa: land ownership
and access and user rights to the forests. These needs were incorporated into an ambitious plan in July
1999 to: (i) increase food availability and household income through the acquisition of land bought by the
trust and provision of seeds and livestock; (ii) reduce illegal activities through Memorandum of
Understandings and establishment of multiple use zones; (iii) increase levels of agricultural and vocational
skills; (iv) increase the level of education by assisting children to attend school; and (v) improve household
sanitation. The MBIFCT used a pilot project under the first round of community grants to trial the rental
of agricultural land. Based on the success of the pilot project, the MBIFCT bought over 150 acres of land
in two districts to distribute to Batwa families. Based on results, the MBIFCT will seek to extend the
Batwa component if successful past the initial DGIS commitment
10.3   The monitoring and evaluation program (M&E) of the project had three levels: (i) financial
management of the MBIFCT - measured by the rate of return on the capital, income and expenditures; (ii)
administrative management - measured by the fulfillment of the duties of the various management
structures; and (iii) long-term ecological and socio-economic aspects - measured by indicators including
ecological integrity, conservation status of the parks, attitudes of communities towards the parks, and living
- 12 -



conditions. M&E activities were carried out and included extensive reports from the asset manager on the
fund's activities, regular activity reports from all of the management structures on fulfillment of duties,
minutes of the TMB meetings; status reports on key indicators monitored under the Ecological Monitoring
Program; and status reports on socio-economic issues, with particular regards to the Batwa situation. An
overall assessment of the M&E program is premature, as due to the unique character of the trust fund, a
long-term perspective on performance must be adopted.
10.4   The unique biological composition of BINP and MGNP and their importance in regional
conservation was not sufficiently highlighted by project results. Although the MBIFCT gained a favorable
international recognition, other aspects of the project, such as the community development activities, were
upheld as examples of the project rather than the plight of two of the most important remnant forests in
Africa. This was in part due to the crisis at UWA, weak public awareness, and existence of several other
projects outside of the MBIFCT involved in conservation of BINP and MGNP who attended to some of the
more biologically oriented aspects of the parks. The project did result in the completion of several graduate
degrees (primarily Masters), the publication of many scientific reports, research into a broader range of
areas including: baseline biological monitoring; ecological change; forest gap dynamics; gorilla censuses;
small mammal inventories; impact of management interventions; off-take levels; harvesting practices and
illegal activities; anthropogenic perturbations; physiochemical parameters; and socio-economic indicators
and a better understanding of the biodiversity in the parks.
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome  Impact indicators:
Pn*ate07     1Matr                        Projected000 [0000 ;iP<n last PSRt:   Act j0;00S;:ualatest Estimate :00004
Establishment of adequate institutional,  SAR target: Permanent structure for  SAR target: Permanent structure for
adrninistrative and financial arrangements for MBIFCT by PY3                 MBIFCT by PY3
MBIFCT
Develop community development and      SAR target: Identify, initiate and implement  Executed 50 projects and identfied a second
altemative income-generating activities  community development and           round of projects to be implemented over the
around the parks.                      income-generating acivities consistent with  next three years
biodiversity conservation
Conduct ecological and socio-economic  SAR target: Conduct priority research  Established a long-term Ecological
research consistent with improved park                                       Monitoring Program, conducted key studies,
management and park/community                                                survey and inventories
interacions
Implement rabonal management plans in    SAR target: Implement park management   Funding redirected to basic operational
BINP and MGNP                         activies in both parks                 needs and activities of UWA
Output Indicators:                              _
t: .   dlSeatodiMatr  0  0 |       fP@Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Establish long-temm funding mechanism for  SAR target: Establish the MBIFCT as a  The MBIFCT has sufficient funds for at least
conservation activies                  viable Trust Fund for BINP and MGNP   25 years and hopefully in perpetuity
Establish effective community-based   SAR target: Decentralized decision-making   Local Community Steering Committee well
decision-making arrangements           process, with emphasis on local       developed with good representation on Trust
communities                           Management Board
Reduce pressures on forest resources and   SAR target: Alleviate hardship of lost access Project supported more social infrastructure
curb illegal activties                to forest resources by developing      projects than IGAs in the first 4 years. For
inoome-generating activities          future community projects, the emphasis will
be on IGAs
Establish collaborative partnerships with    SAR target: Links with CARE/DTC and  Good informal links with CARE/DTC and
other conservation groups             IGCP                                   IGCP. Next step is to formalize link with
MOUs
Improve conditions of Batwa people     SAR target: Assist the Batwa to achieve a    Land for agriculture was purchased for
better quality of life                Batwa families, Batwa received community
development grants, a Batwa officer was
hired to liaise with project and Batwa were
represented on the LCSC
End of project
There was no log fiame exercise when the project was started.
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proiect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                 US$ million    US$ million
Subgrant Program                                          0.40             0.40             100
Trust Administration                                      1.40             1.40             100
Offshore Trust Management                                 0.51             0.51             100
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.31             2.31
Total Project Costs                 2.31            2.31
Total Financing Required                  2.31            2.31
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component              Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate   |
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt      Co      Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Subgrant Program         0.31                0.09      0.31                0.09    100.0          100.0
Trust Administration     0.60                0.80      0.60                0.80    100.0          100.0
Offshore Trust           0.51                          0.51                         100.0
Management
TOTAL                    1.42                0.89      1.42                0.89    100.0          100.0
- 15-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
-16 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progrcss      Objective
Identification/Preparation
3/16/93                     1   Sr. Ecologist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 9/20/93
Negotiations 3/3/94         2   Sr. Ecologist, Legal Specialist
Supervision
7/13/95                                                             HS            HS
4/10/96                      2   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist    HS             HS
7/9/96                       2   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist    HS            HS
6/23/97                      2   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist    HS             HS
5/18/98                      5   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist,   HS            HS
Community Participation Spec.,
Conservation Finance Spec.
8/27/99                                                            HS             HS
6/12/00                      3   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist     HS            HS
ICR
5/15/01                     2    Env. Specialist, Sr.
Ecologist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               71.5                      153.80
Appraisal/Negotiation                    26.7                       56.20
Supervision                              44.9                      150.16
ICR                                      12.6                       42.04
Total                                   155.6                      402.20
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OI1 Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                        * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Financial                              * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              * H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OL Environmental                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Gender                           OH OSUOM ON *NA
Ol Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
LI Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management               O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS *S OU OHU
[ Supervision                                        OHS OS   Ou  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        * HS (S   O  U  O HU
L Government implementation performance              0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                 * HS ( S  0U   O HU
Fl Overall                                           *HS (DS  0  U  O HU
- 19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
-    Uganda Bwindi Impenetrable National Park & Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Project Document
(GEF Grant UG P002893) 1995
-    Statement of mission objectives, back-to-office reports, supervision reports and aide-memoires
1995-2000
-    Uganda Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust Midterm Review, May 1998
-    Disbursement database and reports - Uganda Bwindi Impenetrable National Park & Mgahinga
Gorilla National Park Project (GEF Grant UG P002893). World Bank's Integrated Controller's
System 1995-2000.
- 20 -



MAP SECTION






UGANDA
MGAHINGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE
.1  7 oz ,)                                  BUSHENYI (3  (                              FOREST CONSERVATION TRUST
{,J  Y          X             wJ                                              )                                   Project Area
>y ----.    ./<                   , 4             t   ,                                    -      PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
----  PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
/ /                                                                           \ s . \ X UNSURFACED ROADS
To Mbarara                   RIVERS
, v  su   \\   zs  J 1                     0<  o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
;/                                         \  2 \ X---- f * DISTRICT CAPITALS
BulI          RUK   NGIRI                                        ,                                       *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
To                   KIRIs                        -_    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES*
Rutshuru                  X  KIRJMA                                                                                                   SUB-COUNTY BOUNDARIES
Q~~~~~ \          .j                                                          ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN PROJECT AREA ONLY (approximate)
B                                                                                                                   i   Gt \ KarilMnR9uuGyE'\tL \^, 5J  -   IN TERN A TIO N A L   BO U N D A R IES
:   /   -  C  /Ntungamo  *District names coincide with district capitals.
\ O B"hOh     rir X                 NYAKISHENYI ),l
utand                                                         0                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25       50
Kilo meters
IKUMBALE                                                                                                IB;UTI
Ruts4uru            1:           ISORTo Kogero N.P                                                                                                   SUDAN           ETHIOPIA
C.A.R.\
Mgohingo Gorilla   ,   ( ;
National Pork
NYARSIZ    KERWA NDA4   KEY
BURUNDlI .
O   /                              ~~~~~~~~To Ruhengeri iw                                                                                      UUDS\X                                  -
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information          TANZANIA         Inian
shawn on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                              Ocean,     u
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                      ,Q             '0
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                         zp,             N               _



