GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
1 -130-UJ&
Uganda
Bwindi Impenetrable National Park &
Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Conservation
Project Document
January 1995
LIU
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environiment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extende'd project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = UShs. 991 (as of March 3, 1994)
US$1 = SDR 1.40248 (as of March 3, 1994)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AWF    African Wildlife Foundation
BINP    Bwindi Impenetrable National Park
DTC    Development Through Conservation project (USAID/CARE)
EAWLS    East African Wildlife Society
EABWG    Eastern Africa Biodiversity Working Group
FFPS    Floral and Faunal Protection Society
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GET    Global Environment Trust
GOU    Government of Uganda
IGCP    International Gorilla Conservation Project (AWF, WWF, FFPS)
IPP    Indigenous Peoples' Plan
ITFC    Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation (Mbarara University,
USAID/WWF)
IUCN    World Conservation Union
LCSC    Local Community Steering Committee (of the MBIFCT)
MBIFCT    Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
MGNP    Mgahinga Gorilla National Park
MISR    Makerere Institute for Social Research
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding
MUIENR    Makerere University Institute for Environment and Natural Resources
MTWA    Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities
NEAP    National Environmental Action Plan
NGO    Non-governmental Organization
PMAC    Park Management Advisory Committee
RC    Resistance Council
TAM      Trust Administration Manual
TAC    Technical Advisory Committee
TAU    Trust Administration Unit
TMB    Trust Management Board (Trustees of the MBIFCT)
UNP    Uganda National Parks
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WWF    Worldwide Fund for Nature






REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
BWINDI IMPENETRABLE NATIONAL PARK
AND
MGAHINGA GORILLA NATIONAL PARK CONSERVATION PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Recipient:                  Republic of Uganda
Beneficiary:                Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation
Trust
Poverty:                    Not Applicable
Cofinancier:                United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
Grantor:                    Global Environment Trust (GET)
Amount:                     SDR 2.9 million (US$4 million equivalent)
Financing Plan:             See Schedule A
Economic Rate of
Return:                     Not Applicable
Map:                        IBRD 25291






THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
BWINDI IMPENETRABLE NATIONAL PARK AND MGAHINGA GORILLA NATIONAL
PARK CONSERVATION PROJECT
Background
1. Uganda was once known as the "Pearl of Africa," a reflection of the richness of its natural endowment of
forests, mountains, waterways and wildlife as well as its fertile soils and equable climate. Until the early 1970s,
Uganda had a well-managed system of natural areas which served as the basis for a substantial tourism industry.
Fifteen years of political instability subsequently took a heavy toll on the country's economy and resources,
including biological resources and protected areas. Revitalizing both the conservation program and the tourism
industry is now a high priority for the current government. A National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP),
prepared by an independent secretariat and multi-sectoral task forces, was adopted by the Government of
Uganda (GOU) in February 1994. Implementation of the NEAP will be supported through follow-up projects
and investments which are expected to address, among other things, strengthening the institutional and policy
framework for conservation of biodiversity and management of protected areas.
2. The BINP and the MGNP in southwestern Uganda are among the most biologically diverse tropical forests
in East Africa and represent the rapidly dwindling Afro-montane and Afro-alpine ecosystems, considered to be
the rarest vegetational type on the continent. The 331 km2 BINP is the largest remaining tract of natural forest
in Uganda and is the only site in East Africa encompassing an unbroken ecological continuum of lowland,
transitional and montane forest. The 48 km2 MGNP represents the Ugandan part of the Virungas volcanoes
range. Both are believed to represent Pleistocene refugia, that is areas which escaped glaciation and therefore
experienced an unbroken evolutionary history. As a result of ecotypical diversity and history, the BINP in
particular is one of the richest areas in Africa for mammalian diversity, containing at least 120 species including
10 primates, most notably half of the entire world population of approximately 600 Mountain Gorillas (Gorilla
gorilla beren,zei) (the remainder are in the Virungas range). The BINP is the richest forest in Uganda in
montane birds, being home to at least 330 species including one endemic subspecies and seven species listed in
the International Council for Bird Preservation's Red Data Book. It is also probably the richest forest in East
Africa in butterflies, containing more than 84 percent of Uganda's butterfly fauna and well over 200 species,
including eight endemic to the Albertine Rift and two World Conservation Union (IUCN) Red Data Book
species. Other vertebrate and invertebrate species have been little studied to date but the indications are that
they are also rich; for example at least 28 species of reptiles and 27 amphibians are found in the BINP.
Knowledge of the flora is also incomplete, but the BINP is believed to be the richest in Uganda in terms of trees,
with over 190 species identified (including 10 endemics and 16 with highly restricted distributions). The BINP
is also unique in Uganda in containing almost no plots of exotic tree species.
3. These two forest areas also serve as critical water catchments and as sources of forest products which are
greatly valued by local communities. The water catchment function was the original reason for gazetting the
present BINP as a Reserve in the 1930s: it has been estimated that the BINP protects about 6 percent of
Uganda's total water catchment area. Traditionally, local communities have benefited both by harvest of
products for their own use and from employment in timber extraction. A baseline study of the BINP area found
that 90 percent of residents use products from the forests, and about 20 percent of households were involved in
pitsawing or board carrying as a source of income in the past.
4. This level of exploitation of forest products has, however, been unsustainable. Prior to their gazettement as
national parks, the two areas suffered significant ecological impacts from harvesting of timber and other forest
resources and poaching'. Only about 10 percent of the BINP is now completely undisturbed, while about 60
1/ Details in Working Paper No. 2 on Ecological, Conservation and Economic Aspects (in Project File).



percent has been heavily logged and about 30 percent selectively logged. Estimates of the volume of hardwood
timber removed from the forest range widely, from an average of about 940 m3 per year between 1972-1983, to
about 4,530 m3 in 1983 alone, while the most recent (1973) report estimated the average density of commercial
hardwoods of harvestable size at just 45 cm3 per ha. The total numbers and population structures of numerous
other heavily used plant and animal species have also deteriorated significantly.
5. In the absence of an active and effective program to conserve the forest ecosystems and biological resources
it is highly likely that this trend would continue and worsen to the point of total loss. The human population
density in this area is one of the highest in Africa. The total population of the three Districts adjacent to the
parks' borders was about 927,000 in 1991, growing at an annual average rate of 3.5 percent between 1981 and
1991, and with densities above the national average. Agricultural land surrounding the parks is intensively used
and growing scarce, with 75-80 percent of the cultivatable land in the area now in use, compared to a national
average of less than 50 percent. Hence, agricultural encroachment represents a continuing threat to sustainable
resource use.
6. As national parks, BINP and MGNP currently enjoy the highest conservation status under Ugandan law.
For example, all consumptive use of the flora and fauna is now banned, including commercial hardwood
timbering . The limited data available show some positive results in terms of recovery of some species and
restoration of habitat quality (details in Technical Annex I). However, the limited resources of the Uganda
National Parks (UNP) continue to constrain its effectiveness, for example in patrolling and enforcing regulations
on forest access, in working with the communities to build and maintain their support for conservation, and in
carrying out ecological monitoring and applied research to guide park management. The project will address
these needs by supporting selected incremental conservation, research and community development activities.
The permanent nature of the funding by the Trust is important because neither local communities nor Uganda as
a whole are likely to ever be able to effectively capture the full benefits of conserving these areas, particularly as
some of these benefits are global in nature.
7. While the project will provide incremental financial support, ensuring the continued protection and
appropriate management of the BINP and MGNP, including developing and implementing management plans
with the consultation and cooperation of the local communities, remains the responsibility of the UNP. The
UNP is in the process of preparing management plans for all national parks, following a process of consultation
with local communities and conservation groups active in the area. The management plan for the BINP has
been completed with substantial involvement of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and local
communities, and has been approved by the UNP Board of Directors. The plan includes a zonation approach
including a core protected area, tourism zones and multiple use zones where local residents would be allowed to
resume limited sustainable harvesting of selected forest products. The preparation of a management plan for the
MGNP has begun, with studies being carried out to provide the needed data. The UNP proposes to follow the
same sort of participatory process as for the BINP plan and anticipates completion and adoption by March 1995.
The overall GOU national parks policy is also undergoing revision and a revised policy is likely to be approved
in 1995.
8. The MBIFCT would operate alongside several other NGO-assisted conservation projects which are
currently active in the MBIFCT project area, the Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation (with support from
the Worldwide Fund for Nature, WWF), the Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Project (German Animal
Protection Society), the International Gorilla Conservation Project (WWF, African Wildlife Foundation and
Flora and Fauna Preservation Society). A USAID-funded "Development Through Conservation" (DTC) project
implemented by CARE-Uganda is active mainly in the 24 Parishes immediately surrounding BINP. Its main
aim is to reduce human pressure on the forests through conservation education and by providing technical
21 However, controlled, closely monitored use of some products is in the process of being reconsidered and, in some cases, re-introduced
on a trial basis.



- 3 -
assistance, but not direct financial assistance or inputs, to promote environmentally sustainable development
(e.g. agricultural and agro-forestry extension). It also helps support UNP's community conservation program.
The MBIFCT would complement these initiatives by serving as a source of funds to help enable community
groups, researchers and UNP to implement the activities, plans and programs being identified and developed
through these projects. It would also help to implement the GOU's policy to ensure that local communities
obtain benefits from protected areas and are consulted and involved in their management.
Project Objectives
9. The main objective of the project is to support biodiversity conservation in the BINP and MGNP both
directly, by providing incremental support for park management and related research activities, and indirectly,
by funding grants to help local community groups develop economic activities which will provide alternative
means of meeting needs which were traditionally met by harvesting forest resources (e.g. timber, poles, meat,
cash income). Among the types of activities likely to be funded are beekeeping (including marketing of
products), agro-forestry and woodlots, dairy and poultry production and ecotourism services and facilities.
These economic activities will help compensate the communities for the loss of their traditional access to these
resources when the forests were gazetted as protected areas. They will also help discourage illegal exploitation
and burning of the forests, which the authorities cannot completely eliminate through simple enforcement, by
providing alternatives and by fostering a positive attitude among the communities toward these national parks as
a source of concrete benefits. The cooperative approach to managing the funds will also provide an opportunity
for the different stakeholders to work together to identify and achieve common objectives. The funds available
from the Trust for these three components (park management, research, community projects) will be very
modest compared to the total needs in each case. The Trust is meant to provide incremental support,
complementing but not displacing funds from the GOU and other donors.
10. The project also represents an experiment in application of two important principles for biodiversity
conservation: (I) including community representatives as full partners in decision-making, as a means of
gaining community support for conservation and "ownership" of the project, and (2) the use of a Trust Fund as
a mechanism for providing reliable, long-term funding for conservation activities. The first two years would
serve as a "pilot project" to test the appropriateness and effectiveness of the institutional and administrative
structures, and also the adequacy of the financial arrangements for achieving long-term sustainability (i.e.,
maintaining the real value of the capital while generating a reliable, adequate level of income to meet project
implementation needs). After two years a mid-term review would evaluate the project's success in relation to
both of these objectives, and determine whether corrective action is needed (e.g. institutional restructuring,
changes in administration procedures, increase in the capital fund, etc.).
I1. The project is fully consistent with the priority action areas as defined in the NEAP, in that it addresses
three of the five priority areas for investment: conservation of biodiversity, capacity building, and
environmental awareness.
Project Description
12. Under the project the GET would provide an initial capital of SDR 2.9 million (US$4 million) for a trust
fund, the MBIFCT. This would be supplement by a USAID grant of US$890,700 to fund the establishment and
operation of a Trust Administration Unit (TAU) for the first two years of the project. The capital would be
invested overseas and only the annual income, net of administration costs, would be used to fund project
activities. The MBIFCT's Trust Management Board (TMB) would be responsible for deciding on the
appropriate use of these funds each year, with the following general guidelines (details are provided in Technical
Annex 5 and specified in the Trust Administration Manual):



- 4 -
(1)     Community Development Activities (60 percent of net annual income). Projects which: (i) are
proposed by established local community groups; (ii) have a demonstrable positive impact on
conservation of the parks and their biodiversity (e.g. non-consumptive utilization of forests
such as eco-tourism; development of substitutes for vulnerable resources); (iii) are consistent
with UNP policies and park management plans; (iv) meet agreed criteria of social and
environmental soundness, equitability and transparency; (v) include a matching contribution in
cash or kind by the proposing group; and (vi) include provisions and arrangements for
accountability and long-term sustainability.
(2)     Research Activities (20 percent of income). Ecological and socio-economic research which
provides data needed for improving park management and park/community interactions.
Examples include surveys and monitoring of key indicator species and ecosystem quality and
functions, evaluation of options for sustainable use of selected forest resources in multiple-use
zones, and research on reducing wildlife impacts on crops. A draft framework research
program was developed at a workshop held in October, 1993. The workshop was jointly
organized by the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC), which is designated by
UNP to coordinate research relating to the BINP, and the East African Wildlife Society
(EAWLS) which is seeking to facilitate biodiversity research and data management in the
region. ITFC and other researchers will submit proposals for research funding to the TMB
and its Technical Advisory Committee (see para. 15), which will draw upon this workshop
report for guidance regarding priorities for use of Trust funds and to help ensure
complementarity with other ongoing research efforts. All research activities funded must be
consistent with the park management plans.
(3)     Park Management Activities (20 percent of income). Grants to UNP to help meet the costs of
implementing management plans for BINP and MGNP (e.g. improved marking of park
boundaries, expanded patrols, possible purchase of small land areas to enhance the habitat,
restoration of degraded areas (e.g. to encourage gorilla groups and other fauna which currently
wander throughout the 3-country Virungas area to once again take up more permanent
residence in the MGNP), and facilitating community consultation and participation in park
management). UNP will submit proposals to the TMB for funding of specific activities within
the context of its annual work plans which will be derived from the park management plans.
A Memorandum of Understanding between UNP and the MBIFCT sets out their relationship
and respective responsibilities.
Project Implementation
13. The MBIFCT has been established as an independent body under Ugandan law (the Trustee Act Cap 142).
The GEF grant will be given to the GOU which will serve as settlor, passing the grant on to the MBIFCT. The
Trust Deed was reviewed by the Bank's Legal Department and an outside specialist on trust law prior to
enactment. The Trust Deed specifies that the Trust will benefit the BINP and the MGNP while ensuring that the
interests of the local communities will also be addressed. The TMB also serves as the Trustees of the funds and
would have overall responsibility for management of the funds and for project implementation. The TMB
would engage an assets manager to invest the capital fund, following an agreed investment strategy3. The TMB
would also delegate specific responsibilities (as described below) to a Local Community Steering Committee, a
Trust Administration Unit, and a Technical Advisory Committee.
I/ TMB members have selected an assets manager and will approve an investment strategy acceptable to the Bank. A report prepared by a
financial management consultant providing recommendations for management of the capital fund is available in the project files.



- 5 -
14. The composition, objectives, responsibilities and operational modalities of the TMB and of these other
components of the organizational structure are set out in the Trust Deed and Bye-laws of the MBIFCT and in a
Trust Administration Manual. The Trust Deed and Bye-laws and the draft TAM were reviewed by the Bank
prior to negotiations. The final version of the TAM will be submitted in a form acceptable to the Bank as a
condition of project effectiveness. In summary (details in Technical Annex 3):
(1)    The Trust Management Board (TMB) has 9 voting members, who serve as the Trustees, i.e. one
representative each from: (i) UNP, (ii) the Forest Department, (iii) a national conservation
NGO (initially Wildlife Clubs of Uganda), (iv) an international NGO with an active
conservation program in the area (initially CARE), (v) a research institution active in the area
(initially the Mbarara University Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation), (vi) the private
sector (initially the Uganda Tourism Association), and (vii-ix) the residents of the three
Districts surrounding BINP and MGNP. It also has 5 ex-officio (non-voting) members, who
are not Trustees, i.e. one representative each from: (i) the Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and
Antiquities, (ii) the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, (iii) the Attorney General's
office and (iv) an active donor (initially USAID), as well as the Trust Administrator. Each
body was responsible for selecting its own representative. An initial TMB with membership
acceptable to the Bank has been constituted and will serve for two years, after which those
TMB members will either continue or be replaced by their respective nominating bodies.
The TMB serves as the legal Trustees of the MBIFCT and would (i) arrange for and oversee
investment of the capital fund, (ii) allocate the annual income based on proposals received
(from UNP, researchers and community groups); (iii) receive accounts and arrange for regular
audits of expenditures, and (iv) monitor and report to the Bank and the GOU on the
implementation and achievements of the project in relation to its objectives. The TMB would
meet on a quarterly basis to decide on allocation of income accrued the previous quarter.
(2)     The Local Community Steering Committee (LCSC) would consist of on-site representatives of
the major "stakeholders," such as the Wardens-in-Charge of BINP and MGNP, the field staff
of NGOs active in the area, and local communities (including representatives of the
surrounding sub-counties, of local women's groups, resource user groups and the Batwa4).
Three of the community members on the LCSC would serve as the community representatives
on the TMB. The LCSC would serve as the main liaison between the TMB and the
communities. It would screen all community project proposals, and have the authority to
approve projects up to US$1000 directly while forwarding larger proposals to the TMB for
approval5.
(3)    The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) would consist of local technical specialists appointed
by the TMB, and would assist the TMB in evaluating the ecological, economic, environment
and social soundness of proposed projects. The TAC would also have the option of
recommending that the MBIFCT engage short-term technical assistance for more in-depth
review or other assistance to the proposing group.
(4)     The Trust Administration Unit (TAU) would be based in Kabale and would consist of an
internationally recruited Trust Administrator (for the first 2 years), a Deputy Trust
4/ A local minority ethnic group.
5/ At the request of the UNP, it may also screen community proposals for use of Revenue Sharing funds arising from gorilla-tracking fees,
as opposed to proceeds from the Trust. After LCSC screening, these would be passed on to the Bwindi and Mgahinga Park Management
Advisory Committees, instead of the MBIFCT TMB. for approval.



- 6 -
Administrator (to take over as Administrator in Year 3), two Community Extension Workers
and an Accountant as well as support staff. These individuals would be the only full-time
employees of the MBIFCT. They would be engaged by the TMB, initially subject to approval
by the Bank and by USAID, which would fund the TAU for the first two years. The TAU
would be responsible for: (i) community outreach (in collaboration with other NGO and UNP
extension staff), (ii) receiving, vetting and submitting community proposals to the TAC, the
LCSC and the TMB, (iii) disbursing funds to recipient groups and ensuring that proper
disbursement and procurement procedures are followed, (iv) maintaining financial records and
accounting/reporting, and (v) ongoing monitoring and evaluation of implementation of
projects receiving MBIFCT support.
15. Details of implementation set out in the Trust Administration Manual include: selection criteria for
community, research and park management projects; mechanisms to ensure appropriate social and
environmental assessment; formats for project proposals, disbursement and procurement procedures; financial
management and accounting procedures; monitoring and evaluation; operational guidelines for the LCSC, TAU
and TAC; and terms of reference for each staff member of the TAU. A detailed draft Manual has been prepared
and reviewed by the Bank. The final text will be agreed prior to project effectiveness and will not be modified
without the Bank's consent for the first five years.
16. Effective implementation of the project will require considerable community education, extension and
outreach, yet the population to be served is large and scattered over a wide area with poor transportation and
communications infrastructure. Trust administration costs must nevertheless be kept at a minimum to ensure
maximum funds available for project activities. Therefore, the TAU would have only two community extension
workers and would collaborate closely with others, particularly the field staff of International Gorilla
Conservation Program (IGCP) and the extensionists and UNP community conservation wardens who are
currently supported under the CARE/DTC project, on the public awareness and outreach aspects. CARE, UNP
and IGCP have agreed to this collaboration. The specific agreements and arrangements are be laid out in the
Trust Administration Manual.
17. First year work plans for the TAU and for the research and park management components would be
submitted for Bank review prior to project effectiveness. For the first five years of the Trust's operation, its
work plans (including proposed allocation of funds, work plans for the research and park management
components and community projects selected for funding) would be submitted to the Bank for comment prior to
final approval by TMB.
Procurement
18. As the entire proceeds of the GEF Grant will be invested directly in the Trust, only interest earned from the
trust (after project year two) will be utilized to finance subprojects and recurrent costs of the Trust
administration. Establishment and recurrent costs of the Trust Administration Unit and subproject grants for the
first two years will be financed by USAID following their procurement procedures. In year two, the USAID
grant will continue to fund recurrent costs. The selection of the Trust asset manager has been carried out under
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Procurement of goods under subprojects, such as local construction
materials, will be carried out under local procedures acceptable to the Bank and specified in the Trust
Administration Manual. Subprojects are expected to average US$ 5,000 or less. As it will be difficult to
establish which purchases are financed exclusively through GEF Grant revenues, post review of project
procurements will be carried out by the Bank, during the course of normal project supervision and in the annual
review of the Trust work plan (para. 18).



-7 -
Project Sustainobility
19. The establishment of the MBIFCT specifically aims to overcome the common problem of lack of
sustainability of traditional projects. Sustainability would be achieved on four fronts: (a) direct financial
sustainability, through preservation of the capital and disbursement of only the annual income generated by the
Trust; (b) ensuring that sustainability is a major criterion in selection of specific projects for funding; (c)
emphasis on projects which promote sustainable use of natural resources and provide long-term economic
benefits to the communities (e.g. eco-tourism, agro-forestry); and (d) improvement in community attitudes
towards the parks and conservation in general, leading to more positive behaviors and political support.
20. Technical Annex 4 provides illustrative financial projections based on various levels of total rate of return
on investment of the capital and variations of some other parameters (e.g. number of years of external support
for administration costs, additional contributions to the capital). Major assumptions include: (i) international
inflation of 3 percent; (ii) recurrent administrative costs of US$200,000 per year to be met from the income;
(iii) a minimum of US$ 100,000 to be disbursed for subgrants each year; (iv) an asset management fee of I
percent and no other fees or taxes paid.
21. The main conclusions from these projections are:
(1)     a minimum total rate of return of 10.4 percent would be needed to maintain the real value of the
capital under these conditions;
(2)     an additional (third) year of external support for administration costs would reduce this minimum
to 9.9 percent;
(3)     with a more conservative rate of return of 8.5 percent, the US$4 million capital would erode to less
than one half its current value within 28 years;
(4)     an additional investment of US$3.5 million in year three would make it possible to maintain the
6
real value of the capital with an 8.5 percent total rate of return .
22. The estimates in Annex 4 project a 2:1 ratio of annual administrative costs to disbursements from the Trust's
income, even making allowance for a substantial reduction in costs to be made when USAID funding ceases.
As this is considered unacceptable for the success of the Trust in the long term, the Trust Deed Bye-laws specify
that the Trustees must seek to achieve a better ratio in a reasonable period of time: the Trust Deed states that the
Trust is to be automatically dissolved should it be uneconomical considering the costs of operating the Trust, the
Trust's probable income and other relevant factors. It is anticipated that the ratio will be improved both by
additional contributions to the capital (and therefore the total amount available from annual interest) and through
modest reductions in the Trust's administrative costs (e.g. reduction in accounting staff once computerized
procedures are in place, reduction in travel costs as the local community becomes more familiar with the Trust).
Furthermore, USAID or other donors may prove willing to continue funding the TAU for sometime beyond
year 2. (Nevertheless, to be conservative, the financial projections reflect an annual increase of about 3 percent
in trust administration costs beginning in year 3).
E/ This incremental funding will likely be requested from the GET and/or bilateral donors, based on the initial success of the project
approach and institutional framnework. If it is not received, it is unlikely that the Trust can be maintained in perpetuity.



Lessonsfrom Previous Bank Involvement
23. The most relevant Bank experiences relate to: establishment of Trust Funds, "community-based
conservation," and projects involving provision of funds and technical assistance for small-scale community
projects (e.g. agricultural credit schemes). Two GEF projects involving a Trust Fund (Bhutan and Trilateral
Foundation for the Eastern Carpathians) have been approved, and others (e,g, Peru) are under preparation,
providing useful information regarding legal, administrative and financial aspects. Community conservation is a
new area for Bank involvement (and as yet there are few well established models anywhere), but important
lessons can already be drawn from the innovative Community Wildlife Program under the Kenya Protected
Areas and Wildlife Services Project as well as from other GEF projects (e.g. in Congo, Zimbabwe, Ghana). The
Bank has considerable experience with setting up small-scale credit schemes, credit guarantee schemes and
small-scale business advisory services in Uganda (e.g. Southwest Agricultural Rehabilitation Project,
Agricultural Development Project, Enterprise Development Project) and elsewhere. The Trust Administration
Manual is partly modeled on the draft implementation manual prepared for funding of community subprojects in
the Ghana Agricultural Sector Investment Project. The outputs of the Bank's task force on disbursement and
procurement issues in participatory projects, when available, will also be relevant.
Rationalefor GEF Involvement
24. The project responds to GEF criteria by: (i) supporting conservation of natural areas which are rich in
biodiversity, including numerous endemic, rare and endangered species, and constitute remnants of a rare and
rapidly vanishing ecosystem (Afro-montane forest). The benefits of such conservation are in large measure
expected to be global in nature; (ii) helping to protect the only existing population of a highly endangered
species, the Mountain Gorilla; and (iii) providing economic benefits to communities to help balance negative
impacts (e.g. wildlife damage) and opportunity costs arising from their proximity to national parks. The
MBIFCT will complement funds which the communities will receive from gorilla tourism revenues, which UNP
proposes to begin sharing in the near future. However, community benefits from revenue sharing will be limited
by the fact that tourist numbers must be kept low to avoid negative impacts on the gorillas and the forests, and
may fluctuate or even cease in the future due to factors such as security, world economic trends or the need to
protect gorillas from infectious diseases7. In addition, it is expected that at least some of the funds designated
by UNP for revenue sharing will pass to communities outside the immediate vicinity of BINP and MGNP.
25. The project will also promote sustainable use of biological resources, both through ecotourism development
and by supporting the research, management capacity, community interactions and education programs which
would enable UNP to implement its plans to allow controlled exploitation of some forest products through the
establishment of multiple use zones. In the absence of external funding UNP would only be able to maintain a
minimum level of park protection and management with much less community involvement and benefit. The
main innovations in the project which may serve as models for others are the use of a Trust Fund to provide
reliable, long-term funding and the cooperation among different "stakeholders," including local communities as
full partners, in project design, implementation and decision-making.
Assurances
26. The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
7/ While considerable revenues are already being collected from BINP, there are presently none from MGNP, where gorilla tracking has not
yet begun due to the security situation.



- 9 -
(1)    GOU approval for GEF grant transfer to the MBIFCT: At negotiations, the GOU confirmed
that the GET grant of US$4 million will to be made to GOU and then transferred directly to
the MBIFCT.
(2)    Park Management: The UNP and MBIFCT signed a Memorandum of Understanding which
includes commitments on the part of the UNP to maintain the conservation values of the two
parks and the BINP management plan has been approved by the UNP Board of Directors. A
draft management plan for MGNP will be submitted by UNP to the Bank for review prior to
project effectiveness, and will be approved by March, 1995. A side letter to the Grant
Agreement specifies the government's commitment for completing and implementing a
resettlement plan for compensation of people being moved from the BINP. A plan acceptable
to the Bank has been approved and the necessary funds have been obtained as a condition of
project approval. Implementation of the plan will begin prior to project effectiveness.
(3)    Investment and Protection of the Capital Fund: An Assets Manager has been selected by the
TMB utilizing selection procedures acceptable to the Bank. Prior to project effectiveness, the
MBIFCT TMB will submit a proposed investment strategy for Bank review. TMB ratification
of the strategy and appointment of an assets manager will be conditions of effectiveness.
(4)    Eligible Uses of Funds/GEF Objectives: Because allocation of the Trust income will be based
on proposals to be submitted to and approved by the TMB, the precise projects and activities
to be funded cannot be determined in advance. To ensure that MBIFCT funds will be in
accordance with the GEF project's objectives, the following documents have been or will be
reviewed and approved by the Bank, and the Grant and Project Agreements specify that they
cannot be modified without Bank consent for five years (the period of active Bank supervision
of the project): (i) the Trust Deed and Bye-laws, which specify the objectives of the Trust and
the legal responsibilities of the Trustees (text was approved and the Deed enacted prior to
negotiations); and (ii) the Trust Administration Manual, which gives specific eligibility
criteria for community projects including environmental and social assessment requirements,
and operational guidelines for the LCSC, the TAC and the TAU (text was reviewed at
negotiations and will be finalized as a condition of effectiveness). Annual work plans for the
park management component and for the research component will also be reviewed and
approved by the Bank (first year work plans will be reviewed prior to project effectiveness).
The Trust Administration Manual specifies the measures and mechanisms which will ensure
compliance with the Bank's Operational Directives on Indigenous People, Resettlement,
Environmental Assessment and participation by NGOs, and with the Bank's procurement and
disbursement procedures to the extent these are applicable.
(5)    Bank Review of Trust Operations, and Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements: In
addition to Bank approval of the above documents, proposed MBIFCT work plans (including
proposed allocation of funds) will be reviewed by the Bank prior to final approval by the
TMB and release of funds each quarter. The Bank will also carry out standard supervision of
the implementation and administration of the Trust for the first five years, with a mid-term
review after Year 2 and a final review at the end of Year 5. As described in Technical Annex
7, topics for the mid-term and final reviews include asset management performance vis-a-vis
original financial objectives; administration procedures and costs; the adequacy of subproject
selection criteria and their application; representativeness of community representatives on
LCSC and TMB; and the effectiveness of the monitoring and evaluation program.
Monitoring of financial aspects of MBIFCT operations (internal controls and external audits)
will be as described in Technical Annex 4, with annual audits, as well as an interim audit after
the first six months.



- 10-
(6)    Mid-term review: A mid-term review will be carried out after Year 2.
Conditions of effectiveness
27. In summary, the following are conditions of project effectiveness:
(1)    Finalization of Trust Administration Manual, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 15);
(2)    Submission for Bank review of first year work plans for the TAU and for the research and park
management components (para. 18);
(3)    Implementation of the resettlement plan for people moved from the BINP, as specified in the side
letter to the Grant Agreement (para. 27(2)).
(4)    TMB ratification of investment strategy, satisfactory to the Bank, and appointment of assets
manager (para. 27(3)); and
(5)    USAID formal approval of an agreement to fund the Trust's administration costs for an initial two
years.
Environmental and Social Impact
28. The project has been assigned Environmental Assessment Category B. It is expected to have a positive
environmental impact through improved park management, reduction of utilization pressures on the parks and
more positive community attitudes toward conservation. Nevertheless, there is a risk of unintended negative
environmental and social impacts associated with: (i) actions undertaken for management of the BINP and
MGNP, whether or not they are directly supported by the Trust, and (ii) individual community projects funded
by the Trust. The park management plan for BINP was reviewed (and that for MGNP will be reviewed) by the
Bank to ensure that they are consistent with relevant Bank policies (esp. Operational Directives on Wildlands,
Indigenous Peoples and Involuntary Resettlement), and the GOU's responsibilities to manage the areas
accordingly are included in the MOU between UNP and MBIFCT, which was reviewed at negotiations. The
Trust Administration Manual includes requirements and procedures for environmental and social assessment of
community and park management projects as part of the criteria for project selection and monitoring. The TAC
will screen all projects and indicate what if any environmental or social assessment is required. The TAU will
then assist the project proposers to arrange for this assessment, drawing upon its technical assistance budget as
needed. The overall Monitoring and Evaluation program will review the appropriateness and effectiveness of
these assessments (Technical Annex 7).
29. Technical Annexes I and 6 and the project working paper on socio-cultural issues describe the importance
of the two forests to local communities and the economic impacts of their loss of access to forest resources with
their gazettement as national parks. The proposed project represents an attempt to mitigate these impacts by
providing direct economic benefits and alternative sources or substitutes for key forest products. While all of
the surrounding communities have suffered to some degree, the impact appears to have been greatest on the
Batwa in the area, a group of about 700-1,000 indigenous (former) forest dwellers, who were most dependent
upon the forests for their livelihoods. They are currently a very marginalized and generally disadvantaged,
landless group which is discriminated against by others and poorly represented by the dominant social and
political structures. Therefore, administration of the Trust must include special provisions to ensure that the
interests and needs of the Batwa are addressed. The measures to be taken are described in the IPP (which has
been reviewed and approved by the Bank). These include a mechanism for ensuring that they are represented in
the decision-making structure of the Trust, measures to help them articulate their needs and to ensure that an



- 11 -
appropriate portion of the funding goes to benefit them and preferential opportunities to harvest forest resources
consistent with the park management plan. The TAU will have special responsibilities to work with the Batwa
community to enable them to participate in and benefit from the Trust. This will be reflected in the TAU work
plans, which will be implemented in cooperation with USAID and CARE (e.g. further social and economic
studies and community organization activities as described in Technical Annex 6).
30. Implementation of the BINP management plan will require compensation of about 100 households presently
cultivating plots in a small area of the park, including resettlement of a small number residing within the park.
Compensation and resettlement will be carried out according to Bank policies. The draft resettlement plan was
reviewed at negotiations and has been finalized in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and will be
implemented prior to effectiveness, in accordance with the side letter to the Grant Agreement.
Benefits and Risks
31. The main benefits of the project will result from improved conservation of the BINP and MGNP and their
biological diversity, through improved park management supported by targeted research, and as a result of
reduced pressure on forest resources and changes in community attitudes. As noted above (paras. 5-6), in the
absence of an effective conservation program these forests would very likely disappear, or be substantially
reduced in size and degraded in just a few years. Specific benefits resulting from their preservation would
include: (1) lowering the probability of the drastic reduction or loss of the mountain gorilla population and
other endemic, rare or endangered species as a result of maintaining and possibly increasing the quality and
extent of their habitat; (2) continued provision of environmental services (particularly water catchment and
reduced soil erosion); (3) long-term economic gains for the community through ensuring that use of forest
resources is established on a sustainable basis; and (4) economic gains through development of compatible and
complementary economic enterprises (including tourism).8
32. In addition to the biological, environmental and economic benefits, the project would have benefits
associated with strengthening local and community institutions and building the capacity of UNP to manage
national parks, including greater involvement of local communities.
33. The main risks relate to: (1) failure of this innovative, participatory decision-making structure to function
as intended, resulting in ineffective or inappropriate use of the funds and/or community dissatisfaction; (2)
failure of the Trust to be financially viable, i.e. to provide a minimum acceptable level of project funding in
perpetuity; (3) the possibility that the future management or condition of the BINP and/or MGNP will not
justify continued support by the GEF; (4) increased pressure on the forests due to immigration of people
attracted by the prospect of benefiting from the project (magnet effect); and (5) social, political and economic
disruptions within the local community resulting from the infusion of money which can directly benefit only a
small proportion of the population.
34. To reduce the risk of institutional failure, the membership of the TMB and LCSC reflects a balance of the
interested "stakeholders" and their responsibilities will be clearly defined in the legal documents establishing the
Trust, in the LCSC constitution and in the Trust Administration Manual. Major decisions such as drawing down
the capital or dissolving the Trust would require a unanimous decision. An independent "midterm" review at the
end of Year 2 will aim to identify and correct any significant flaws in the institutional design. The modest
3/ The MUIENR baseline study analyzed available data relating to the "total economic value" of the BINP to local communities, Uganda
and the world at large, evaluating the uses, option and existence values of the BINP if maintained as a conservation forest compared with
its value, if utilized for agricultural purposes. It concluded that the net present value of the BINP is between about US$216 million (at a 15
percent discount rate) and US$334 million (at a 5 percent discount rate), or approximately 100 times greater than the expected agricultural
output following conversion. For details, see Working Paper No. 2 on Ecological, Conservation and Economic Aspects, and MUIENR
Baseline Study (in Project File).



- 12 -
funding levels which will be available in the early years of the project have the advantage of reducing the
number of project proposals to be processed and the overall task of allocating and disbursing the money, which
could overwhelm the Trust administration mechanism and the recipient groups. As the TAU and communities
gain in experience, their capacity to deal effectively with larger amounts of money should grow.
35. If the rates of return earned through investment of the capital are too low, the Trust will not be able to
maintain the real value of the capital while generating an adequate income stream in perpetuity. As highest
priority is given to providing a steady, reliable stream of project benefits, in this extreme case, the Trust Deed
would permit the Trustees to draw down the capital, and the Trust would in effect convert to a sinking fund. It
could nevertheless continue to meet its objectives for many years (e.g. about 25 years in the low-case scenario in
Annex 4). USAID support for administration costs for at least the first two years (with a possible extension for a
third year anticipated), will permit a modest increase in the capital base and give time for investment markets to
improve. It is also anticipated that, if the MBIFCT proves to be successful in the first few years as a mechanism
for community conservation and participatory decision-making, it should be possible to attract additional
contributions to the capital (from GET or other sources) to ensure financial sustainability.
36. The MOU documents GOU's commitment to maintain and manage the BINP and MGNP in a manner
consistent with GEF/conservation objectives. Nevertheless, because of UNP's limited resources and capacity,
there is a risk that it will not be able to fulfill this responsibility and that the biological values of the BINP and
MGNP will deteriorate as a result of inappropriate or ineffective management and/or pressures associated with
high and growing population densities in surrounding areas. The project will reduce this risk by providing direct
support to assist UNP in managing the parks, and will reduce pressures by providing economic alternatives and
by promoting popular support for conservation. In addition, it is expected that the GOU capacity for
conservation and management of protected areas will be strengthened through ongoing projects, as well as future
projects such as the proposed Bank-assisted "Protected Areas Management and Sustainable Use" project and
related assistance by other donors. As a last resort, the Trust Deed will include mechanisms for dissolving the
Trust if circumstances change such that it cannot fulfill its objectives.
37. Injecting a substantial amount of money into the local economy creates a risk of social disruption and could
also serve to attract people into the area, potentially increasing pressures on the parks. To minimize these risks,
project selection criteria would allow funding of projects at a considerable distance from the park boundaries if
they have a demonstrable positive conservation impact, and also by ensuring that the level of funds available is
modest, particularly in the beginning. While significant in terms of their potential to catalyze productive,
environmentally sound economic activities, the funds available each year for community projects will be
modest, and thus less likely to cause disruption or contention. The TAU and LCSC will have the primary
responsibility to manage community expectations, and to inform and educate community members regarding the
expected "ripple effects" whereby the project will benefit a much larger proportion of the community than those
who are members of community groups directly receiving project funds.
January 24, 1995
Washington, D.C.
Attachments



SCHEDULE A
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
BWINDI IMPENETRABLE NATIONAL PARK
AND
MGAHINGA GORILLA NATIONAL PARK CONSERVATION PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
Local     Foreign     Total
----------(US$ '000) ---
A Subgrant Program
1. Community Development          240           0       240
2. Research                        40          40        80
3. Park Management                 80           0        80
Sub-Total                 360          40       400
B. Trust Administration                  800          600     1,400
C. Offshore Trust Management
1. Management Fee                   0         221       221
2. Recapitalization                 0         289       289
Sub-Total                   0         510       510
Total PROJECT COSTS                     1,160       1,150     2,310



SCHEDULE A
Page 2 of 2
Proposed Financing Plan
USAID    GEF Grant   Total
Proceeds
----------   (US$ '000)--------------
A. Subgrant Program
1. Community Development          90         150       240
2. Research                         -          80       80
3. Park Management                  -          80       80
Sub-Total                  90         310      400
B. Trust Administration                  800         600     1,400
C. Offshore Trust Management
1. Management Fee                   -        221       221
2. Recapitalization                 -         289      289
Sub-Total                   -         510      510
Total PROJECT COSTS                      890       1,4209    2,310
2/ Figures have been rounded.



SCHEDULE B
Project Procurement Arrangements
(not applicable)
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of GEF Grant
(US$ million)
IBRD FISCAL YEAR
1995   1996   1997   1998  1999
Annual          4.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0
Cumulative      4.0    4.0      4.0    4.0    4.0
Closing Date: December 31, 1999



SCHEDULE C
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time Taken to Prepare ........................... 19 months
(b) Prepared by the Ugandan Task Force (CARE-Uganda, WWF, MUIENR, Institute of Social Research
and ITFC) with Bank assistance
(c) First Bank Mission ........................... March 1991
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure ........................... September 20, 1993
(e) Negotiations ........................... March 1994
(0 Planned Date of Effectiveness ..................... March 1995
(g) List of Relevant PCRs and PPARS  ............. .............. None



SCHEDULE D
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(n of S_pmbor 30, 1994)
OnM (1) Linn ad thrty five (35) Credits fuly disbuoed,               946.89
of which SECALa, SALs and Program Loans/Credits:                   (446.17)
Cr. 14340    1984   Uganda  TAS n                                     15.00
Cr.18030    1987   Ugnda  Fouth Highway                               18.00     1.49
Cr.18240    1987   Ugda  Foresy Rehabilitation                        13.00     0.36
Cr.18690    1988   Uganda  South West Ag. Rehab.                      10.00     5.63
Cr.18930    1988   Ugada  Sugar Rehabilitation                        24.90     4.15
Cr.19340    1983    Ugnda  Health Roc.                                42.50    11.15
Cr. 19620    1939   Ugnd   Public Entorprioe                          15.00     4.50
Cr. 19650    1989   Ugand   Education IV                              22.00     7.62
Cr.19910    1989   Upada Telecom II                                   52.30     6.33
Cr.20880    1990   Upnda  Poverty & Soc. Cost                         28.00     5.40
Cr.21240    1990   Ugada  Water Supply nI                             60.00    58.47
Cr.21760    1991   Ugnda  Livestock                                   21.00    18.45
Cr.21900 a/  1991   Ugnda  Ag. Sector Adj. Credit                    100.00     8.45
Cr.22060    1991   Ugnda  Urban 1                                     28.70    22.08
Cr.22680    1991   Uanda  Power m                                    125.00    98.93
Cr.23150    1992   Uganda  Enterprie Developmet                       65.60    68.09
Cr.23620    1992   Ugada  Northrn Reconstruct.                        71.20    65.54
Cr.24180    1993   Ugand   Econ. & Fimacial Mangement                 29.00    17.18
Cr.24240    1993   Uganda  Agric. Exteuion Prog.                      15.79    12.42
Cr.24460    1993   Uganda  Agric. Rs. & Trg.                          25.04    22.35
Cr.24930    1993   Ugnda  Primary Educ.                               52.60    50.73
Cr.24960 a/  1993   Uganda  Fimaial Sector Adjstment Cr.             100.00    62.07
Cr.24961 a/  1994   Uganda  Fincial Sector Adjustment Cr.              1.05     1.12
Cr.25830 b/  1994   Uganda  Small Towns Water                         42.30    44.60
Cr.25870 b/  1994   Uganda Transport Rehab.                           75.00    79.96
Cr.26030    1994   Uganda  Sexual Trans. Infections                   50.00    53.26
Cr.26080 s/  1994   Uganda  SAC nI                                    80.00    84.80
Cr.26090    1994   Uganda  Cottoo Sector Development                  14.00    14.67
Total                                   8.40    2143.87   829.80
of which repaid                        8.40     40.57
TOtal held by Bank & IDA                0.00    2103.30
Amount sold     8.32
of which repaid 3.32
TOTAL Undisbursed                                         829.80
a/ Indicates SALJSECAL or Progrm Loan Credit.
b/ Not yet effective.



SCiULL]
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN UGANDA
(a of September 30, 1994)
1993        AEF-Cloverpm          C-ing Prewerv & Process            0.85    0.00     0.85
1993        AEF-NGE-GE            Cning Preerv & Proes               0.65    0.00     0.65
1993        AEF-NILE ROSES        Agriculual & Livestock Prod.       0.30    0.00     0.30
1994        AEF-RWENZORI          Ral Estate & Busino  Serve         0.81    0.19     1.00
1994        AEF-SKYBLUE           Hotel & Rturants                   0.51    0.00     0.51
1934,1993   DFCU                  Devlopnt Fiac Companes             0.00    0.98     0.98
1993        JUBILEE               Insourace com   s                  0.00    0.10     0.10
1965        MULCO                 Spinning, Weaving & Finishg        4.32    0.71     5.03
1984        TAMTECO               Mfg of Food Producs NEC            1.62    0.00     1.62
1972        TPS                   Tourism Services                   1.11    0.00     1.11
1984        Ugnda Supr            Cocoa Choooktas, Sugpr             3.00    0.00     3.00
1985        Ugand Tea             Food Products NEC                   m      0.00       1
Total gro commitmts                                    20.98    1.98    22.96
Lees: Repayments, cancellatios,
exchag adjustmnts,
term   tious and  sa                                 9.02    0.71    9.73
Total Commtments ww held by EFC:                        11.96    1.27    13.23
Total Undisbursed                                        1.72    0.00     1.72
Total Outstading IFC                                    10.24    1.27    11.51



Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
Bwindi Impenetrable National Park
and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park
Description, Significance, Threats and Management
SUMMARY
1.    The central objective of the project is the long-term conservation of the flora, fauna and
ecosystems of the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park (BINP) and Mgahinga Gorilla National Park
(MGNP). In addition to being the home range of the highly endangered mountain gorilla (Gorilla
gorilla berengii), these parks represent important examples the rapidly dwindling East African
Afro-montane habitat, which has been identified as the rarest vegetation type and among the
highest conservation priorities in Africa (e.g. number one priority for bird conservation in Africa
according to the International Council for Bird Protection). At the same time, they are located in
one of the most densely populated areas of Africa and are therefore under considerable pressure
from agricultural encroachment and from unsustainable exploitation of their biological resources.
2.    In view of their recognized international biological significance, The GOU elevated both
areas from Forest and Game Reserves to the status of National Parks in 1991. The implications
of this action included both a transfer of institutional responsibility from the Forest and Game
Departments to the Uganda National Parks (UNP), and a complete ban on a number of economic
activities (e.g. selective logging, gold mining, harvesting of non-timber forest products) which
were permitted previously. The GOU national parks policy is currently undergoing revision,
however, and in the future is expected to allow for limited, sustainable use of selected forest
products by local communities in designated multiple-use zones. This prospect has been
enthusiastically welcomed by people living around the BINP and MGNP, most of whom
apparently are in favor of conserving the forests (recognizing their value, e.g. as water
catchments), but were opposed to their gazettement as national parks specifically because of the
loss of access to forest products. In fact, however, the communities' expectations in this must be
tempered, as the ecologically sustainable levels of off-take are sure to be very modest from these
small forest areas. Instead, long-term conservation will require emphasis on the development of
alternative sources of products and income in place of this extractive approach. Income from eco-
tourism is regarded as one important aspect, both direct (communities sharing in park revenues)
and indirect (development of local tourism-related enterprises). Unlike many protected areas in
Africa, the BINP and MGNP have very strong prospects for significant tourism earnings due to
the tremendous "drawing power" of the mountain gorillas.
3.     A number of externally-supported conservation programs are already operating in the
BINP/MGNP area, including: (1) the USAID-funded, CARE-executed "Development Through
Conservation" (CARE/DTC) project; (2) the USAID/World Wildlife Fund-



Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
supported Impenetrable Forest Conservation Project (now institutionalized as the Mbarara
University Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation, ITFC); (3) the regional International Gorilla
Conservation Project (IGCP) jointly supported by WWF, the African Wildlife Foundation and the
Flora and Fauna Preservation Society); and (4) the Mgahinga Gorilla National Park project
(MGNPP) supported by the German Animal Protection Society (GAPS). These long-standing
projects provide both technical and financial assistance to UNP for a range of activities, including
development of park management plans, development of a gorilla tourism plan including
community revenue-sharing, training of UNP staff, meeting recurrent operating expenses,
ecological and social research, and community extension and education in conservation and
sustainable agriculture. The staff of these projects have played and will continue to play a major
role in the development and implementation of the MBIFCT, which represents a long-term,
participatory funding mechanism to help support the community development and park
management initiatives which they have helped to define and develop over the years.
4.     The biological and economic significance, history, threats to and management of the BINP
and MGNP are described in detail in a project working paper available in the project files. The
main points and conclusions are summarized below.
THE BWINDI IMPENETRABLE NATIONAL PARK--DESCRIPTION AND HISTORY
5.     The BINP lies on the edge of the western Rift Valley, at the highest point of the Rukiga
Highlands of Uganda (Figure 1). Once part of a large forest covering south-western Uganda,
eastern Zaire, Rwanda and northern Burundi, the 331 km2 park is now a forest island surrounded
by cultivated, densely populated land. It covers a wide range of altitude, from 1160 m to 2600 m
elevation, and is one of the largest remaining tracts of forest in East Africa containing a
continuum of montane and lowland forest. Due to its uniqueness it is being considered for listing
as a IUCN/UNESCO World Heritage Site. The southern and northern sectors of what is now
BINP were first gazetted in 1932 as Crown Forest Reserves, covering 207 km2. Over the next 60
years the areas were combined and additional reserves incorporated to create a 320.8 km2 area
which was gazetted as an Animal Sanctuary (for protection of the gorillas) as well as a Forest
Reserve and therefore under dual management by the Forest and Game Departments. In 1991 it
was gazetted as a national park, under the management of the UNP, and a 10 km2 area (the Mbwa
River tract) incorporated.
6.    In addition to its broad continuum of elevation, the BINP is believed to be a Pleistocene
refugium, that is an area which has enjoyed an unbroken evolutionary history untouched by
glaciation. These two factors contribute to a great species diversity and high level of endemism,
making the BINP one of the richest biodiversity areas in Africa. For example, it contains at least
120 species of mammals, 330 bird species, 55 reptiles and amphibians and over 200 butterflies.
This faunal diversity includes 10 primates, including approximately 300 mountain gorillas,
representing half the total world population of this sub-species (the other half is found in the
Virungas Volcano range, including the MGNP--see



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
Para. 8 below). While botanical surveys are far from complete, the BINP is believed to be the
richest in Uganda in terms of trees, with over 190 identified species including 10 endemics. It is
also very unusual in Uganda in having almost no invasion of exotic trees. The BINP vegetation
represents a climax ecological community overall, but it is estimated that only about 10% of the
area is completely undisturbed, while about 60% has been heavily logged and 30% selectively
logged. Fires, goldmining, harvest of non-timber products and some agricultural encroachment
and clearing have also had impacts in the past by altering species compositions, distributions and
population structures and polluting surface waters. The forest is now in a process of recovery as
these activities have largely stopped.
THE MGAHINGA GORILLA NATIONAL PARK--DESCRIPTION AND HISTORY
7.     The 33.7 km2 MGNP represents most of the Uganda portion of the Virungas volcanic
mountain range, contiguous with the 7500 km2 Virungas National Park in Zaire (a World Heritage
Site) and the 45 km2 Parc National des Volcans in Rwanda (Figure 2). Its long borders with
these countries, which have recently been experiencing considerable political conflict, has led to a
major influx of refugees to the Ugandan side. The entire area which is now the MGNP was
originally proclaimed as a Gorilla Game Sanctuary in 1930. The Mgahinga Forest Reserve, with
the same boundaries, was established in 1940. Over the next few decades the boundaries of the
Sanctuary and Reserve underwent a number of changes, with successive reductions and
expansions in area. In this process, an area of about 10 km2 was settled and cleared for
cultivation, which destroyed most of the natural vegetation between the 8000 ft and 9000 ft
contours. This area, now referred to as "Zone 2" of the MGNP, was included when the MGNP
was gazetted in 1991, and the residents (about 1800 people) were evicted with compensation for
their permanent crops and structures.
8.    The Virungas ecosystem represents one of a collection of remnants of Afro-montaine
forest along the Kivu ridge which extends from the northern end of Lake Tananyika to the
Ruewnzori mountains. It is unusual in occupying an area of volcanic deposits with very rich soil,
while most of the other remaining forest patches are set on pre-Cambrian rocks. The vegetation
of the MGNP falls largely into the Afro-alpine category, which is a distinctive and unique
ecological community although low in species diversity relative to the Afro-montane areas such as
BINP. However, the MGNP is one of the few areas in the country which contains both Afro-
montane and Afro-alpine vegetation. The Virungas range is best known and appreciated for its
population of mountain gorillas, which move amongst the three countries. At present, no gorilla
families reside permanently within the MGNP, but up to 50 individuals use the territory for part
of the year. The remaining fauna and flora of the MGNP have not been studied as extensively as
those of the BINP, but a number of other species of conservation importance are known to inhabit
the park, including the golden guenon monkey (endemic and altitudinally restricted in the
Virungas), numerous rare mammals particularly in the wetland areas, and eleven regionally
endemic species of birds.
9.     The level of commercial hardwood logging in the MGNP has been less than in the



Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
BINP, but there has been considerable exploitation of other products, particularly bamboo which
is a much more predominant part of the vegetation in this area. The greatest ecological impact
has been the clearing and cultivation (with terracing) and introduction of exotic trees such as
Eucalyptus and Acacia (Black Wattle) in what is now Zone 2, where park management will focus
on restoring the natural vegetation.
USE OF FOREST RESOURCES
10.   As Forest Reserves, the BINP and MGNP areas represented important sources of many
highly valued timber and non-timber forest products for local communities, as well as cash
income from labor (pitsawing, board carrying), although only a small portion of total revenues
from logging benefited the local economy or even, apparently, the national economy, as Forest
Department estimates indicate that as much as 90% of the valuable hardwood timber from the
Bwindi forest was reportedly smuggled out of the country over the past few decades. The
traditional importance of forest products to local communities, particularly the Batwa (former
forest dwellers) is discussed in Annex 6 and the project working paper on socio-cultural issues.
The economic importance and ecological impacts of exploitation of minor forest products are
discussed in detail by Cunningham (1992) and Cunningham et al. (1993). These studies were
commissioned as a first step toward initiating sustainable use of selected forest products in
proposed multiple use zones in the BINP and MGNP, respectively. A summary and analysis of
data concerning the "Total Economic Value" of the Bwindi Forest to local communities, Uganda
and the world at large is provided in Chapter 2 of the MUIENR Baseline Study (1993) undertaken
as part of project preparation. The authors attempted to quantify (where possible) and compare
the consumptive and non-consumptive use value, environmental services value, option value and
existence value of the area if maintained as a conservation forest vs. if it were converted to
cultivation.
11.   While gazettement as a national park has reduced or eliminated peoples' access to these
traditional resources and sources of income, there is now growing expectation of income from
tourism, particularly gorilla tracking. Gorilla tracking was initiated in BINP in the Spring of
1993, with single habituated group receiving a maximum of 4 visitors a day each paying $100
(now reduced to $80). Despite the poor access, minimal facilities, difficult terrain and dense
vegetation, the activity has proven very popular, with all openings filled on most days. The
IGCP has prepared a gorilla tourism development plan which projects earnings of between
$321,000 and $1,348,000 per year from gorilla tracking fees alone by 1996. A revenue sharing
program is being initiated, with 20% of gorilla tracking fees to be passed to the communities
surrounding BINP (probably utilizing the MBIFCT's LCSC as a channel). The MGNP is not yet
open to tourism, due to security considerations, but is expected to benefit from a similar program
in the future. The ecological restoration of Zone 2 is expected to attract gorilla families which, it
is hoped, may once again take up permanent residence on the Ugandan side.



Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
PARK MANAGEMENT
12.   Though gazetted in 1932, the first official management plan for the Bwindi Forest
Reserve was not adopted until 1961. At that time the main management objectives were
preservation of forest cover to sustain stream flow and maintain favorable climatic conditions,
preservation of habitat conditions favorable for the gorillas, and production of the maximum
economic sustained yield of timber consistent with meeting the first two objectives. Management
interventions included a long-term rotation system for logging, and "enrichment planting," or
"forest refining," which involved destroying many "undesirable" (non-commercial) trees in an
effort to create more room for a few highly valued species. The nomadic Batwa were permitted
to live inside the Reserve and local residents had free access to cattle watering sites and to all
forest resources other than commercial hardwoods. Protective measures ensured that the forest
boundaries were maintained, but its condition deteriorated under this regime as mining and
pitsawing were difficult to control, populations of several plant species desired for local use were
significantly reduced, and the "refining" also reduced the biodiversity of the flora.
13.   The 1961 plan officially expired in 1971 but the management practices continued largely
unchanged until a new, 2-year interim management plan was approved in 1991. The 1991-93
plan represented an evolution in management philosophy toward greater emphasis on broad
biodiversity conservation and the need for sustainable utilization and benefit to local communities.
Implementation involved a temporary cessation of all logging and mining and also of the practice
of "forest refining," and designation of zones for strict nature reserves, low-impact use such as
tourism development, buffer zones to serve as migration corridors, and for selective logging in
the future. Under Ugandan law, gazettement of the area as a national park closed off local
communities' legal access to all forest resources. However, in anticipation of the different
orientation of the revised national parks policy and the next BINP 5-year management plan,
limited use of some resources and some areas is already being phased in (e.g. beekeeping and
some collection of medicinal and basketry plants).
14.   The "1993-1995 BINP Interim Management Plan" has been developed through a
consultative process with extensive involvement of conservation groups active in the area and, to
a slightly lesser but still substantial extent, local community representatives. Workshops were
held in December, 1992, and in March and June, 1993, to review successive drafts which were
prepared by a working group including both UNP and NGO members. This represents a
significant departure from the previous approach to park management planning. The final draft
was approved by the UNP Board of Trustees by early 19>4. It places strong emphasis on
maintenance of biological diversity and physical and ecological processes, on community
participation in park management and benefits, on promoting tourism as a non-consumptive
economic use, and further development of the zoning concept including designated multiple use
zones. It also extends UNP activities beyond the park boundaries to promote conservation
awareness and cooperation through community extension programs.



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
15.   The process of preparation of a management plan for MGNP is underway, with the
community consultation, collection of baseline data and a recently completed study of the nature
and status of species traditionally used by local communities (to evaluate the potential for
sustainable use/multiple use zones as in the BINP). UNP proposes to follow the same
participatory approach as was used for the BINP plan. The process of development, consultation
and approval of the MGNP plan is expected to benefit from the experience gained through the
BINP plan and thus to move more quickly. The target date for completion of a draft plan is the
end of December, 1994. In the meantime, park management is directed and implemented by
UNP, with extensive support and involvement of the GAPS-funded project. The park is
effectively closed to tourism (due to the security situation), and to all use by local communities
with the important exception of highly controlled access to a few year-round water sources. It is
likely that the CARE/DTC project will increase its activities in the MGNP area and play a greater
role in influencing the park management approach in the future.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
Trust Funds as a Conservation Funding Mechanism
1.     The rationale for using the GEF grant to support conservation of the BINP and MGNP is
that a trust fund can be an effective mechanism to provide a long-term financial commitment for
conservation activities. The structure and definition of a conservation trust fund will vary
depending on the individual legal, political and institutional circumstances of a particular country
and the specific objectives.
2.     The long-term nature of a trust fund is particularly important when funding recurrent costs
and establishing viable grant-making programs. Reliable funding can improve program stability,
long-range-planning, training and recruitment of personnel, and the overall sustainability of the
program. The net result can be more effective conservation and a visible link between the
protected areas conservation and the economic benefits to relevant local communities.
3.     The Trustee, or frequently a Board of Trustees, has fiduciary responsibility to follow the
terms of the trust. These terms are defined in a trust document or similar legal agreement which
describes the intended beneficiaries and activities which can receive funds from the trust.
Typically, the Board will select a financial institution to manage the trust fund's financial assets
on its behalf. Thus, in effect, the trustee role is divided into two parts - a management board
which approves projects and activities for funding and a financial trustee which invests the trust's
capital and disburses money as instructed by the Board. The Board of Trustees will likely
delegate certain powers to a small staff, technical committees and others as needed. However, the
Board retains ultimate oversight and accountability for all of the trust's activities.
4.     Conservation trusts can finance many things: surveys of flora and fauna, local community
projects, ecological monitoring, training for park rangers, administrative support to an NGO, or
whatever falls within the Board's interpretation of the guidelines of the trust document. In the
process of financing such activities, a trust fund can offer important advantages:
(1)    provide reliable long-term financing for conservation and community development
activities;
(2)    receive large grants (e.g. from GEF) and subsequently "retail" these funds to
smaller projects through a participatory decision-making process;
(3)    enhance local capacity and opportunity to design and implement conservation
activities through a decentralized decision-making process which includes local
communities in and around the specific protected areas;
(4)    serve as a catalyst to attract additional financial and human resource commitment
from within and outside the country to protected areas' management. It is
important that a conservation trust not be perceived as external support which
somehow reduces the government's own domestic budget allocation to protected
areas' management;



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
(5)    coordinate donor assistance. (This appears particularly important in Uganda as
there is currently much donor assistance which could be better coordinated for
more favorable impact on the conservation sector);
(6)    receive and administer the distribution of revenues generated from tourists and
other park uses (e.g. gorilla tourism in Bwindi and perhaps in about a of couple
years time in Mgahinga);
(7)    serve as a potential model for management assistance to other protected areas with
the participation of their respective local communities;
(8)    exist beyond the typical short-term time horizon of many donor financed
"projects" (Despite much current donor assistance in Uganda, this could decline
quickly if donors must turn to other priorities. However, a conservation trust
would remain).
5.    In sum, a conservation trust holds much promise; it is much more than a long-term
financing mechanism since there are many institutional ramifications. Thus, the trust must be
carefully crafted so as to complement existing institutional arrangements for management of
national parks in the country.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 14
The Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
Organizational Structure and Operation
SUMMARY
1.    The MBIFCT is a private organization, established by Deed under Republic of Uganda
trust law, to manage and administer a fund to promote the long-term conservation of the Bwindi
Impenetrable National Park and the Mgahinga Gorilla National Park and their flora and fauna.
The GEF grant of $ US 4 million (SDR 2.9 million) comprises the initial capital fund, which will
be invested to generate income for disbursement on a quarterly basis (see Annex 4). The parks
themselves are the legal beneficiaries of the MBIFCT, but the Trust's stated objectives include
providing benefits to local communities as a means of encouraging and assisting them to
contribute to these conservation objectives. The most innovative aspect of the MBIFCT is that it
is jointly nwned and controlled by representatives of the GOU, local and international
conservation/wildlife NGOs, and the local communities surrounding the two parks. The
institutional structure of the MBIFCT is designed to balance the influence of the various
stakeholders and to maximize community ownership by decentralizing a significant part of the
decision-making responsibility.
2.     The MBIFCT organizational chart is shown in Figure 1 of this Annex. The component
bodies a-" their responsibilities, composition, operational modalities and interactions, which are
summarized below, are set out in detail in the Trust Administration Manual, which is available in
the project file (see Annex 3-A for the Manual's Table of Contents). The text of the Manual,
which will govern the Trust's operati-ns was reviewed at negotiations and will be agreed prior to
project effectiveness, and can then only be altered by the TMB (subject to Bank approval for the
first five years).
3.     The majority of people involved in the operation of the Trust will serve on a voluntary
basis and receive modest honoraria in return. Full-time staff hired by the MBIFCT will be
limited to the staff of the Trust Administration Unit (Administrator, Accountant, 2 Community
Development Workers, support staff). There will be a small Kampala-based secretariat for the
TMB (one secretary/accountant and one support staff). The Trust administrative budget also
includes a fund to engage short-term consultants as needed.
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
1. The Trust Management Board (TMB)
Overview and Functions
4.     The TMB is the overall decision-making body for the MBIFCT and its voting members
are the legal trustees of the fund. Its objectives and responsibilities are set out in the Trust Deed
and its Bye-laws. While the TMB will delegate many specific responsibilities to the other bodies



Annex 3
Page 2 of 14
(e.g. assets manager/overseas financial trustee, LCSC, TAC, TAU), it retains ultimate oversight
and accountability for all MBIFCT funds and activities.
5.     The TMB has engaged a professional assets manager (investment firm) to invest the
capital fund, based on an investment strategy approved by the TMB (and, for the first five years,
by the World Bank)l/. It has established a Local Community Steering Committee (with the
local communities identifying their chosen representatives) and a Technical Advisory Committee,
and will approve their operating guidelines (set out in the Trust Administration Manual),
modifying these as it deems necessary based on operational experience gained over time. The
TMB will establish a Trust Administration Unit, to which it will delegate responsibility for day-
to-day administration of the Trust income. The TMB will also manage the critical institutional
relationships between MBIFCT and other institutions (e.g. Uganda National Parks, GOU, donors,
etc.), as discussed below.
Composition
6.     To promote cooperation and balance among the various "stakeholders," the 9 voting
members and Trustees of the TMB consists of representatives of the key parties with a recognized
interest in the conservation and management of the BINP and MGNP:
(1)    government agencies (one representative each from Uganda National Parks and
the Conservation Section of the Forest Department),
(2)   local communities (one representative each from the three administrative Districts
bordering the parks--Kisoro, Rukungiri and Kabale--to be selected by the LCSC
from among the community representatives on its membership),
(3)   local and international NGOs (one representative each, from organizations actively
involved in conservation and sustainable development programs in the project
area--initially the Wildlife Clubs of Uganda and CARE-Uganda, respectively), and
(4)    a research institution (one representative of an institution with an active research
program relevant to the conservation and management of the BINP and/or MGNP-
-initially the Mbarara University Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation), and
(5)   the tourism industry (one representative--initially from the Uganda Tourist
Association)
7.    In addition, there will be ex-officio (non-voting) members representing parties which do
not need to be directly involved in the decision-making of the Trust, but have a specific need for
ongoing knowledge of its operations. There are five ex-officio members initially, although the
TMB may decide to add others later if appropriate:
1/ The TMB is expected to engage or co-opt a financial advisor to advise, assist and educate its
membership on financial management matters



Annex 3
Page 3 of 14
(1)    a representative of the international donor community actively providing support
for conservation in the areas (initially USAID, which is supporting the ongoing
"Development Through Conservation" program and will also support the
establishment and operation of the TAU for the first three years. Both of these
activities are essential to the effective implementation of the Trust in its early
years2/,
(2)    a representative of the Ministry of Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities (parent
ministry of UNP, and therefore responsible for advising the GOU regarding the
implementation of the program and the status of the parks),
(3)    a representative of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (responsible
for overseeing all foreign assistance to Uganda),
(4)    representative of the Solicitor General in the Ministry of Justice (responsible for
advising on legal aspects of the Trust and addressing any legal challenges which
might be brought in relation to its operations), and
(5)   the Trust Administrator.
8.     Each of the institutions represented above is responsible for designating its own
representative to serve on the TMB, based on guidelines presented in the Trust Administration
Manual. Thirteen individuals have been identified to serve as the initial members of the TMB and
identified as such in the declaration of Trust (see Annex 3-B). These individuals will serve for an
initial term of two years with the possibility of extension. In the future, TMB members will serve
three-year terms, but with a mechanism to stagger the terms to provide continuity. The Trust By-
Laws specify the procedures for replacing TMB members, with existing members legally
responsible for replacing themselves based on the nomination of the group or institution which
they represent.
Operational Modalities
9.     The Trust Deed and Bye-laws are the legal documents establishing and governing the
MBIFCT. They are available in the project file. The Deed creates a legal "personality" for the
Trust and defines its objectives, sets out the responsibilities and powers of the TMB and addresses
specific legal questions such as the conditions under which the Trust may be dissolved and what
would become of its assets in that case. The Bye-laws provide the operational guidelines for the
Trust, such as the composition of the TMB; the means of appointing members and their terms of
tenure; members' functions and responsibilities in relation to decision-making, administration;
financial management including appointment and monitoring of the assets manager and
undertaking audits, review of documents and reports and legal responsibilities; and procedures for
meetings including voting rules. The TMB will meet at least twice a year to review project
proposals forwarded to it by the TAU and to carry out other business. Most decisions will be by
simple majority (a quorum to be 6 of the 9 voting members), but certain decisions require
2/ The World Bank, as Trustee of the GET, has declined to be represented on the TMB but may
participate as an observer



Annex 3
Page 4 of 14
unanimous vote by the full TMB. These include any changes to the Trust Deed, invasion of the
capital fund, amendments to the composition of the Board and dissolution of the Trust.
2. The Local Community Steering ConlInittee (LCSC)
Overview and Functions
10.   The LCSC ensures that a significant part of decision making for the MBIFCT is carried
out by those who are most directly concerned because they live and work in the project area.
Together with the TAU, the LCSC will be the principle means by which the MBIFCT interacts
with local communities. The LCSC will screen all proposals for grants for community
development projects. It will be authorized to approve small grants (up to $1000) directly and to
forward proposals for larger grants to the TMB for approval3/. It will also play a direct role in
internal financial control as a co-signatory (together with the Trust Administrator) on the TAU
bank account in Kabale.
11.   Less formally, the LCSC will help raise awareness in the community and will serve as a
contact point and source of information about the Trust as well as a mechanism to provide
feedback from local communities to the TMB. To ensure linkage and continuity, three
(community representative) members of the LCSC, will be selected by the full LCSC to serve as
voting members of the TMB.
Composition
12.   Like the TMB, the LCSC includes the three main interest groups: government, local
communities and NGOs. Its composition is designed to meet several key objectives:
(1)   to provide fair representation of the diverse communities and social groups in the
MBIFCT catchment area;
(2)   to ensure balance of power among the various stakeholders;
(3)   to help mobilize community support for conservation generally and projects
specifically funded by MBIFCT, to insure that funded projects remain sustainable
after MBIFCT funding is finished;
(4)   to help maintain the link between economic benefits from the Trust and
conservation of BINP and MGNP (i.e., to avoid a perception of "entitlement"
unconnected with any responsibilities), by involving groups with specific interests
3/ At UNP request, the LCSC may also receive and screen proposals for projects to be funded
through the soon-to-be-implemented UNP revenue sharing (RS) program. Following screening
by the LCSC, proposals for using RS funds will be passed to the relevant Park Management
Advisory Committee for consideration.



Annex 3
Page 5 of 14
in the area and its resources. Such groups can make concrete commitments to
support conservation efforts4/
(5)   to retain sufficient flexibility to accommodate possible changes in local political
structures and stakeholder groups.
13.   Initially, in the absence of "apex" (cross-boundary) community and interest groups in the
area,,the emphasis in selecting community representatives has been on achieving geographic
coverage and balance. This was achieved by requesting each of the 11 RC3's (Sub-counties)
immediately adjacent to the two parks to nominate one representative5/. To achieve a workable
group size and ensure that these representatives do not outweigh the other members of the LCSC,
at any one time only 3 will be voting members and the other 9 non-voting. The 11 individuals
selected are responsible for identifying the initial 3 voting members as well as a system to rotate
that responsibility. The initial LCSC also includes two representatives of local women's group
(one from BINP area, one from MGNP area) and a representative to be selected by the local
Batwa community.
14.   The initial LCSC therefore consists of the following 12 voting and 8 non-voting members
(see Annex 3-C for names of individuals):
- 2 UNP wardens - Wardens in Charge of BINP & MGNP
- 12 Representatives appointed by RC3s (3 voting)
- 2 Representatives of local women's groups
- 1 Representative/spokesperson for Batwa
- 1 Representative of the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation
- 1 Representative of CARE/DTC project
- 1 Representative of International Gorilla Conservation Project
- 1 Representative of Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Project
15.    This "interim" LCSC will serve for two years, during which time the mechanisms for
selecting future community representatives is expected to evolve in two ways. First,
representatives of up to 4 relevant community/interest groups will be added, as groups with
appropriately broad-based support and credibility are identified or formed6/. The TAU will
4/ For example, beekeeper groups have agreed to ensure that their members do not start wildfires
while smoking out bees, in exchange for the right to place hives inside the BINP.
5/ The Resistance Council System is a representational political structure based on an ascending
hierarchy of elected bodies, starting at the village level and going up to the national level. The
RC1 (village), RC2 (parish) and RC3 (sub-county) were identified by community members as the
parties which they most trusted to represent their interests in the LCSC at this time.
6/ Currently, interest groups in the area (e.g. beekeepers, ambulance societies, credit
associations) are not sufficiently integrated to be represented by a single member. For example, a
beekeeper from Nteko parish (west side of BINP) has little interaction with beekeepers in Katojo
parish (east side) since they are more than a day's walk apart with no road service or
telecommunications connecting the two counties. Given Uganda's recent civil and political



Annex 3
Page 6 of 14
actively encourage and promote this. Second, an alternative means for communities to select
their geographic representatives will be sought, which is more independent of the existing political
system. Other changes in the LCSC composition may be needed over time, for example if
currently active international NGOs leave the area and/or others come in. The operational
guidelines for the LCSC, as specified in the Trust Administration Manual, will make allowance
for flexibility for such changes.
Operational Modalities
16.    The responsibilities and operating guidelines for the LCSC are laid out in a Constitution
which is incorporated in the Trust Administration Manual. The topics covered in the Constitution
include: the "catchment area" of the Trust; the composition of the LCSC and formula for
selecting members in future; its functions including approving or forwarding projects to the TMB
depending on size; location and procedure for meetings and voting rules; and selection criteria for
community projects to be funded.
3. The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC)
Overview and Functions
17.   The TAC will assist the TMB in setting priorities for use of MBIFCT funds and
evaluating the technical aspects (ecological/environmental, sociological, economic, overall
feasibility) of project proposals, and provide any other technical advice requested by the TMB.
Its members will screen all proposals referred to it by the TAU for potential negative
environmental or social impacts, and provide in-depth review as requested. The TAC will also
make recommendations to the TAU to engage short-term technical assistance to carry out detailed
studies or evaluations of specific aspects of proposals as needed.
Composition
18.    The TAC is composed of a number of experts in relevant fields, selected by the TMB.
Individuals are selected on the basis of professional merit rather than institutional affiliations.
They are appointed by the TMB for an initial term of three years, renewable for two year terms.
The TMB can add new members to the TAC or remove existing members as it deems
appropriate, and can also co-opt individuals to assist on a short-term basis as needed. It is
expected that TAC members will be Ugandan citizens or residents although short-term advisors on
specific issues may sometimes be sought internationally.
turmoil, it is only recently that interest groups are beginning to reach across villages and sub-
counties.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 14
19.   Initially the TAC includes individuals representing the following fields of expertise:
Tropical forest ecology (up to three members with relevant experience in different and
complementary aspects of the field);
Sociology and community participation and development (one or two members,
including particular expertise relating to Batwa/indigenous forest dwellers);
Economics (particular expertise in development economics and economic analysis of
development projects)
Law (particular experience in business and property law and land tenure issues)
Agriculture and livestock husbandry (two representatives with relevant experience in
small-scale farming and husbandry)
Small-scale finance (particular experience in rural credit, banking and cooperatives)
Local issues
Operational Modalities
20.   The TAC will meet on a regular basis (at least semi-annually, prior to TMB meetings,
more frequently if needed). The members will elect a Chairperson to serve for a two-year term.
The Chairperson will receive proposals from the Trust Administrator and distribute each to at
least two TAC members, who will be responsible for reviewing and summarizing it, leading the
discussion of it at the next TAC meeting and summarizing the TAC opinions and comments in
writing. The proposals will then be passed to the TMB with the TAC comments. The TMB or
TAU can also call upon members of the TAC for general or specific technical advice at any time.
4. Trust Administration Unit (TAU)
Overview and Functions
21.   The TAU will be the "operational arm" of the MBIFCT, providing technical and
administrative support to the TMB, LCSC and TAC. It will also work with communities,
individuals and agencies to inform them of the objectives and operational rules of the Trust and to
help in preparation of proposals. It will be the main administrative "interface" of the MBIFCT
with the local community, with specific responsibilities including:
(1)        receiving proposals, carrying out informal initial screening to ensure that they
meet the broad objectives of MBIFCT and routing them to the TAC for review
and to the LCSC (community proposals) or TMB (research and park management
proposals) for further consideration,



Annex 3
Page 8 of 14
(2)       disbursing funds to beneficiaries (based on agreed budgets and disbursement
schedules),
(3)       general community relations and awareness building, answering queries (including
providing explanations for rejections of project proposals), and providing feedback
from the community to the TMB, LCSC and TAC,
(4)       assisting community groups to organize and to identify, develop and submit
proposals to MBIFCT in the proper format and with all the needed information,
and to fulfill the Trust's financial management and accounting requirements,
(5)       providing technical assistance and training (using its consultant budget) to
community groups as needed to help them refine proposals, carry out feasibility
studies, develop and manage budgets, etc.,
(6)       preparing an annual administration budget and submitting it to TMB for approval,
(7)       maintaining all local accounts and records, and presenting regular financial and
management reports to the TMB, and
(8)       regular monitoring and evaluation of the MBIFCT operations including the use of
funds, implementation and impact of funded projects.
Composition
22.   The TAU will consist of a Trust Administrator, a Deputy Administrator, two Community
Extension Workers (one in Year 1, a second to join in Year 2), an Accountant and support staff
(secretary, driver, guards). The Administrator will be recruited internationally by the TMB,
subject to review and approval by the Bank and USAID (which will fund the TAU for the first 2
years)7/. The Deputy Administrator will be recruited locally and is intended to replace the
Administrator after Year 2. The Administrator will recruit the remaining staff locally, subject to
approval by the TMB. Terms of Reference and qualifications for the Administrator, the
Community Development Workers and the Accountant are provided in the Trust Administration
Manual.
Operational Modalities
23.   The TAU will be located in Kabale. The details of the TAU's responsibilities and
guidelines for its operations are set out in the Trust Administration Manual. Some aspects are
also discussed in other Annexes of this MOD (e.g.: project selection criteria, financial
management, accounting and auditing, monitoring and evaluation).
7/ Recruitment of the Trust Administrator is underway.



Annex 3
Page 9 of 14
24.   Commnunity interactions will be a very important aspect of implementation of the MBIFCT
program, but the project area is large and has very poor transportation and communications
infrastructure. At the same time, the TAU must be kept small to minimize costs. Therefore, the
TAU will work with and through existing extensionists and community workers in the area,
particularly field staff of the CARE/DTC project and the UNP community conservation wardens
supported under the CARE/DTC project. These individuals will carry out most of the general
public awareness raising concerning the objectives and operations of the MBIFCT, in the context
of their overall community conservation/ education programs. This will permit the very limited
TAU staff (see below) to focus on direct assistance to community groups with regard to
accessing, accounting for and making effective use of the Trust funds. UNP and CARE/DTC
managers have indicated their agreement and commitment to providing this cooperation.
25.   In addition, to ensure that activities funded by the Trust do not duplicate or conflict with
other activities or development plans, the TAU will maintain close contact with the field staff of
other agencies and organizations active in the area and with local officials, inviting them to
comment on project proposals relating to their spheres of interest. The details of how these
interactions how will be carried out will be set out in the Trust Administration Manual.
26.    A 5-year budget for TAU operations is provided in Annex 3-D. USAID has agreed to
fund the first two years, totalling $890,700. After the USAID funding ends, the recurrent
administration costs will be met from the income of the Trust8/. The Bank will review the
TAU's annual budget prior to its approval by TMB. The mid-term review will provide an
opportunity to review administration costs with the objective of minimizing them in order to
maximize the funds available for conservation and community activities.
8/ The MBIFCT may try to seek external funding, from USAID or other sources, for some
additional period at that time.



Annex 3A
Page 10 of 14
MGAE[INGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE FOREST CONSERVATION TRUST
Trust Administration Manual
Table of Contents
Abbreviations and Acronyms
1.0   Summary
2.0    TAU Management
3.0   Project Selection
4.0    Trust Financial Management and Accounting
5.0    Auditing
6.0    Reporting Requirements
7.0    Monitoring and Evaluation
Annexes
Annex 1:     Terms of Reference and Skill Requirements for the Trust Administrator
Annex 2:     Terms of Reference and Skill Requirements for the Trust Community
Development Workers
Annex 3:     Guidelines for the Appointment of the MBIFCT Management Board
Annex 4:     Guidelines for the Appointment of the MBIFCT Local Community Steering
Committee
Annex 5:     Guidelines for the Appointment of the MBIFCT Technical Advisory Committee
Annex 6:     Guidelines for Identifying, Developing, Submitting and Selecting MBIFCT
Community Projects
Annex 7:     Format for Preparing MBIFCT Community Projects
Annex 8:     Sample Contract/Letter of Agreement Between MBIFCT and Community/Group
for MBIFCT Community Projects
Annex 9:     Guidelines for Identifying, Developing, Submitting and Selecting MBIFCT
Research Projects
Annex 10:    Format for Preparing MBIFCT Research Projects
Annex 11:    Guidelines for Identifying, Developing, Submitting and Selecting MBIFCT Park
Management Projects
Annex 12:    Format for Preparing MBIFCT Park Management Projects
Annex 13:    Guidelines for MBIFCT Procurement of Goods and Technical Services
Annex 14:    Format for Technical Services and Procurement Contract
Annex 15:    Format for Contract for Procurement of Goods
Annex 16:    Settlement of Disputes/Claims



Annex 3B
Page 11 of 14
Initial Membership of Trust Management Board
NAME                                     REPRESENTING
Voting members:
Dr. Eric Edroma                          Uganda National Parks (Director)
Mr. Fred Kigenyi                         Forest Department (Head, Conservation Sect.)
Mr. Stanley Dunn*                        CARE-Uganda
Dr. Jonathan Baranga                     Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation
(Director)
Dr. Violet Kajubiri-Froelich             Wildlife Clubs of Uganda (Director)
Mr. Godfrey Zobbo                        Uganda Tourism Association (Chairman)
Mr. John Tindiwegi                       LCSC (Rukungiri District)
Mr. Zikanga Bashaija                     LCSC (Kabale District)
Mr. Aloisius Bakesigaki                  LCSC (Kisoro District)
Ex-officio members:
Mr. Ben Otto                             Min. of Tourism, Wildlife & Antiquities (P.S.)
Mr Tumisiimi                             Min. of Finance & Economic Planning (P.S.)
Mr. Peter Kabatsi                        Ministry of Justice (Solicitor General)
Mr. Robert Clausen                       USAID/Uganda
[To be determined]                       (Trust Administrator)
* Acting



Annex 3C
Page 12 of 14
Initial Membership of the Local Community Steering Committee
Name                             Representing
Mr. Zikanga Bashaija *                  Ikumba Subcounty, Kabale District
Mr. Protase Katambi                     Milk Subcounty, Kabale District
Mr. Aloisius Bakesigaki *               Kirumdo Subcounty, Kisoro District
Mr. Calistus Habikwiha                  Nyabwishenya Subcounty, Kisoro District
Mr. William Kwitegetse                  Bukimbiri Subcounty, Kisoro District
Mr. John Byibesho                       Nyarusiza Subcounty, Kisoro District
Mr. James Bavuga                        Muramba Subcounty, Kisoro District
Mr. John Tindiwegi  *                   Kirima Subcounty, Rukungiri District
Mr. Eddie Kamurasi                      Rutenga Subcounty, Rukungiri District
Mr. John Muhima                         Kayonza Subcounty, Rukungiri District
Mr. Lawrence Byarugaba                  Rugyeyo Subcounty, Rukungiri District
Mrs. Annette Sabasigali                 Women's groups (Mgahinga area)
Mrs. Perpetua Seguwaho                  Women's groups (Bwindi area)
Mr. Joseph Serugo                       UNP (Warden-in-Charge, BINP)
Mr. Tony Kirungi                        UNP (Warden-in-Charge, MGNP)
Mr. Philip Frank                        CARE/DTC
Mr. Klaus Zucker                        MGNPP
Ms. Elizabeth MacFie                    IGCP
Mr. Jonathan Baranga                    ITFC
* = voting member (initially)



Annex 3D
Page 13 of 14
Operating Costs for MBIFCT (in '000 US$)
1995   1996   1997   1998  1999+
Kampala Secretariat
Office Rent               10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Office Equipment         20.0    2.0
Secretary/Accountant      6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5
Support Staff             3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Kabale TAU Administrator 1/
Salary                   70.0   70.0   30.0   30.0   30.0
Housing                   7.5    4.0    2.4    2.4    2.4
Community Dev. Worker 2/   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0   18.0
Other National Staff
Deputy Administrator 3/   15.0   15.0      -      -       -
Accountant                9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0    9.0
Secretary                 4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8
Drivers (2)               4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8    4.8
Office Helper              1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0
Guards (2)                2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Vehicle and Motorbikes
Capital Cost             40.0      -       -      -       -
Depreciation (sinking fund)  10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Running Cost              15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0
Administrative Support
Office Rent               3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5
Office Equipment 4/      30.0      -       -      -       -
Depreciation (Sinking Fund   4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0
Office Running Costs 5/   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0   16.0
Travel and AUowances
Travel Abroad             10.0   19.5      -      -       -
Local Travel              5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Trust Mgmt. Board         3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Technical Advisory Comm.   4.5    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0
Local Comm. Steering Co   3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Consultants (incl. M&E)    50.0   50.0   30.0   15.0   15.0
Training and Public Educ.    30.0   30.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Audit                      5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Subproject Evaluation      3.0    4.5    6.0    6.0    6.0
SUBTOTAL                403.6  328.6  207.0  192.0  192.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGE   40.4   16.4   10.4    9.6    9.6
3% PRICE CONTINGENCY            10.4    6.5    6.0    6.0
GRAND TOTAL              444.0  355.4  223.9  207.6  207.6
of which Foreign Exchange   246.4  149.6   81.4   64.9   64.9
1/ Expatriate for first two years only.
2/ Two workers.
3/ Counterpart to Expatriate Administrator for first two years.
4/ Includes generator, computers, photocopier, furniture, etc.
5/ Includes office supplies, comunications, utilities, maintenance and insurance.
6/ 10% in year 1, 5% thereafter.



Annex 3, Figure 1
Page 14 of 14
MBIFCT Organizational Structure
Offshore Asset Manager
I
Trust Management
Board
TMB
Secretariat
I TAU    I
I                 I
|Chommunities    I     rers           UNP
MBIFCT Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
TMB     Trust Management Board
TAU     Trust Administration Unit
LCSC    Local Community Steering Committee
TAC     Technical Advisory Committee
UNP     Uganda National Parks



Annex 4
Page 1 of 13
Financial Analysis and Management
INTRODUCTION
1.     Trust funds and endowments are increasingly regarded as a promising financing
mechanism to provide the reliable, stable support needed to sustain effective conservation
programs. There are various institutional models being explored through GEF projects in
different countries, but they all share certain common features relating to finance and money
management: a capital fund which is invested with the aim of maintaining its real value in
perpetuity while generating income to fund project activities; a decision-making mechanism to
allocate the income for specified uses or to meet agreed objectives; and an administrative
mechanism to distribute and track the money disbursed and to evaluate the impact and cost-
effectiveness of the activities funded vis-a-vis the stated objectives.
2.     While the long-term, self-sustaining and self-governing nature of a trust fund is its major
asset, it also presents challenges with respect to design and evaluation of a project proposal.
Administrative mechanisms must be designed to balance the need for cost-effectiveness on the one
hand and for internal controls and accountability on the other. This is complicated by the fact
that actual disbursements are likely to be small compared to ordinary Bank-financed operations,
yet the need for accountability is, if anything, greater as these "pilot projects" will be under
intensive scrutiny. Institutional structures, operational modalities and investment strategies must
be adequately defined and specified to satisfy the Bank's fiduciary responsibility to ensure that
GET funds are properly managed and used effectively and in accordance with the stated
objectives, yet sufficiently flexible to adapt to legitimate changes in circumstances and needs in
the future. Financial analysis, which is clearly important to determine the feasibility of the
proposal, is at the same time seriously constrained by uncertainties regarding both the future
earning potential of the capital (inputs), and the future costs of administration and project
activities (outputs).
3.     There is as yet relatively little guidance available on these questions, as so far there have
been only two projects fully approved which involve a GET contribution to a trust fund (for
Bhutan and the Trilateral Foundation for the Eastern Carpathians). Preparation and analysis of
the financial aspects of the MBIFCT draws upon the approach used for the Bhutan project,
particularly with respect to format and presentation, but also makes extensive use of expertise
from organizations with experience in conservation financing (e.g. WWF) and in funding of
small-scale rural development activities (e.g. CARE). A financial/investment consultant was also
engaged to advise on aspects relating to investment of the capital fund, including: selection of an
investment firm to manage the capital asset, appropriate contract terms, investment strategy and
estimates of realistic rates of return in the short- and medium-term. This report is available in the
project files.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 13
INVESTMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE CAPITAL FUND
3.     The GET grant (capital fund) would be invested offshore in order to protect its value
against inflation and currency devaluation. The intention is that the real value of the capital will
be maintained in perpetuity through reinvestment of a portion of the income to match inflation,
with the remainder of the income to be used to cover asset management fees, MBIFCT
administration costs (after USAID funding for administration ceases) and to provide subgrants to
fund project activities as described in Annex 5. The Bye-laws of the MBIFCT Trust Deed specify
investment and spending rules for managing the capital asset. This includes acceptable levels of
risk for investments, conditions under which the capital may be invaded, mechanisms for re-
investment of unspent income and mechanisms for incorporating and managing additional grants
and assets provided by sources other than the GET. A relatively low-risk investment strategy
would be pursued in order to protect the capital to the extent possible. However, the rules for
managing the fund would permit erosion or even invasion of the capital, at the discretion of the
TMB through a unanimous vote, in order to ensure disbursement for projects of at least $
100,000 a year beginning in Year 2 (the USAID grant will provide $25,000 in Year 1 and $
75,000 in Year 2, for subgrants including related short-term technical assistance).
4.     The TMB has selected an investment firm (assets manager) from a shortlist provided by
the investment consultant, to manage the capital fund. The TMB will approve an annual
investment strategy based on the assets manager's proposals in view of the Trust's objectives, and
acceptable to the Bank, prior to effectiveness. For the first five years, the investment strategy
would also be reviewed by the Bank. Initially, the assets manager will be located in UK and the
capital fund will be held in an account in a location selected to avoid capital gains taxes and other
fees to the extent possible. These arrangements would be subject to alteration in the future by the
TMB at its discretion.
5.     Future rates of return, and therefore the financial sustainability of the Trust, can only be
estimated, based on projections provided by the investment consultant and the shortlisted
investment firms. Most indicated that, to be conservative, a maximum return of 8.5 percent
should be expected in the short term, with strong likelihood of higher returns in the medium and
long term. The Tables in Annex 4-A offer three illustrative financial scenarios based on different
total rates of return on investment on an initial $ 4 million capitall/: 10.4 percent, 8.5 percent
(with $ 4 million capital throughout, and 8.5 percent with an additional $3.5 million added to the
capital in Year 3). These represent net returns of 7.4 percent and 5.5 percent respectively,
assuming that 3 percent of revenues are reinvested to maintain the real value of the capital against
inflation. Other assumptions include: (1) external (USAID) funding of MBIFCT administrative
costs through Year 2; (2) a fixed asset management fee of 1 percent, although this percentage
would actually be expected to decline if the capital increases with additional contributions; (3) no
other fees or taxes paid (including on capital gains); (4) a minimum of $ 100,000 per year to be
disbursed as subgrants; and (5) administrative costs starting at $ 200,000 in Year 3 (after USAID
1/ While the Netherlands government is likely to contribute another $ 1 million soon after the
Trust is established, this contribution is not yet certain and therefore has not been included in the
financial analysis.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 13
funding ends) and then growing at 3 percent2/. Thus, minimum annual income needed from
the Trust is estimated at $ 300,000.
6.     These scenarios were selected to illustrate the following:
(1) a minimum total return of 10.4 percent would be needed to maintain the real value of
a $ 4 million capital fund under the conditions set above;
(2) with the more conservative 8.5 percent rate of return, under the conditions above, the
$ 4 million capital will erode to less than half its current value after 28 years;
(3) sensitivity analysis, carried out to determine the break-even amount of capital
investment, shows that an additional investment of $ 3.5 million in Year 3 would make it
possible to maintain the real value of the capital in perpetuity at an 8.5 percent rate of
return.
7.     The issue of financial sustainability should be re-examined at the mid-term review, at
which time it may be deemed appropriate to seek additional capital from the GEF and/or other
sources. Additional external funds to help defray administrative costs in the early years (allowing
re-investment of income) would also have a major positive impact on the financial viability of the
Trust, as would reduction in administrative costs if these can be achieved (see Para. 12 below).
MANAGEMENT OF THE INCOME
8.     The MBIFCT initiative presents a special challenge in financial management. The
majority of the income (the 60 percent for community development projects) is likely to be
disbursed mostly in the form of quite small grants (under $1000), and the expected recipients are
widely scattered over a large area with difficult terrain, poor infrastructure and very limited
banking services. It is also a cash-poor, largely subsistence economy so that most people have
relatively little experience in managing money. There are many local self-help groups which are
likely to be interested in applying for MBIFCT grants but may not have any formal procedures
for holding and managing money as a group. As a result, the Trust Administration Unit will have
to carry much of the responsibility for disbursement and accounting of the funds at a micro level,
while at the same time actively building the financial management capacity in the community.
Flow of Funds and Financial Procedures
9.     Annex 4-B shows projected funds flow for the first five years of the project (i.e., life of
the World Bank project). These procedures will be specified in detail in the Trust
Administration Manual, and are summarized below.
2/ This is a conservative scenario, as it is hoped that administrative costs will stabilize or actually
decline modestly after the first few years of operation.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 13
10.   Kampala Account--TMB: The TMB will establish a foreign currency account,at a bank
in Kampala, to which the assets manager will transfer interest earned by the capital fund on a
quarterly basis (the first transfer being made at the beginning of Year 2, as USAID will fund both
administration costs and subgrants in Year 1.). The Kampala account will be operated by the
administrator and countersigned by a mandated TMB member. The balance of funds in the TMB
account would be available for short term investments in Uganda, at the discretion of the TMB.
The TMB will co-opt or engage a financial adviser to assist members in reviewing and making
decisions relating to management of the capital asset and local investments, and to help strengthen
their overall knowledge and capacity in this area.
11.   Kabale Account--TAC/LCSC: TMB will transfer funds to TAU's main account in a
bank in Kabale, in accordance with an agreed budget. The budget will be prepared by the
Administrator and his staff and submitted to the TMB for annual approval, subject to World Bank
review for the first five years. Transfers for expenditures will be made monthly to cover
administrative costs, and quarterly for subgrants in accordance with the approved project pipeline.
The TAU main account will be operated by the administrator and countersigned by a designated
member of the LCSC, selected by the LCSC on the basis of his or her proximity to Kabale. The
TAU will also operate an imprest (cash float) account to cover daily running costs. The account
will be operated by the accountant and countersigned by the administrator.
12.   Disbursement of funds:      Projects will be approved by the LCSC or TMB on the
basis of specific budgets and implementation schedules, against which the Trust Administrator can
authorize payments. The Administrator will agree with the beneficiaries on a disbursement
schedule for each project, including monitorable targets to trigger release of funding tranches
where appropriate (many grants are expected to be sufficiently small that they should be disbursed
in a single payment). For community projects, the TAU and the beneficiary community group
will decide on a case-by-case basis how actual disbursements are to be made, but in most cases
this will be by transfer from the TAU bank account to the group's bank account. The Trust
Administrator and the TAU Accountant will be responsible for ensuring that expenditures are
incurred only for approved project budget items and that correct procurement procedures are
followed (although World Bank requirements will generally not be applicable due to the small
amounts involved).
Internal Control
13.   Internal control will be based on the following principles:
(1)         Division of duties, which will be specified in the terms of engagement and also in
the Trust Administration Manual.
(2)         Accounting controls. All bank accounts will be operated by mandates approved
by the TMB. This applies to the TMB and the TAU bank accounts. The TMB
main account in Kampala will be operated by the Administrator and countersigned
by a TMB member. The TAU account in Kabale will also be operated by the
Administrator and countersigned by a LCSC member.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 13
(3)          Budgetary approval system. All operational costs will originated by the
management and approved by the TMB.
(4)          Subgrants will be approved through the LCSC up to US$ 1,000 equivalent and by
the TMB for all others. All subgrants will be vetted by the TAC for technical
soundness and environmental/social impact evaluation.
(5)          Reporting. Monthly reports, including financial statements, will be prepared at
the TAU level and submitted to the TMB. Quarterly consolidated reports will be
prepared at the TMB level and also submitted to the TMB. Annual financial
reports will be prepared and externally audited for submission to the Bank.
Annual reports will be prepared by the asset manager for the TMB as well.
External Audit
14.    The assets manager, the Trust and the TAU will be externally audited annually by an
independent auditor. An interim audit will also be expected after the first six months and in
subsequent years to cover internal control systems and evaluations of subgrants in accordance with
specific TMB requirements and internationally accepted accounting standards and auditing
guidelines.
15.    The following general guidelines will apply to the audit of subgrants: (1) grants of less
than US$ 1,000 equivalent to be examined on a sample basis (25 percent of projects); (2) grants
of US$ 1,000 - 10,000 also to be examined on a sample basis (50 percent of projects); (3) all
projects over US$ 10,000 to be audited annually. A separate evaluation of subgrants will also be
carried out to ensure compliance with conservation and environmental objectives and compliance
with TAU operational and authorization guidelines.
Cost of Trust Administration
16.    Annex 4-C gives the budget for Trust administration (including disbursement of subgrants
for projects and related TA) for the first five years. While high relative to the proposed amount
to be disbursed as subgrants, these costs are already minimized based on the expectation that
others, particularly extensionists associated with the CARE/DTC project, will play a major role in
public awareness raising and outreach on behalf of the Trust, thereby reducing the field staff
needed in the TAU. In addition, the ratio of disbursements for community projects to
administrative costs will improve substantially if, as expected, revenue sharing funds (from gorilla
tourism) are administered in part through the same mechanism, i.e. passed through the LCSC.
Administrative set-up and operating costs will be covered by USAID for the first two years, after
which (at the mid-term review) it will be possible to evaluate the administrative structure and
determine whether it can be reduced or streamlined. Ultimately, however, it is recognized that
the 2:1 ratio of administrative costs to actual disbursements cannot be accepted in perpetuity, as it
would undermine the objectives and justification for the Trust. The Trust Deed will therefore
specify that this ratio is intended to be reversed. If this should prove impossible within a
reasonable period of time, the Trustees would have the responsibility to dissolve the Trust on the
grounds that it is failing to meet its objectives.



Annex 4A
Breakeven ROI given 100,000 subloan amount                                                                                                  Table 1
10.4% ROI (7.4% real ROI, 3% inflation)                                                                                                     Page 6 of 13
2 year USAID contribution                                                Investment Analysis of MBIFCT
Thousands of Current USS
1        2        3         4        5         a        7         8        9        10       11        12       13        14       15       1I
1905     196     1997      1998     1999      2000     2001      2002     2003      2004     2005      2006     2007      2008     2009      2010
(Capital 1.03)              4000    4.120      4.244    4,371    4,502     4,837     4,776    4,919    5.067     5,219    5,376     5,537    5,703     5,874    6,050     6,232
MBIFCT Capital
Beginning year Capital 1/     4,000    4.372    4,778     4,878    5,005     5.143    5.288     5.440    5,598    5,765    5,039      6,123    6,315     6,518    8,731     6,966
(investmentIncome) 2/            0      412       450      460      471       484      498       512      527       543      560       577      595       614      634       655
USAID Contribution 3/          480      430         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Leas Expenditures              500      474       360      345       346      353       381      369       377      385       393      402       411      421       431      441
End-Year Capital             3.960     4,328    4.418     4,533    4.850    4,790     4,927     5,071    5,222     5,380    5,546     5,721    5.904    6.097     6.301     6,515
Expenditures
Fixed Charges                  475      399       260      245       246      253       281      209       277      285       293      302       311      321       331      341
(TAU Management)              435       355      212       196      196      202       208      214       221      227       234      241       248      256       263      271
(Offshore Trust Mgmt) 4/       40        44       48       49        50       51        53       54        56       58        59       e1        63       e5        67        70
Project Subloans                25       75       100      100       100      100       100      100       100      100       100      100       100      100       100      100
Total Expenditures             500      474       300      345       346      353       361      369       377      385       393      402       411      421       431      441
1/ Asumes 3% inflation, real value of capital kept constant.
2/ Assumes 10.4% rate of retum on investment, Investment income accrue on first day of each year and are thus part of beginning year capital.
3/ Asumes USAID wHI contribute S1 00.000 for subloans in years I and 2.
41 One percent of capital.



Annex 4A
Table I
Page 7 of 13
17       18       19        20       21        22       23       24        25       26        27       28        29       30
2011     2012     2013      2014     2015      2016     2017      2018     2019     2020      2021     2022      2023     2024
6,419    6,611    6,810    7,014    7,224      7,441    7,664    7.894    8,131     8,375    8,626     8,885    9,152    9,426
7,192    7.442    7,706    7,984    8,279    8,591      8,922    9,272     9,645    10,040    10,480    10,908    11,384    11,892
678      701      726       752      780       809      840       873      909       94e      985     1,028     1,072    1.120
0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
451      462      474       485      497       510      523       536      550       565      580       596      612      629
6.741    6,980    7,232     7,499    7,782    8,081     8,399    8,736    9,094    9,475    9,880    10,312    10,772   11,263
351      362      374       385      397       410      423      436       450      455       480      496       512      529
279      288      296       305      315       324      334       344      354      365       378      387       398      410
72       74       77        80       83        86       89        93       96       100      105       109      114      119
100      100      100       100      100       100      100       100      100      100       100      100       100      100
451      482      474       485      497       510      523       536      550       565      580     s59        612      629



Annex 4A
8.5% ROI, eroding capital                                                                                                                      Table 2
2 year USAID Contribution                                                                                                                      Page 8 of 13
Investment Analysis of MBIFCT
Thousands of Current USS
1        2         3        4         5         e         7        8         9        10        11       12        13        14
1995     1996      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001     2002      2003      2004      2005     2006      2007      2008
MBIFCT Capital
Beginning year Capital 1/     4.000     4,297     4,615    4,619     4,640     4,663    4,681     4,694     4,702     4,702    4,686     4.682     4,659     4,626
(Investment Income) 21           0       337       362      362       364       365       367      368       368       368       368      367       365       362
USAID Contribution 3/           460      430         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
Less Expenditures               500      473       358       342       342      349       355       361      368       374       381       388      395       402
End-Year Capital              3,960     4,254    4,257     4,277     4,298     4,315    4,327     4,333     4,334     4,328    4,315     4.294     4,264     4.224
Expenditures
Fixed Charges                   475      398       258       242       242      249       255       261      268       274       281       288      295       302
TAU Management                 435      355       212       196       196      202       208       214       221      227       234       241      248       256
Offshore Trust Mgmt 4           40        43       46        46        46       47        47        47        47       47        47        47        47       46
Project Subloans                 25       75       100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100
Total Expenditures              500      473       358       342       342      349       355       361       368      374       381       388      395       402
11 Assumes 3% inflation, value of capital eroded.
2/ Assumes 5.5% real rate of return on investment, investment income accrue on first day of each year and are thus part of beginning year capital.
3/ Assumes USAID will contribute $100,000 for subloans in years 1 and 2.
4/ One percent of capital.                                                                                                                     a:\tab4A2



Annex 4A
Table 2
Page 9 of 13
15       16        17        18       19        20        21       22        23        24        25       26        27        28        29       30
2009     2010      2011      2012     2013      2014      2015      2016     2017      2018      2019     2020      2021      2022      2023     2024
4,584    4,529     4,462     4,381    4,285     4,173     4,042     3,892    3,721     3,527     3,307    3.059     2,782     2,472     2,127     1,744
359      355       350       343      336       327       317       305      292       276       259      240       218       194       167       137
0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0
409      417       424       432      439       447       455       463      471       479       487      495       503       512       520      528
4,174    4,113     4,038     3,950    3.846     3,726     3,588     3,430    3,250     3,048     2,820    2,564     2,279     1,961     1,608     1,216
309      317       324       332      339       347       355       363      371       379       387      395       403       412       420      428
263      271       279       288      295       305       315       324      334       344       354       365      376       387       398      410
46       45        45        44       43        42        40        39       37        35        33       31        28        25        21        17
100      100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100
409      417       424       432      439       447       455       463      471       479       487      495       503       512       520      528



Annex 4A
Additional Capital of 3.5 million needed in year 3                                                                                              Table 3
to reach 8.5% return on investment, all else constant                                                                                            Page 10 of 13
2 year USAID contribution                                                   Investment Analysis of MBIFCT
Thousands of Current US$
1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8         9        10       11        12        13        14        15       16
1995     1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002      2003      2004     2005      2006      2007      2008      2009     2010
(Capital 1.03)               4000     4,120     7,744     7,976     8.215     8,462    8,715     8,977     9,246     9,524     9,809    10.104    10,407    10,719    11,041    11,372
MBIFCT Capital
Beginning yearCapital 1/       4,000    4,297     8,115     8,400     8,725    9,074     9,444     9,836    10,251    10,691    11,158    11,653    12,179    12,737    13,330    13,961
(Investment Income) 2/            0      337       382       858       684      711       740       771       803       838       874      913       954       998     1,044     1,094
USAID Contribution 31           480       430         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
Less Expenditures               500       473       373      359       361       370       379      388       397       407       418       428       440      451       463       476
End-YearCapital               3.960     4,254     7,742     8,041     8.364    8,704     9,066     9,448     9,854    10,284    10,740    11,225    11,739    12,286    12,8B7    13,485
Expenditures
Fixed Charges                   475       398       273      259       261       270       279       288      297       307       318       328       340      351       363       376
(TAU Management)               435       355       212       196      196       202       208       214      221       227       234       241       248      256       263       271
(Offshore Trust Mgmt) 4/        40        43        61       63        85        68        71        74        77       80        84        87        91        96      100       105
Project Subloans                 25        75       100       100      100       100       100       100      100       100       100       100       100      100       100       100
Total Expenditures              500       473       373      359       381       370       379       388      397       407       418       428       440      451       463       476
1/ Assumes 3% inflation, real value of capital kept constant.
2/ Assumes 10.4% rate of return on investment, investment income accrue on first day of each year and are thus part of beginning year capital.
31 Assumes USAID will contribute $100,000 for subloans in years 1 and 2.
4/ One percent of capital.                                                                                                                      a:\tab4A3



Annex 4A
Table 3
Page 11 of 13
17       18        19        20       21        22        23        24       25        26        27       28        29        30
2011     2012      2013      2014     2015      2016      2017      2018     2019      2020      2021      2022     2023      2024
11,713    12,064    12,426    12,799    13,183    13,578    13,986    14,405    14,838    15,283    15,741    16,213    16,700    17,201
14,631    15,344    16,102    16,910    17,770    18.68B    19,662    20,703    21,812    22,996    24,260    25,608    27,049    28,587
1,146    1,202     1,261     1,325    1,392     1,464     1,540     1,622    1,709     1,802     1,901    2,006     2,119     2,240
0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0
489      503       517       532      548       564       581       599      618       637       658       679      701       725
14,142    14,841    15,585    16,377    17,222    18,121    19,081    20,104    21,195    22,359    23,802    24,930    26,347    27,862
389      403       417       432      448       464       481       499      518       537       558       579      601       625
279      288       296       305      315       324       334       344      354       385       376       387      398       410
110      115       121       127      133       140       147       155      164       172       182       192      203       214
100      100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100       100       100       100      100       100
489      503       517       532      548       564       581       599      618       637       B58       679      701       725



An= 4B
Pap 12ol3
Pub PoW Projeetie. for Fird PFive Year
Thomaub of US$
1995                                                    1996                                                    1997
IdQ       20d Q       3nl Q      4tb Q    Toeal         IdQ        2nd Q      3rd Q      4th Q    Total         Id Q       2sd Q      3rd Q       4th Q    Total
A_nt _v Pw_d CPmw
Capia                                         4000                                         4C00        4300                                         4300       4573                                         4573
Income 1/                                                                        340        340                                           366        366         97         97          97         97        3S9
Offnhore Trot Migmt                                                               40         40                                            43         43                                           46         46
Net Revenue                                       0          0          0        300        300           0          0          0         323        323         97          97         97         Si         343
Tnsfers to TUE                                                                     0           0         13         13          13         13         50         97          97         97         51         343
Ballee in Investme  Accent                                                                4300                                                     4573                                                    4573
TUD Pruneded Ca  Flow
Traafkn fnm  Aset Mgr.                            0          0          0          0           0         13         13          13         13         50         97          97         97         51        343
USAID Conti0bat 2/                             460                                          460         430                                          430                                                       0
Operatin Cots                                   109        109        109        109        435          29         S9         S9          89        355          53         53         53         53         212
9jblon a3/                                        6          6          6          6          25         19         19          19         19         75          25         25         25         25         100
Net Revcmue (Cumulative)                        345        230        115          0                    335        240         145         50                     69        aS         107         SI
Euirgs on Revenue 4/                             17         12          6          0          35         17         12          7           3         39           3          4          5          4          17
BalanceimBok                                    362        242        121          0                    352        252         152         53                    73          93        113         a5
1/ Asumo S. 5 % return on iocome. Income tns ferrd from Investment Manager to TAB acceont quarterly after year 2.
2/ Operating cods funded by USAIM for fint two year, thereftr funded by income tranferred to Uganda quarterly.
3/ Furt two yean funded by USAID, thereafter from trad icme.
4/ Asumnes 20% eafninga en cash balas   anually                                                                                                                                              :tb4b



Amaex 4B
Page 13 of 13
MBEFCr
Funds Flow Projection for Fint Five Yean
Thousads of USS
1998                                                    1999
lo Q      2nd Q       3rd Q      4th Q    Total         lo Q      2nd Q       3rd Q      4tb Q    Total
Aset Managen Projected Cash Flow
Capital                                       4573                                         4573       4573                                          4573
Income I/                                       97          97         97         97        389          97         97         97         97         389
Offshore Traxt Mgmt                                                               46         46                                           46          46
Net Revenue                                     97          97         97         51        343          97         97         97          51        343
Trnafen to TMB                                  97          97         97         51        343          97         97         97          51        343
Baane in Investment Account                                                                4573                                                     4573
TMB Projected Cash Flow
Tanfen from Aet Mgr.                            97          97         97         51        343          97         97         97          51        343
USAID Cwtribuian 2/                                                                           0                                                        0
OpCrti Cods                                     49          49         49         49         196         49         49         49         49         196
Subloans 3/                                     25          25         25         25         100         25         25         25         25         100
Not Revene  (Canulative)                        104        127        150        128                    151        174        197         175
Eaznigs on Reveome 4/                            5           6          a          6         25           a          9         10          9          35
Balace in Bak                                   109        134        158        134                    159        113        207         114



Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
Use of the Funds: Project Selection Criteria
SUMMARY
1.    The MBIFCT would fund three categories of projects and activities, with funding initially
allocated as followsl/: (1) community development projects (60 percent), (2) research projects
(20 percent), and (3) park management activities (20 percent). The Trust Administration Manual
(TA Manual) contains detailed selection criteria to guide the TAU, the LCSC, the TAC and the
TMB in their review of project proposals, as well as guidelines and formats for submission of
proposals. The TAU (with the assistance of the LCSC and cooperating extension workers) would
be responsible for communicating these criteria and guidelines to community members through a
variety of means including meetings, pamphlets, radio messages, individual consultations, etc. It
would also work directly with community groups (and, where needed, with researchers) to help
them prepare and revise proposals for presentation to the LCSC and TMB.
1. Community Development Projects
Group Eligibility Criteria
2.     To avoid encouraging the formation of transitory, non-viable groups simply to attract
MBIFCT funds, the TA Manual specifies eligibility criteria for groups which may submit
proposals. These criteria include that they:
should have been in existence for at least one year;
-      should hold an account in a local bank in the name of the group;
-     have an open, transparent organization, including one or more officers or leaders
who are elected in accordance with well-articulated rules, accepted as
representatives by the entire group, and have specific responsibilities and
accountability to group members;
3.    The duly elected leaders or representatives would be expected to sign a contract on behalf
of the group with the TAU, which explicitly specifies the responsibilities and functions of each
party (a model contract is provided in the TA Manual).
Proiect Eligibilitv Criteria
The following guidelines apply to projects to be funded by MBIFCT:
I/ Proportions of funds going to each category may be changed by the TMB in the future



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
(1)    they must have clear relevance to, and potential for positive impact on,
conservation of BINP and MGNP and their biological resources;
(2)    they must be technically and operationally feasible and consistent with the
capabilities of the proposing group;
(3)   they must be practically and financially sustainable after the MBIFCT grant ends;
(4)    they must include a matching "self help" contribution from the proposing group,
in cash or in kind, valued at a minimum of 25 percent of the total project;
(5)   they must include a "capacity building" aspect (e.g. training, community
organization)
(5)    they must meet environmental and social impact criteria set out in the Trust
Administration Manual (consistent with the World Bank's Operational Directives);
(6)    they must conform to UNP policies and BINP and MGNP conservation and
management objectives and plans;
(7)    they should have the potential for replicability by other groups
(8)    for larger proposals (e.g. over $5,000), they should preferably have co-financing
from another source.
4.     Physical proximity of the project to the BINP and/or MGNP will be one element in the
evaluation and ranking of proposals, and it is anticipated that the projects would all be located in
Kisoro, Kabale and Rukungiri Districts and the great majority in the counties which are located
nearest the parks. No arbitrary geographic limits have been imposed, however, leaving the LCSC
and TMB to determine whether a given project is likely to have a beneficial impact (e.g.
agro-forestry or woodlots in areas where demand for wood products is currently met from the
parks, even though they may be considerable distance from the boundaries).
5.     While it is expected that most grants would be small (e.g. USh 5 million--about $5,000 or
less), grants for larger sums could be justified if the number of beneficiaries and/or demonstration
effects are sufficiently large (e.g. road improvements to facilitate market access for agricultural
products or tourism). Such projects will require closer scrutiny and review, and more elaborate
administration and monitoring arrangements, than smaller grants. The TAU would also assist the
proposing group to seek co-financing for larger proposals, although the TMB may choose to
approve any level of funding for any project within the constraints of the available income.
6.     The Trust Administrator would do initial screening of community project proposals, to
determine whether they appear to be consistent with the conservation and development objectives
of the Trust. Those which are judged appropriate for further consideration would be passed to
the TAC for screening in relation to environmental/social impact assessment requirements. The
Trust Administrator would also consult with local authorities and staff of other organizations and
agencies, as needed, to determine whether a proposal duplicates or conflicts with other activities
or could best be addressed by other agencies. He/she would determine whether the specific



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
project or the proposing group has been turned down for assistance by other organizations in the
past and, if so, why. The Trust Administrator would have the responsibility to inform the
proposing group of the reasons for rejection of any proposal, along with advice and technical
assistance for revision or further development of promising but not yet approvable project ideas.
Illustrative Examples of Community Projects
7.    Based on surveys of economic activities in the area and the experiences of the
CARE/DTC project, it is possible to identify several types of community projects which are likely
to be proposed and could be considered appropriate for MBIFCT funding:
(1)    BEEKEEPING: Traditional beekeeping has been practiced in the Trust area for
hundreds of years, often inside what are now the park boundaries. Some groups
(particularly traditional forest dwellers) continue to remove honey from wild hives
or place artificial hives in the forests. This can cause important environmental
damage, for example through cutting down trees to make the hives and through
wildfires started while "smoking out" the bees. At the same time, if properly
controlled and managed, beekeeping can be a benign and positive activity which
generates appreciation of the forest as a source of nectar. Constraints to
development of a strong local beekeeping industry include limited organization,
lack of access to improved technology and poor understanding of the market. The
Trust will provide technical assistance to beekeeper groups .to help them prepare
and implement project proposals which address these constraints.
(2)    FORESTRY AND AGRO-FORESTRY: The Bwindi and Mgahinga forests have
traditionally provided a wealth of wood products essential to the surrounding
conununities (woodfuel, building materials, plant stakes, "beer boats," etc.).
CARE/DTC, the Forest Department and ICRAF/AFRENA have been working
with communities in the area for a number of years to encourage on-farm wood
production. The TAU and LCSC will draw upon this experience in their
evaluation of project proposals and will coordinate with these organizations to
ensure that MBIFCT funding is complementary, rather than duplicative or
competitive.
(3)    MEDICINAL PLANTS AND OTHER NON-TIMBER PRODUCTS: One of
the greatest values of the forests to local communities is as a source of medicinal
plants, vines for basketry, fruits, etc. While UNP and conservation NGOs are
carrying out studies of the potential for sustainable harvesting of some of these
plants, it is very unlikely in most cases that the demand can be met in this way.
There is therefore great potential for development of cultivation of many species
outside the forest, with technical and financial assistance from the Trust.
(4)    DAIRY: Surveys carried out before and during project preparation identified
dairy production as a major area of interest among local communities. The TAU
would consult on dairy proposals with CARE/DTC and Heifer International,
which are active in this field in the Trust area. Dairy projects (like horticulture)



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
can enable communities to benefit from tourism by supplying visitors with
foodstuffs, and also improve local nutrition.
(5)    TOURISM: Surveys indicate that local communities believe there is considerable
potential for tourism development in the area, and that this is one of the main
sources of potential benefit for them from conservation of the parks. UNP (with
assistance from AWF, USAID, IGCP and GAPS) has developed a tourism plan
for BINP and is preparing one for MGNP; any project related to tourism-
development should be reviewed in conjunction with these plans and
organizations. Initially, most community proposals will likely be for provision of
simple tourist services (e.g. providing foodstuffs and handicrafts), although later
more elaborate proposals (e.g. for camps, hostels, guided transportation, etc.)
may be anticipated. Tourism is a difficult area for community involvement,
however. Experience elsewhere in Uganda and in other countries shows that local
communities often lack a realistic understanding of what tourism can actually
generate by way of benefits. Community-based "tourism" project proposals are
also often poorly conceived and designed because local people often do not really
know what tourists do and do not want. The participation of a representative of
the tourism industry on the TMB is aimed in part at helping to ensure that
community-based proposals that are approved are feasible and likely to be
successful. The TAU's technical assistance budget will also be used to provide
targeted expertise to assist community groups to develop and implement good
tourism-related projects.
2. Research
Research Priorities
8.    MBIFCT support for research would aim to help provide the information necessary for
proper management of the parks and also to ensure that the parks contribute to the general
knowledge about regional and global biodiversity. A workshop was organized jointly by the
Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC)2/ and by the East African Wildlife Society-
Uganda (EAWLS)3/ in October, 1993 to develop a framework and priorities for research in and
around the BINP and MGNP. A proposed first year research work program based on this report
was discussed at negotiations and will be agreed prior to project effectiveness.
9.    The TMB would solicit proposals for specific research projects to be funded by the
MBIFCT, relying upon the TAC to review them for technical merit, priority and consistency with
the research framework laid out in the workshop report and also with the park management plans.
While it is expected that the ITFC would carry out a substantial part of the total research,
2/ Designated by UNP as responsible for coordination of research relating to BINP
3/ The EAWLS supports ecological research in the East Africa region and is likely to provide
some co-financing for the overall research program in the future



Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
proposals would be considered from all sources though with a strong preference for first Ugandan
and then East African institutions and researchers.
10.   Priority areas for MBIFCT research support are likely to include:
(1)    Ecological inventories and monitoring: to help measure the impact of the
MBIFCT and other conservation efforts and of tourism (see Annex 7)
(2)    Sustainable use of biodiversity: e.g. to guide and monitor proposed sustainable
exploitation of selected species in multiple use zones, as indicated in the BINP
management plan (see Annex 1). This aspect of park management is very
strongly desired by the local communities. However, considerable research is still
needed to identify multiple-use areas, harvestable species and sustainable methods
and levels of harvesting.
(3)    Habitat quality studies: for example, to identify management actions which
could encourage gorilla groups to remain year-round within the MGNP area.
(4)    Socioeconomic Research: including impacts of forest closure on local
communities including the Batwa, means of increasing community benefits from
the parks, impacts of and means to reduce crop raiding by wildlife, social impacts
of tourism, etc. (see Annexes 6 and 7)
3. Park Manaeement Activities
11.    Unlike the community development and research components, MBIFCT assistance for
park management would go to a single institution, UNP, which is the responsible authority for the
national parks. Nevertheless, UNP would submit specific proposals to the TMB for MBIFCT
funding. The TAC would help review these proposals to ensure that they are consistent with GEF
objectives, the respective park management plans, and the guidelines and requirements provided
in the TA Manual which will be the means of ensuring consistency with Bank requirements and
Operational Directives (e.g. on environmental assessment and resettlement).
12.   An initial draft of a two-year park management work plan prepared by UNP, indicating
proposed operating costs and expected revenues from GOU contribution, tourism and from
MBIFCT, was reviewed at negotiations. This draft is being refined to identify other sources of
support (NGO projects), to clarify the portion of tourism revenues which will be retained for
management of BINP and MGNP (as opposed to other parks) and to indicate specific activities for
which MBIFCT funds might be sought (in line with the likely level of funds available). A
finalized first year work plan will be reviewed by the Bank prior to project effectiveness.
Specific activities to be funding may include, for example, improved boundary demarkation,
expanded patrols, equipment or fuel for rangers and wardens, facilitation of communication and
consultation between park authorities and communities (e.g. through the Park Management
Advisory Committees), acquisition of small areas of land to enhance critical habitat (for gorillas
and other species), etc. UNP and the MBIFCT Board have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding that sets out the responsibilities of each party, for example requiring UNP to notify



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
MBIFCT in advance if it intends to institute any measures or actions which could significantly
change (reduce) the biodiversity values of the parks.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
Social and Environmental Impact Assessment
SUMMARY
1.    The project has been assigned Environmental Assessment Category B. It is expected to
have a positive overall environmental impact by contributing to the conservation of the natural
environment and biological diversity, including rare and endangered habitats and species as well
as a critical water catchment area. Nevertheless, there are three aspects requiring assessment and
mitigation of potential negative impacts. First, and most easily addressed, is the need to avert
unanticipated negative impacts of individual projects and activities funded by the Trust. This will
be accomplished by including environmental and socio-economic assessment in the project review
process, as described in Annex 5.
2.     Second, the Trust will help strengthen park management and assist UNP to implement
park management plans. This will include the involuntary resettlement of a small number of
people residing and/or cultivating inside the BINP boundaries (the Mbwa River tract). To justify
GEF support for conservation of the area, GOU (UNP) has agreed to carry out this resettlement
in accordance with World Bank policies.
3.    Third, improved park management will also result in more effective restriction of the
(now illegal) harvesting of forest products by people living in the vicinity of the BINP and
MGNP, with potential negative impacts on their quality of life. The economic benefits associated
with the Trust, as well as the soon-to-be-initiated revenue sharing program, may be regarded as a
form of mitigation and compensation to the communities for the opportunity costs of their loss of
access to these resources. The establishment of multiple-use zones for controlled harvesting of
some forest products has also been initiated on a pilot scale to help mitigate this socio-economic
impact, but could in turn have negative environmental impacts unless carefully planned, regulated
and monitored. Special attention will be needed to address the needs of the small local population
of Batwa pygmies, who have traditionally been the most highly dependent on the forest and who
(being landless) are very poorly integrated into the dominant, largely agricultural economy and
society. An "Indigenous Peoples Plan" outlining measures to assist the Batwa to participate and
benefit from the project was prepared by GOU and approved by the Bank.
4.     A project working paper on socio-cultural issues has been prepared and is available in the
project files.
LEGAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
5.     Uganda does not presently have a national policy or procedures for environmental impact
assessment of development projects, but is developing them in the context of implementing the
recently approved National Environmental Action Plan. The project, including activities funded
under Trust subgrants will comply with World Bank EIA policies and with GOU policies when
these are available.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
6.     The project will capitalize a Trust Fund which will provide "subgrants" to support
research, park management and community development activities aimed at fostering improved
management and long-term conservation of the BINP and MGNP. Grants will be given in
support of specific project proposals, which will be screened by the Technical Advisory
Committee (TAC) to determine whether preliminary environmental or social impact evaluation is
required. The Trust itself (Trust Management Board or Trust Administration Unit) will not
acquire any land or erect any infrastructure although it may provide funds to beneficiaries for
these purposes.
POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF SUB-GRANTS
7.     Community development grants will be provided for a wide range of activities, based
on the judgement of the LCSC, TMB and TAC that they are likely to have a positive impact on
conservation of the parks and their biological diversity. The main categories of projects are likely
to be: (1) production of materials (e.g. foods, building or craft materials, medicinal plants,
utensils, etc.) to replace or substitute for products traditionally harvested from the parks; (2)
development of income-generating enterprises to replace income lost through restricted access to
park resources and/or to enable people to purchase substitute products; (3) development and
promotion of tourism-related local enterprises; (4) general community development, including
infrastructure development where appropriate, to contribute to the success of (1)-(3). Projects to
increase the benefits derived from use of forest resources, where this is permitted under the park
management plans, could also be funded (e.g. refining honey from forest hives), although this is
expected to be limited by ecological constraints on the levels of exploitation which are possible.
Possible impacts of such community development projects include: increased encroachment
pressure on the parks as beneficiaries seek to expand agricultural operations in the vicinity of the
parks; increased difficulty in enforcing park boundaries and rules; environmental pollution or
human exposure to toxic materials from intensified agriculture or manufacturing enterprises;
displacement of vulnerable people (e.g. sharecroppers, women) from land or other important
resources to make way for Trust-funded activities.
8.     Park management grants will be provided to Uganda National Parks (UNP) to assist in
implementation of the management plans for BINP and MGNP. UNP will submit proposals to
the TMB for MBIFCT funding of specific activities or aspects of its operations in and around
these parks. There is little risk of negative ecological impacts from Trust-funded park
management activities, except in the possible case of infrastructure development (e.g. roads).
Negative socio-economic impacts could result from improved park management which is expected
to strengthen enforcement of restrictions on local peoples' access to forest resources which have
traditionally represented an important source of food, materials and income, and which continue
to do so to some extent now, albeit illegally. This impact will fall disproportionately on those
who continue to be the most dependent on such access because they lack other means, particularly
land for cultivation. Any acquisition of additional land for BINP or MGNP could also displace
people from their source of livelihood.
9.     Research component grants will be provided to research organizations and to
individuals submitting proposals which are consistent with the framework to be developed under



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
the coordination of the Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC) and UNP. Emphasis will
be placed on establishing baseline data and monitoring ecological, socio-economic and
anthropological trends, and on adaptive research aimed at assisting park management. No direct
negative environmental or social impacts are anticipated from research activities; rather, research
may play an important role in identifying and mitigating possible negative impacts associated with
other activities.
RESETTLEMENT
10.    When the BINP was gazetted in 1991, it incorporated a 10 km2 area (the Mbwa River
Tract) which was not previously part of the Forest Reserve, although the Forest Department had
long intended to add this tract to the Reserve. The area was allocated to a locally powerful
individual in 1990, after which some of it was settled by relatives of this individual and other
parts cultivated by people who have residences elsewhere. As GOU policy does not permit
people to reside or cultivate inside a national park, these people are required to vacate this area.
Furthermore, it is believed that mountain gorillas once inhabiting this area are likely to return if
the natural vegetation is allowed to regenerate, and its accessibility makes it potentially very
important as a gorilla tourism site. While this resettlement is not the direct result of the GEF
project, it represents an integral part of the BINP management which the project aims to support.
Therefore, it has been agreed that the resettlement must be consistent with Bank policies.
11.   The project working paper on socio-cultural issues provides details on the background of
the situation and the approach to be followed, including an outline which .was followed by UNP in
preparing a resettlement plan for this area. Because of the small number of people involved, and
because all but one of the residents and cultivators reportedly have other lands and homes to
which they can return, Bank requirements are satisfied by providing cash compensation. As the
people entered the area prior to its gazettement as part of the national park, UNP has agreed to
provide compensation not only for structures and permanent crops (UNP will permit people to
harvest the last annual crops, which are ready in late October), but also for the current market
value of the cultivated land. A survey was carried out to collect the data necessary to plan and
implement this compensation, identifying each household's assets and composition and other
relevant demographic information, as well as consultations with the affected people concerning the
forum for distribution of funds, date of evacuation and their plans regarding use of the money
provided. UNP submitted a draft resettlement plan for discussion at negotiations. It has since
been completed in a form acceptable to the Bank and will be implemented as a condition of
project effectiveness, as specified in a side letter to the Grant Agreement, which calls for the
actual funds to have been distributed, or placed in an escrow account preparatory for distribution
following procedures indicated in the resettlement planl/. The compensation procedures
generally follow the example of a UNP operation to clear encroachers from MGNP earlier this
year, and benefits from the lessons learned through that exercise. A follow-up study will be
undertaken in Year 2 (under the Monitoring and Evaluation program) to track the impact of this
resettlement and cash compensation on the people involved.
1/ The funds for compensation and resettlement assistance for the displaced people are being
provided under a GEF Project Preparation Advance.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
12.   Indigenous people World Bank policies also call for evaluating the impacts of all
projects on indigenous people, and for measures to enable them to share in project benefits to the
extent possible, in accordance with their own needs and priorities. In the proposed project area
there is a small group of Batwa (ca. 600-1000 people, less than one percent of the total target
population), forest dwellers who once occupied what are now the BINP and MGNP. When these
areas became Forest and Game Reserves in the 1930's, with human occupation and hunting
formally banned, these forest dwellers began to shift out of the shrinking forest area and began
spending more time as share-croppers and laborers on their neighbors' farms. However, they still
had access to many forest resources and the forests continued to be economically and culturally
important to them. The gazetting of the areas as national parks has virtually eliminated access to
these opportunities for all local people, but the impact has been particularly harsh on the Batwa
because they are landless and economically and socially disadvantaged, and have few other
resources or options.
13.    The younger generation of the Batwa are now largely more interested in assimilation and
participation in national life on an equal footing with other Ugandans than in recapturing or
pursuing their traditional life style. One objective of the MBIFCT will be to help the Batwa
achieve a better quality of life through providing funding for activities and projects which meet
their perceived needs and priorities. This may include, among other options, some preference
and special assistance for the Batwa to take advantage of the limited opportunities for sustainable
use of forest resources in the planned "multiple use zones" of the parks.
14.    The TAU will be tasked with assisting the Batwa to identify and articulate their needs (in
the form of funding proposals) and to gain effective representation in the Trust's decision-making
process and (together with CARE/DTC and UNP staff) in park management planning. Initial
studies undertaken during project preparation have laid a good groundwork for developing an
approach to achieve these objectives. A more detailed and targeted anthropological study will
follow, funded by a GEF Project Preparation Advance, based on terms of reference agreed during
the appraisal mission. The CARE/DTC project will employ a local anthropologist on a long-term
basis, who will be based in Kabale and will assist the TAU to implement the recommendations of
the study. The project working paper on socio-cultural issues provides details of the current
status of the Batwa, the anthropological study to be undertaken, and the proposed approach for
assisting the Batwa to participate in, and to benefit from, the MBIFCT and park management
overall.
MITIGATION PLAN
15.   Subgrants: All proposals for subgrants will be screened by the TAC to identify any risks
of negative environmental and/or socio-economic impacts. The TAC will therefore include
specialists covering a diversity of ecological, environmental, sociological and economic
disciplines. When needed, the TAC will advise the TAU to arrange for impact assessment,
drawing upon the TAU budget's consultant component. For community development projects,
the LCSC will also play an important role in identifying and mitigating any negative social
impacts (by rejecting or calling for modifications of proposals), based on the LCSC members'
more intimate familiarity with the local situation. The LCSC includes two representatives of



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
women's groups to help ensure that womens' needs and interests are not overlooked. In the case
of park management activities, the TAC will ensure that they are consistent with both the
MBIFCT's objectives and the park management plans. Any proposals involving infrastructure
development or land acquisition will receive particular scrutiny. To ensure adequate consultation
with the communities surrounding the parks, the TMB will request that the proposals also be
endorsed by the BINP or MGNP Park Management Advisory Committee. Follow-up review and
monitoring of the progress and impacts of implementation of projects (which could lead to
revision or termination of a given project if necessary) will be principally the responsibility of the
TAU, based in part on data to be generated through Trust-funded research activities.
16.   Resettlement Plan: A resettlement plan as described in Para. I I and the project working
paper has been approved by the Bank and USAID and will be implemented as a condition of grant
effectiveness, as described in the side letter to the Grant Agreement.
17. Indigenous Peoples Plan: A plan for ensuring the participation and benefit of the Batwa, as
discussed in Para 13, has been approved by the Bank. It will be revised as needed following
further anthropological and socio-economic studies of the local Batwa, to be carried out with
funding from the GEF Project Preparation Advance, beginning in early 1995.
COMMUNITY AND NGO PARTICIPATION
18.   Community participation is one of the principal objectives and characteristics of this
project. Community representatives participate as full partners in the two main decision-making
bodies, the TMB and the LCSC, which have been structured to balance the influence of local
communities with that of the other key stakeholders in the management of the BINP and MGNP,
i.e. conservationists and government authorities. In keeping with this approach, project design
and preparation have also been highly participatory, with community representatives participating
in the project preparation Task Force and workshop. One very time-consuming, but essential,
aspect of project preparation has been the process of enabling the local communities to select their
representatives to sit on the LCSC and TMB, through an acceptably transparent and democratic
process (through the RC3's). They will continue to be fully responsible for organizing their
participation, including rotating voting responsibilities on the LCSC and replacing LCSC and
TMB members whose terms have expired. Community participation has also become a priority in
the UNP approach to park management, with the formulation of Park Management Advisory
Committees (PMACs). The BINP-PMAC has played an active role in developing and reviewing
the BINP management plan, and the same process is being followed for the MGNP management
plan.
19.   The local communities will continue to be integrally involved in project implementation,
both with respect to deciding on allocation of the Trust's annual income (through the LCSC for
community projects and through the PMAC for park management activities) and with respect to
identifying (proposing) and carrying out the community development projects. A major
responsibility of the TAU will be to assist community groups to improve their organization and
capacity to identify, formulate and implement projects.
20.    Participation by local and international NGOs is similarly integral to the project. Like
local communities they have participated in the preparation Task Force and will be equal partners



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
in the TMB and LCSC. Beyond this, a number of NGOs (CARE-Uganda, WWF, FFPS, AWF,
IGCP, GAPS, Wildlife Clubs of Uganda, MUIENR) have played a critical role in developing and
supporting the community conservation, park management and research programs for which the
MBIFCT will provide incremental support. This involvement is expected to continue in the
implementation phase, with close collaboration between the TAU and the staff of these programs.
For example, CARE/DTC extension staff will provide much of the public awareness raising and
outreach for the MBIFCT, and local and international conservation and research institutions
(ITFC, EAWS-Uganda, EABWG, Makerere University, etc.) will be primarily responsible for
developing and implementing the research component, including the critical monitoring and
evaluation aspect.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy and Supervision Plan
OVERVIEW
1.    A prime objective of GEF projects is to serve as learning experiences and to demonstrate
different approaches to conservation. This requires that every project include a well-planned
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) program, integral to the project design and instituted from the
beginning of the project. Conventional conservation projects often support detailed baseline
surveys, without providing resources continue the work or support the institutional and human
resource base needed to maintain the effort. 'rhe isolated data from these studies are of limited
use. A long-term funding mechanism such as the MBIFCT provides a real opportunity for
establishing and implementing a sustainable monitoring program. The other essential factor for
ensuring the usefulness of any data collected is incorporation into an accessible database.
2.    This project has four main objectives which must form the core of an M&E strategy:
(1) to promote the long-term conservation and biodiversity value of the BINP and MGNP
including, but not limited to, their populations of mountain gorillas and other endangered
species (i.e., ecological and conservation aspects: see Paras. 9 - 16 below),
(2) to promote community development and enhance community welfare in direct support
of conservation objectives (i.e., socio-economic aspects: see Paras. 17 - 21 below),
(3) to demonstrate a novel, highly participatory, institutional mechanism for allocating and
disbursing funds for conservation programs (Para. 24 below), and
(4) to test the appropriateness and effectiveness of a trust fund as a financing mechanism
for conservation (Para. 23 below).
3.    The greatest challenge is to identify effective and feasible ecological and socio-economic
indicators which can provide information on the impact of project interventions, against a
background of complex and dynamic systems which are simultaneously subject to numerous other
influences.
General M & E Strateav
4.    Monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of the project vis a vis these objectives
would be carried out at four levels:
(1)   internal, routine M&E of day-to-day operations to help improve administration
and implementation of the program through an "adaptive management" approach.
This would be undertaken by the TAU and funding is included in the TAU
budget. The TAU would provide quarterly and annual reports to the TMB;



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
(2)    annual monitoring undertaken or commissioned by the TMB, as part of its
responsibility to ensure that the Trust is fulfilling its objectives and the funds are
being used appropriately and effectively (also included in the TAU budget as a
cost of trust administration);
(3)    semi-annual operational supervision by the Bank (and USAID and the GOU as
they require), for the first 5 years of Trust operation, to evaluate overall
implementation, to identify and correct any fundamental design problems and to
evaluate the overall impact of the project and achievement of its objectives; and
(4)    evaluation by GEF for the purpose of gleaning lessons and experience for the
wider conservation community (to be organized and funded by the GEF
Administration at its discretion).
5.     Level (1) would focus particularly on the day-to-day implementation and impacts of the
projects funded by the Trust. It would include tracking the implementation of projects by
community groups and evaluation of their effectiveness in achieving the Trust's specific
operational objectives, This would be primarily the responsibility of the TAU, based on and
guidelines set out in Trust Administration Manual, and would include beneficiary participation
through self-evaluation by grant recipients.
6.     At level (2), the TMB would review the performance of the TAU, the LCSC and the
recipients of grants with respect to day-to-day administration and implementation, community
outreach and the impact of funded activities. This review would also involve a broader
assessment of the effectiveness of the overall program--the types of projects being funded, the
effectiveness and contributions of the TAC, the transparency and efficiency with which funds are
being allocated and used, the adequacy of the accounting systems, the types and distribution of
groups receiving funding, the indications of positive impacts on conservation, community attitudes
(including their attitudes toward the MBIFCT itself) and community economic and social
development.
7.     Level (3) would address largely the same aspects as level (2), but from the perspective of
the funding agencies and the GOU which proposed the project for GEF funding. It would
therefore include an assessment of the performance of the TMB, with respect to both its day-to-
day functioning and its overall fulfillment of its responsibilities and objectives under the Trust
Deed. It would also involve an evaluation of the trust fund approach as a financing mechanism
for conservation. In light of the novel and experimental nature of the project design, the
supervision plan would include a comprehensive "mid-term" review at the end of Year 2, and a
"final" review at the end of Year 5 at which time significant changes could be made in any of the
basic design elements before the Trust is "cut loose" from external supervision and controls. The
mid-term review would also provide an opportunity to evaluate the financial status of the
MBIFCT with a view toward seeking additional contributions to the capital or administrative costs
if needed in order to ensure financial sustainability.
8.     Level (4) would take the broadest view, addressing all of these aspects but with a
particular view to deriving lessons for application to other projects and to determining the extent
to which the approach should or can be replicated elsewhere.



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
M & E OF ECOLOGICAL AND CONSERVATION ASPECTS
Obiectives
9.    Monitoring and evaluation of ecological and conservation impacts would examine the
overall changes and trends in the conservation status of BINP and MGNP and of keystone or focal
species, and would try to the extent possible to determine the extent to which the project
(MBIFCT) contributes to these trends. It would include the following elements:
(1) collection of baseline data on a specified set of parameters (indicators) to establish the
starting conditions;
(2) monitoring the status, changes and trends in these indicators over time; and
(3) evaluatina the significance of changes and trends observed through the research
programl/.
10.    All of these aspects must be tailored to answer specific questions which are determined by
Park management objectives and the M & E program should provide information which will assist
periodic review and revision of park management plans. As no protected area exists in isolation,
the ecological and socio-economic M&E programs inter-link in tracking human factors which are
relevant to park management, such as: local attitudes toward the parks, conservation and wildlife;
community behavior in relation to conservation; and demographic changes including population
growth (which in extreme cases may be stimulated by in-migration due to the attraction of project
benefits). Similarly, M&E should address the use of the parks for research, training and
recreation, which are among the important objectives of maintaining a national park.
Developing the M&E Approach and Methodology
11.    Some of the baseline data relating to the levels and patterns of biological resources,
ecological conditions and human interactions with BINP and MGNP are already relatively well
developed while others are poor or non-existent. Gaps will be identified at the outset and
addressed in the research activities funded by MBIFCT.
12.   Designing and initiating the ecological M&E would be a major thrust of the Trust-funded
research activities in the first few years. The overall approach, including decisions on strategy
and methodology, would be based on the recommendations of workshop held in October, 1993,
organized by the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC) and the East Africa Wildlife
Society/Uganda (EAWLS/U). The main guiding principles are: (i) the use of the simplest, most
cost-effective and replicable methods possible to ensure long-term sustainability, and (ii)
compatibility with existing data storage and management systems at the national and international
levels, such as the National Biodiversity Data Base at Makerere University.
1/ Monitoring can indicate what changes are taking place; research is needed to tell why they are
taking place. The present ecosystems of both the BINP and MGNP reflect a histcry of human-
induced changes, so the overall management objective in many areas is not to maintain the status
quo but rather to facilitate a return to original conditions.



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
13.    The methodology would therefore include the use of statistical sampling methods and
indicators selected to facilitate tracking of both positive and negative trends in biodiversity
(community, species and genetic levels) and in ecosystem functions including physical parameters
such as stream flows, water quality and soil erosion. Special attention would be paid to
monitoring the impact of any harvesting of selected species in the multiple use zones and the
success of any management interventions aimed at restoring or rehabilitating damaged vegetative
communities (accelerated succession).
14.    As the areas involved are relatively small, the sampling methodologies would likely focus
on "on-the-ground" methods such as total counts of some species (e.g. gorillas) and ground counts
in fixed plots and transects. Participation by local communities should also be emphasized, as
they have a long history of use of certain forest products and therefore an awareness of their
status and abundance (e.g., recognizing changes in levels of effort required to harvest a given
product, changes in the locations where it is found, rarity or disappearance of a formerly common
species, arrival of an alien invading species). This participation could be facilitated through
specialized training or attachment to ongoing research activities.
15.   One specific form of M&E input which communities should be encouraged to undertake is
the compilation of a time line listing major events in the community's history that relate to
biodiversity conservation. In collaboration with local technicians, communities can provide
information on trends relating to such things as droughts, floods, fires, soil erosion, natural
vegetation cover, the presence or absence of conspicuous species, crop yields, and human
immigration and emigration, and community attitudes. Seasonal charts can be compiled to show
labor demands and availability, crop activity and plant diseases, and maps can show water
distribution and use-areas for various activities such as cultivation and livestock.
16.    An ecological/conservation M&E program, based on the recommendations of the ITFC-
EAWLS sponsored workshop was reviewed at negotiations. The ITFC would take the lead on
ecological M&E and research, in collaboration with the EAWLS and a recently formed multi-
disciplinary network of regional researchers, the Eastern Africa Biodiversity Working Group
(EABWG), which would provide technical assistance in the design and implementation of the
program. The MBIFCT Technical Advisory Committee would draw upon the framework
prepared by the workshop and the EABWG when reviewing research proposals presented for
MBIFCT funding.
M & E OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC ASPECTS
17.    Socio-economic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) should focus on the effectiveness of the
project in:
(1) improving perceptions of the Parks and understanding of their global and local
benefits;
(2) improving conservation practices and the sustainability of economic activities in the
catchment area;
(3) resolving park-community conflicts and promoting equitable participation in park
benefits, with special reference to resettled people and the Batwa; and



Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
(4) improving the socio-economic welfare of people in the surrounding communities.
18.   Adequate baseline data appear to be available on all of these points (though better data
will soon become available in some case, such as through the upcoming more detailed studies on
the Batwa). The survey data currently held at Makerere University (see MUIENR Baseline Study
Report, 1993) do not include quantitative data on household income and expenditure. An
additional survey specifically focussing on these questions would be very useful, especially if
carried out prior to project implementation. Reliable estimates could be generated from a
relatively small number of households, if an appropriate sample design is used.
19.   The M&E program should include replication of these baseline data at regular intervals,
say every two years, with more frequent monitoring of key indicators in each area. The results of
the first evaluation survey could be available for the mid-term review, although it is not to be
expected that significant long-term changes in welfare can be measured over this short time
period. Monitoring of indicators, to be planned by the TAU and carried out by field staff of the
participating agencies and NGOs, should feed into day-to-day decisions on park management and
into the process of screening proposals for the use of Trust funds. It is expected that the periodic
evaluation surveys would be managed by the TAU through contracts with local institutions.
20.    Special studies should be conducted of (a) impacts of tourism on local communities, (b)
the effects of compensation and resettlement on the affected people, and (c) the impacts of park
management activities on the welfare and way of life of the Batwa. The use of participatory
research methods in such studies should be encouraged, and to the extent feasible, they should be
carried out by suitably qualified local institutions or individual consultants. This minimum
program of special studies should be financed by the M&E funds managed by the TAU.
Additional studies may, of course, be approved for grant funding by the TAC under the research
program.
21.    The views of the LCSC should be sought on socio-economic research grant proposals,
although decision making responsibility will rest with the TAC since they would be part of the
research program. Reports produced by the research program and the M&E program should be
circulated to and discussed with the LCSC (as well as the TAC and PMACs), and should be made
available to the public at a project documentation center to be established at the TAU.
M & E OF INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
22. The MBIFCT is a mechanism both for providing long-term, reliable funding for conservation
programs and for enabling the key "stakeholders" to decide jointly how best to allocate the
available funds. These aspects should be monitored and evaluated separately, as either one could
succeed or fail independently of the other.
23.    As a funding mechanism, the MBIFCT also involves two aspects: the investment and
management of a capital fund to generate income for use to fund specified activities over the long
term, and the management and administration of that income including the overall flow of funds,
distribution of funds to the final beneficiaries and internal controls and reporting. For the first
aspect, M & E will need to address the appropriateness and effectiveness of the financial
management arrangements and the investment strategy for the capital fund in meeting the overall



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
objectives of financial viability and sustainability. For the second aspect, key indicators include:
(a) the cost-effectiveness and transparency of the administration procedures; (b) the
appropriateness of standard formats for project proposals particularly in relation to budgets and
disbursement schedules; (c) the nature and diversity of groups receiving grants (to determine
whether the mechanism is adequately accessible to the whole process to the target beneficiaries);
(d) the adequacy of the extension aspects, e.g. the overall level of community awareness of the
Trust's objectives and operations; (e) the effectiveness of the TAU in promoting community
organization for development and implementation of projects (including the special responsibilities
regarding the Batwa);
24.    As a mechanism for making decisions on allocation of funds for conservation, the aim is
for the MBIFCT to be truly representative of the key interest groups, effective in selecting
appropriate and viable projects for funding, democratic and transparent in its operations,
reasonably equitable in the distribution of benefits (although these should not be regarded as
entitlements but rather granted based on the merits of the proposals) and generally accepted as fair
and worthwhile by all concerned. M & E should therefore focus on aspects such as: (a) the
mechanisms for selection and replacement of TMB and LCSC members (including the addition of
interest-based community groups and the balance and "skills mix" on the TMB; (b) the variety
and quality (and, ultimately, success and impacts) of projects approved and their consistency with
the established criteria; (c) the appropriateness of the grant proposal formats; (d) types of groups
applying for and receiving grants (demographic, gender, ethnic and geographic distribution; level
and nature of the organization); (e) the effectiveness of TAU in identifying and helping to
develop good project proposals; (f) perspectives of local government officials and sectoral
ministries (do they regard the Trust as positive and complementary or as disruptive and/or
competitive, and are they actively cooperating to help ensure that projects are feasible and
successful?).
25.    The M&E approach is outlined in the Trust Administration Manual and will involve
considerable community participation (self-evaluation), with the TAU's role being less to carry
out routine evaluation than to verify information received and to identify and help solve common
problems identified in the monitoring reports. For individual projects, the level of effort for
monitoring, supervision and evaluation will depend on the size of the grant.
SUPERVISION STRATEGY
26.    The Bank will carry out semi-annual supervision missions, in cooperation with USAID
(and any other donors who may decide to contribute to MBIFCT) to review progress of
implementation, identify implementation problems and make recommendations for corrections
which can be made within the established institutional and operational framework. This
supervision will address, i.a.:
(1) adequacy of the institutional structure and its operational effectiveness and efficiency;
(2) compliance with any conditions and dated covenants agreed upon at negotiations;
(3) the adequacy of the ecological and sociological M&E programs to provide needed data
for evaluation of project impacts.



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
27.    A "mid-term" review will be carried toward the end of Year 2, aimed at reviewing the
overall viability and adequacy of the whole project approach and in particular the institutional
structure and operational modalities of the MBIFCT. Some of the specific issues to be examinea
include: (a) the financial management and accounting/auditing procedures, (b) the process of
replacement of LCSC and TMB members; (c) whether or not to incorporate the MBIFCT under
the Companies Act; (d) the frequency of TMB and LCSC meetings; (e) the adequacy of interest
income and funds available for subgrants; (f) the ratio of administrative costs to funds available
for disbursement to beneficiaries; etc.
28.    At this time recommendations might be made for significant structural adjustments or
changes that appear called for. A recommendation will be made regarding whether or not to seek
additional contributions to the capital and/or additional support to help meet administrative
costs2/. To the extent possible at this stage, ecological and socio-economic impacts will also be
examined. The appropriateness of investment arrangements and strategy for the capital will also
be reviewed, and the proposed timing of the "Final Review" will be reviewed.
29.    A "final" review will be carried out at the end of Year 5, to mark the end of direct World
Bank supervision and oversight. At this time there will be a thorough review of all aspects of the
structure and operations of the MBIFCT, and also a more detailed review of ecological and socio-
economic impacts. The final objective of this review will be to make a determination whether the
Trust should be: (a) "released" to operate without World Bank involvement; (b) maintained with
some further adjustment/restructuring and under continued World Bank supervision for a specified
time; or (c) dissolved and the GEF grant withdrawn (in the "worst case" scenario if it were
determined that the concept or implementation had somehow failed irreversibly.
2/ USAID has indicated its interest in principle in providing at least one additional year of
funding, if the mid-term review is generally positive but indicates such support is needed



X  \ ,-        (                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~UGANDA
MGAHINGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE
FOREST CONSERVATION TRUST
Project Area
|)  - ?                                                  - ,  S  ~  \    "/  PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
ZAIRE                                          -PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
---  UNSURFACED ROADS
To MborarR
'''RIVERS
0   SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
,f   DISTRICT CAPITALS
-'(tBulema    K      NRUKUNGIRI                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
TO                                                                    __                                         DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
tO #ShU                                                                  "">                  V                   s R >>SUB-COUNTY BOUNDARIES
Rutshuru ;-                                  - o-                                                          I       N PROJECT AREA ONLY (approximate)
_ :GoL           Kanungu                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
(  ,  , >  SbW  .  /    Ntungomo  *District ncmes coincide with district capitals.
Buhonio0Kitahurira
Bwindi Impeletrabfe
National Park.                   --    ,          --       -
Nteko       lrj:: ;e eeo'ch station
Mafunga9
LForest    -
Reserve
Lake        r     'kumb \
Mutand                / U M                                                                                      25                          50
;  -t                                                                                  I          I      Kilometers
KABALE
-TO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BW
ao (TKISORO-/                                                                                                                   SUDAN
RUShrU-_                                                                                         The boundories colors, denomoret  Kagera N. P  IETHIOPIA
ZAIRE           KENYA
1. ~~~~~~~~-                   RW~~~~~~AN DA-
C                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundarres, colors, denom,natrons and ony other ,nfornrotron  TANZANA   Idr 
shown on th,s mop do not mply, on the port of The World Bonk                    0ck05f
Group any rudgment on the engot status of any terrWtor or any    -
endorsement or acceptance of such boundorres.                  zeus A






- - -
I
I
I



Uganda
III  II IAhIII13111H1  liii 11111111
US$ 15
<3        Printed on recycled paper



