Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GET GRANT NUMBER 28670 UG
Project Agreement
(Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga
Gorilla National Park Conservation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Global
Environment Trust Fund
and
MGAHINGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE FOREST
CONSERVATION TRUST
Dated March 7, 1995
GET GRANT NUMBER 28670 UG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 7, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT acting as Trustee of Grant Funds provided by Participants of the 
Global Environment Facility into the Global Environment Trust Fund (GET) (the Trustee) 
and MGAHINGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE FOREST CONSERVATION TRUST (MBIFCT).
WHEREAS (A) by a GET Grant Agreement of even date herewith (the GET Grant 
Agreement) between the Republic of Uganda (the Recipient) and the Trustee, the Trustee 
has agreed to make available to the Recipient an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
2,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the GET Grant Agreement, but only 
on condition that MBIFCT agree to undertake such obligations toward the Trustee as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS (B)
the proceeds of the GET Grant provided for under the GET Grant 
Agreement will be made available to MBIFCT; and
WHEREAS MBIFCT, in consideration of the Trustee's entering into the GET Grant 
Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the GET Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) MBIFCT declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GET Grant Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and social practices, consistent 
with the Trust Deed, Bye-laws, MOU, TAM and IPP with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Trustee and MBIFCT shall otherwise agree, MBIFCT shall carry out the 
Project in accor-dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the funds provided by MBIFCT shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. MBIFCT shall carry out the obliga-tions set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively).
Section 2.04. (a) MBIFCT shall, at the request of the Trustee, exchange views 
with the Trustee with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the Trust Deed, Bye-laws, MOU, the Trust 
Administration Manual and other matters relating to the purposes of the GET Grant.
(b)
MBIFCT shall promptly inform the Trustee of any proposed change to the 
documents referred to in Section 2.04 (a) above and any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the GET Grant, the Trust Deed, the Bye-laws, the MOU, the Trust 
Administration Manual, or the performance by MBIFCT of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of MBIFCT
Section 3.01. MBIFCT shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound investment, administrative, financial, environmental, ecological 
and social practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. MBIFCT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Trustee for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) MBIFCT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
MBIFCT shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
Page  3
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably 
requested including, inter alia, a thorough review of adherence to 
TAM; and
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Trustee shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
MBIFCT shall cause an audit of its first six months of operations to be 
prepared and furnished to the Trustee, in such detail as the Trustee shall have 
reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GET Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Trustee and of MBIFCT 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GET Grant Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Trustee shall promptly notify MBIFCT 
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For MBIFCT:
Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest
  Conservation Trust
P.O. Box 4241
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
MINTOUR
62218
Kampala
TOURISM UG
Page  4
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of MBIFCT may be 
taken or executed by the Trust Administrator or such other person or persons as the 
Trust Administrator shall designate in writing, and MBIFCT shall furnish to the 
Trustee sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as Trustee of the Global Environment
  Trust Fund
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
MGAHINGA AND BWINDI IMPENETRABLE FOREST
  CONSERVATION TRUST
By /s/ Paul Mukasa-Ssali
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Procurement of goods works and services for subprojects to be carried out under 
the Project shall be procured under local proce- dures, acceptable to the Trustee, 
consistent with the Guidelines and the Trust Administration Manual.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
TMB
1.
(a)
TMB shall be responsible for the operations and management of MBIFCT and 
for the overall implementation of the Project with the assistance of TAU, LCSC and a 
TAC consisting of local technical specialists, to be appointed by TMB.
(b)
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, TMB shall: (i) 
arrange for and oversee the investment of MBIFCT's capital; (ii) allocate the annual 
income based on proposals from UNP, researchers and community groups; (iii) implement 
the IPP; (iv) cause accounts to be prepared and audited; and (v) monitor and 
periodically furnish to the Recipient and the Trustee reports on the implementation of 
the Project and the accomplishment of its objectives.
(c)
TMB shall, unless otherwise agreed with the Trustee, meet at least 
quarterly to, inter alia, decide on the allocation of income accrued in the preceding 
quarter.
(d)
TMB shall promptly adopt an investment strategy and thereafter appoint an 
Page  5
assets manager, all satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.
TMB shall, (a) for each year of Project implementation, cause comprehensive 
annual work plans for TAU and for the implementation of Parts B and C of the Project, 
including proposed allocations of funds, to be prepared and furnished to the Trustee 
for its review and comments.    
(b)
TMB shall furnish to the Trustee, for its review and comments, MBIFCT's 
quarterly work plans, including proposed releases of funds in the ensuing quarter;
(c)
The Trustee's views on the work plans referred to in (a) and (b) above 
shall be duly incorporated in such plans prior to TMB's final approval thereof.
3.
TMB shall take all measures necessary to ensure that by the expected completion 
date of the Project, the projected ratio of 2:1 in the use of MBIFCT's income for 
administrative costs versus Project implementation-related expenditures, shall be 
substantially reversed.
LCSC
4.
(a)
LCSC, comprising representatives of major stakeholders including 
wardens-in-charge of BINP and MGNP, the field staff of NGOs active in the area and 
local communities, shall serve as the main liaison between TMB and the communities.
(b)
LCSC shall be authorized to approve subprojects to be financed under Part 
A of the Project not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000 per subproject; subprojects in 
excess of $1,000, shall be approved by TMB. 
(c)
LCSC shall ensure that beneficiaries of subprojects to be financed under 
part A of the Project shall contribute matching funds in cash or in kind and undertake 
to take appropriate measures and make arrangements for accountability and the 
long-term sustainability of subprojects.
TAC
5.
TAC shall assist TMB in evaluating the ecological, economic, environmental and 
social soundness of proposed subprojects and may, if it deems it necessary, recommend 
the hiring of short-term experts to review the soundness of subprojects.
TAU
6.
TAU, shall be based in Kabale and consist of a Trust Administrator, a Deputy 
Trust Administrator, two Community Extension workers and support staff, all to be 
employed by, and to be answerable to, TMB and whose qualifications and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. TAU shall be 
responsible for: (a) community outreach in collaboration with NGOs and UNP extension 
staff; (b) receiving, vetting and submitting community proposals to TAC, LCSC and TMB; 
(c) ensuring the adequate participation of indigenous people in the Project area 
consistent with the IPP; (d) disbursing funds to recipient groups in accordance with 
disbursement procedures satisfactory to the Trustee, for goods, works and services 
procured in accordance with procedures consistent with the Guidelines and TAM; (e) 
maintaining financial records and accounts and furnishing reports to the Trustee; and 
(f) monitoring and evaluation of implementation of subprojects receiving MBIFCT 
support.
7.
(a)
MBIFCT shall conduct, not later than two years after the Effective Date 
of the Grant Agreement jointly with the Trustee, a midterm review of the Project. 
Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the review shall, inter alia, 
cover an evaluation of asset management performance relative to projected financial 
objectives, progress towards reversing the 2:1 ratio of administration costs to 
Project implementation-related expenditures, administration procedures and costs, the 
adequacy of subproject selection criteria and implementation, effectiveness of 
community representation in LCSC and TMB, effectiveness of the monitoring and 
evaluation procedures, the implementation and management aspects of the Project, 
progress in the implementation of the IPP, progress made by the Project including 
reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement procedures and the overall 
sustainability of the Project.
(b)
Not later than ninety (90) days prior to the midterm review referred to 
in (a) above, MBIFCT shall furnish to the Trustee, for its comments, a report in such 
detail as the Trustee shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the 
progress achieved in implementing the Project.
Page  6
(c)
MBIFCT shall, promptly thereafter, carry out the recommendations stemming 
from the aforementioned review.
