                                       Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                        ReportNo.:39859




                 PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                                REPUBLICOFUGANDA

     BWINDIIMPENETRABLE NATIONALPARKAND MGAHINGA GORILLA
                    NATIONALPARKCONSERVATIONPROJECT
                              (GET GRANTNO. 28670UG)




                                       May25,2007




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group (world Bank)

Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = UgandaShillings (USh)

19xx                      US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo              UShOO.OO
19xx                                           UShOO.OO
19xx                      US$l.oo              UshOO.OO
19xx                      US$l.oo              UshOO.OO
19Xx                      US$l.oo              UshOO.OO
2001                      US$l-00              Ush1780



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BINP         BwindiImpenetrableNational Park
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IEG          Independent Evaluation Group
IEGWB        Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
DGIS         RoyalNetherlandsGovernment
EMP          Ecological Monitoring Program
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GOU          Government of Uganda
ITFC         Institute o f Tropical Forest Conservation
LCSC         Local Community Steering Committee
MAM          MercuryAsset Management
MBIFCT Mgahinga BwindiImpenetrableForest Conservation Trust
MGNP         Mgahinga Gorilla National Park
MTR          Mid-TermReview
NEAP         National Environment Action Plan
NGO          Non-Government Organization
PAMSU ProtectedAreas Management and SustainableUse Project
PPAR         Project PerformanceAssessment Report
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
TAC          Technical Advisory Committee
TAU          Trust Administration Unit
TMB          Trust ManagementBoard
UWA          Uganda Wildlife Authority



Fiscal Year

Government:               July 1-June 30


Director-General,IndependentEvaluation                 : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (WorldBank)       : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic andGlobalEvaluationDivision  : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr.JohnRedwood

                                                               i

I IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.              I
 About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first,to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluation processandto verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
 expected results,and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the
 disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As partof this work, IEGWBannually assesses about 25 percent of
 the Bank's lendingoperations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preferenceis given to those
 that are innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
 which ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requestedassessments; and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons.
       To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examines project files and other
 documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
 and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
 in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
 internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
 relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
 the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
 the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
 lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
 arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
 (additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
 be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
 relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
 objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
 sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
 Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, and Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to
 which the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's
 objectives were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency
 is the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of
 capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to
 adjustment operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory,
 Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
 expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
 Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
 operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
 transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loadcredit closing, toward the
 achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
 Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
 Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
 agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
 agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
 performance and implementingagency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
 Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
 Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                        111



Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS               ....................................................................................................................          V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                     ..........................................................................................................          V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................           vi1


SUMMARY      .....................................................................................................................................            IX


1.      BACKGROUND                 .................................................................................................................           i


2.      PROJECT DESCRIPTION                        .................................................................................................           3

        PROJECT OBJECTIVES                       ...................................................................................................           3
        PROJECT COMPONENTS                          ................................................................................................           4
        ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE                                 ....................................................................................          4


3.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                             .........................................................................................           6


4.      PROJECT ASSESSMENTAND RATINGS                                           .......................................................................        7

        OUTCOME          ..........................................................................................................................            7
             Relevance .................................................................................................................................. 8
             Efficacy.......................................................................................................................................   9
             Efficiency..................................................................................................................................     19
        RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES                                       .........................................................................          21
        BANK PERFORMANCE                        ..................................................................................................            22
        BORROWER PERFORMANCE                               .......................................................................................            24
        MONITORING & EVALUATION: DESIGN, IMPLEMENTATION, AND UTILIZATION                                                                                    ..25

5.      LESSONS LEARNED                     ......................................................................................................            27


ANNEX A BASIC DATA SHEET
           .                                      ................................................................................................            31


ANNEX B ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
           .                                                    ...................................................................................           33


ANNEX C PERSONS MET IN UGANDA
           .                                                  ....................................................................................            35




This reportwas preparedby Walter Arensberg (Consultant) basedon field work done by JohnRedwood
andLaurenKelly inMay 2006              .Ms. Soon        Pakprovidedadministrativesupport                            .


                                                     V




PRINCIPAL RATINGS

                                   ICR*                  ICR Review*                   PPAR

Outcome                 Highly Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory    Satisfactory
Institutional           High                        High
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                                        Moderate
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***       Highly Likely               Likely
Bank                    Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Performance
Borrower                Highly Satisfactory         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Performance
M &E                                                                           Modest
* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department.The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactis assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1, 2006, Sustainabilityhas been replacedby Risk to Development Outcome.As the scales are
different,the ratingsare not directly comparable.




KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE


Project             Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                     Sector Director
Appraisal                 Agnes I. Kiss              Sushma Ganguly               Francis X. Colaco
Completion           Nathalie W. Johnson             Roger C. Sullivan            James W. Adams


                                             vii



PREFACE

        This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) preparedby the
IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) for the Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and
Mgahinga GorillaNational Park ConservationProject (P002893). The Project created
the Mgahinga BwindiImpenetrableForest Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) which was the
first conservation fund to be supportedby the GEF inAfrica. Launched inMay 1991
during the "Pilot Phase" ofthe GEF, the project was approvedby the Board inJanuary
1995 andbecameeffective on July 12, 1995. After a one year extension, the Project
closedon December 31,2000.

        The PPAR examinesthe entire history ofthe MBIFCT from project preparationto
mid-2006. It is basedon reviewsofthe Project Document, Bank files onproject
preparation, appraisal, and negotiation, the Grant Agreement, available supervision
reports and the Mid-TermReview, a USAID evaluation, andmaterials and annual reports
(1997-2002/2002-2005) preparedby MBIFCT, interviewswith key Bank staff, andthe
results of an IEGMission to Uganda in June 2006. The mission interviewed key staff at
the MBIFCT andthe UgandaWildlife Authority, park wardens, and community members
affected by the project, as well as representativesofNGOs and GOU officials.

        The cooperation andassistanceof GOU officials, the World Bank Country Office
inKampala, the staff ofthe MBIFCT andUWA, andother stakeholdersis gratefully
acknowledged.

        FollowingstandardIEGprocedures, copies ofthe draft PPAR were sent to the
GOU for review and comment, but none were received.     .


                                             ix



SUMMARY

         The BwindiImpenetrableNational Park andMgahingaGorillaNational Park
ConservationProject was designedto contribute to the preservation o f two important
Ugandanparks that together contain globally significant ecosystems and extremely rare flora
and fauna, including the endangered mountaingorilla. Its specific objective was to establish
the Mgahinga Bwindi Impenetrable Forest ConservationTrust (MBIFCT) to provide long-
term financing for park management activities, specialized research, and small development
projects for local communities surrounding the two parks. The project sought to test the use
o f a trust fund for these purposes, andto enhance community ownership o f the mechanism by
assuring a high-level local stakeholder participationinthe decision-making processes o fthe
trust. The MBIFCT became effective on July 12, 1995 with a GEF grant o f US$4.3 million
investedinthe Trust Fund. During its first seven years o f operation, co-financing secured
from USAID (US$890,700) andthe Government o f the Netherlands (DGIS) (US$2.7
million) enabled the initial investment inthe Trust Fundto grow virtually unimpeded.With
closing ofthe DGIS grant in2003, the Trust has begundrawing regularly on income from the
Fund.The World Bankclosed theproject on December 31,2000.

         After ten years of operation, the MBIFCT canbejudged a success. Eventhough its
recordmay not be perfect, the project's overall outcome is satisfactory and it has met most o f
its specific objectives effectively. Conserving biodiversity inthe two parks i s directly
relevant to the global environmentalobjectives o f the GEF andto the development strategy
o f the UgandanGovernment. Due to a sound co-financing strategy and good management,
the Trust Fundhas grow over thetenyears o f its existence from US$4.3 millionto
approximately US$ 6.8 million, but is still shy o f the US$ 7.5 millionprojected for long-term
stability. Moreover, the MBIFCT's Trust Management Board (TMB) and Local Community
Steering Committee have provento be innovative, community-driven mechanisms for
allocating and disbursing small development grants. Eventhough achievement o fthe
project's research andpark management objectives has beenmodest, the cumulative effect o f
the Trust's community development grants, especially the participatory process of awarding
grants, has made a substantial contributionto local awareness and commitment to park
protection.

         The mainreservations cloudingthis otherwise positive assessmenthave to do with (a)
the difficulty o f determiningthe extent o fthe project's impacts on biodiversity conservation
inthe parks, aweakness derived, inpart, from its only modest efforts at monitoringand
evaluation (M&E), and (b) the unintendedconsequences o f the project's co-financing
strategy. While there i s no question that the project achieved its specific objective o f
establishing a Trust mechanism that, as intended, has effectively made grants for community
development, parks management and research, evidence regardingthe impacts o f these
grants i s limited. The Project Document emphasized the importance o f M&Eand offered
guidance for the designo f a system. The Trust did establish procedures for gathering
information on its outputs, but, despite repeated encouragement from the Bank,the Trust
never designeda systematic methodfor determining impact o f its activities. Although the
EcologicalMonitoring Programhas made it possibleto identifl some trends inthe healtho f
the parks, the absenceo f a well-functioning M&Esystem for the Trust operation itselflimits
the extent to which trends canbeattributed to MBIFCT activities.

                                                 X



        The Bank's co-financing strategy helpedestablish the MBIFCT immediately as a
significant actor, providing it with administrative andoperating funds to begingrant-making
immediately, while simultaneously allowing the capital fund room to grow unburdened by
draw downs for these costs. But the strategy also postponed the date when the TMB would
begindraw downs on the trust fund. As a result, the fund didnot pursue the proactive
fundraising that would be needed after the DGIS resources were consumed. N o w that the
MBIFCT is predominantly dependent on income from the trust, it hasto reduce its funding
for research andpark management and tighten its operating expenditures. The long-term
effect o f this i s unclear, but, inthe short run, it will reduce the project's scope and impact.

        The project clearly demonstrates that a Trust Fundcanprovide a stable source of
funding for activities aimedat biodiversity conservation. Italso shows that the legitimacy
and effectiveness of atrust is enhanced by incorporatingkey local andother stakeholders in
decision making regarding its overall management and grant making. Butthese key lessons
mustbe accompaniedby some caveats, most importantly:

    0   Careful consideration should be givento sizing and managing the assets o f the Fund
        so that it can generate sufficient income to cover program operational and
        administrativecosts for a sufficient lengtho f time to ensure the agreed conservation
        gains.
    0   Securing initial co-financing for the start up o f a Fundoffers an effective way o f for
        testing fund managers and investment strategies while allowing time for the Fundto
        reinvest gains unburdened by draw downs on income. However, to avoid distorting
        expectations and encouraging donor dependence, the co-financing strategy should not
        involve more annual funding thanwill be available fiom the trust fund inthe future.
        A conservation trust must be prepared to accept that, ifthe trust's grant-making
        operations are based on local community participationand decision-making, priority
        will be givento local development and community welfare needs over strictly
        biodiversity conservation objectives.
        A trust aimed at fundingsmall grants for community development and/or productive
        activities mustrecognize that grant implementationand oversight may require heavy
        inputs oftechnical support. This assistance should be considered parto fthe
        development mission and operational budget o f the Trust rather thana narrow
        administrative function.
    0   Unless an early, deliberate and sustained effort i s made to install and implement
        M&Esystems inaproject, they willtake a back seatto immediateoperationalneeds.
        Fundsand staff should be assigned to M&Eearly on.
    0   For innovative projects like the MBIFCT, the Bank should invest heavily indefining
        and securing agreements andinstructuringthe administrative, legal, andfinancial
        aspects o fthe project during project preparationso that the Trust can begin operations
        immediately upon becoming effective.


                                                                        Vinod Thomas
                                                                        Director-General
                                                                           Evaluation

                                                   1



1. BACKGROUND

1.1      Duringthe past 20 years, Ugandahasbecome amodel ofgrowthandstability in
sub-SaharanAfrica. Following over a decade o f dictatorship andcivil strife, the
government o f the National Resistance Movement set the country on a path to recovery
that has shownimpressiveresults. Although Ugandaremains one ofthe poorer countries
inAfrica, ithasmade advances onmany fronts, includinginthe management of
environment andnatural resources. Since 1986, the Government o f Uganda(GOU) has
pursued a disciplined development strategy that produced growth rates o f 6.9 percent
duringthe 1990's (compared to 2.2 percent for sub-SaharanAfrica as a whole) anda
respectable 5.5 percent growth rate from 2000 to 2005.' The country also has made
progress on reducing poverty and improving social welfare, althoughthere are still
notable differences between urbanandrural areas. At 2.8 percent per year, the population
growth rate i s still exceptionally high.Despitethe rapidly growing population, the
proportion o f the populationliving belowthe poverty line declined from 56 percent in
1992to 34 percent in2000. Social indicators also improvedover the past decade,
according to the 2004 Poverty EradicationAction Plan(PEAP). The country's rankingin
UNDP's HumanDevelopment Report improvedfrom 154* out o f 173 countries in 1994
to 144 out of 177 countries in2005.

1.2      The period from 1990to 2006 also produced a markedimprovement inthe
GOU's capacity to manage the country's environment and natural resources. InAugust
1990, the government launched aNational EnvironmentalAction Plan(NEAP) process to
identifycritical environmentalproblems facing the country and to propose
comprehensive policy, legal, and institutional frameworks. The findings and
recommendations o f the NEAP, which was completed in 1995, reflected a broad
consensus derivedfrom a multi-stakeholder process involving specialized consultants and
participants from government, business, universities, NGOs, andcivil society. The NEAP
laid the foundation for the National Environment Management Policy in 1994 and the
National Environment Statute (NES)2,which established the legal framework and
institutional arrangements for environmentalmanagement inUganda. The semi-
autonomous National Environment Management Authority (NEMA), linked to the
MinistryofWater, LandsandEnvironment, was establishedin1995.

1.3      Along with the creation o fNEMA, Uganda has put inplace an array of
environmental and natural resources legislation, policies, regulations, and programs: in
1995, the Constitutionwas amendedto make protectionandmanagement o f the
environment an explicit responsibility o f the State; the National Environment Act was
enacted in 1995 to foster sustainable development; andnew legislative acts have been
passedon water (1995), wildlife (1996), forestry (2003) and mining(2003). Ugandaalso
adopted legislationto regulate waste, wetlands, water, mountain areas andnoise, and



1.Joint Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Uganda (2005-2009) Report No. 34310-UG, WorldBank-
et-al, December 14, 2005.
2. Now the National Environment Act Cap 153

                                              2


issued policies and procedures for environmental assessmentsand audits. Responsibility
for implementing these policies falls to the various sector ministries and agencies, with
NEMA ina coordinatingandmonitoringrole.

1.4     The international donor community andthe World Bank inparticular, has been
the driving force behindcreation o fmuch o f Uganda's institutionalframework for
environmental management and conservation. Donors andNGOs, especially USAID,
heavily backedNEAPpreparation. The World Bank supported the development o f
NEMAthroughto two successiveinvestment projects-EnvironmentalManagementand
CapacityBuilding Project (EMCB I& 11). Bank and GEF funding also supportedthe
two phases o f the ProtectedAreas Management andSustainable Use (PAMSU) Project.
Additionally, the Bank invested heavily inbuildingregional capacity to manage Lake
Victoria. As Bank funding for these projects comes to a close, project-implementing
agencies are working to assurethe financial sustainability o f these projects through
regular funding from the GOUbudget, as well as additional donor support. According to
theointAssistance Strategyfor the Republic of Ugandafor 2005-2009, sector wide
lendingis anticipated for 2009 to support the naturalresources management mandates of
Ugandanenvironmental institutions as well as direct funds to activities related to
agriculture, land use, water and wetlands, and urbanenvironment.

1.5     The Bwindi ImpenetrableNational Park and theMgahinga GorillaNational Park
ConservationProject (P002893) was the earliest effort ofthe Global Environment
Facility and the Bank to address the conservation o f protected areas inUganda. The
Project was designedto contribute to the preservation o f two o f the country's most
biologically diverseand uniquetropical forests. The Bwindi Impenetrable National Park
(BINP), which covers 331km2,i s the largest tract o f natural forest remaining inUganda,
andis the only area inEast Africa containinganunbrokenecological continuumof
lowland andtransitional andmontane forest. BINP i s extremely rich inmammalian
diversity. The park is home to some 120 species, including the mountain gorilla, andis
equally rich inthe variety o f bird species (330). Though much smaller at 48 km2,the
Mgahinga Gorilla National Park (MGNP) i s part o f the Virungas Mountain Range that
also encompassesZaire's Virungas National Park andthe Parc National des Volcans in
Rwanda. MGNP i s one o f the few areas inUganda that contains Afro-montane and Afro-
alpine vegetation, as well as a number o f rare species, such as the golden gueron monkey
and eleven endemic species o f birds. The parks are also critical water catchment areas,
and contribute to climate regulation inthe country. Because o fthe presence o fthe
mountain gorillas, the potential for tourism is highat bothparks.

1.6     In1991,the Government ofUgandaraisedthe protectedstatusofbothareas fkom
forest and game preserves to nationalparks, and transferred their management from the
Forest and Game Department to the UgandaNational Parks Agency (now Uganda
Wildlife Agency). This ledto resettlement ofthe populationlivinginthe areas and a ban
on agricultural activities, logging, gold mining, harvesting o f non-timber products.
Despite the bans, from surrounding communities that must find alternative livelihoods to
those derivedfrom forest resources continue to put pressure on the park. Addressing
these pressures provided the underlyingrationale for the Project.

                                                3


2. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

2.1      The Bwindi/Mgahinga Conservation Project set up a trust fund to provide
incremental support for a three-pronged strategy for biodiversity conservation inthese
two important parks.The Fundwas launched with a US$4.3 million GEF grant that is
managed by the Mgahinga andBwindi Impenetrable Forest Conservation Trust
(MBIFCT). The following section describes the overall goals and specific objectives o f
the project, its main strategic components andthe administrative and operational structure
o f the Trust.

                                     PROJECTOBJECTIVES

2.2      The objectives o fthe Bwindi ImpenetrableNational Park and Mgahinga Gorilla
National Park ConservationProject are set forth most succinctly inthe statement that
appears in Schedule 2 of the Global Environment Trust FundGrant Agreement between
the Government ofUganda andthe IBRD(March 7,1995). The statement reads:

2.3      "The objectives ofthe Project are to support biodiversity conservation inBINP
andMGNPthrough: a) incremental support for parkmanagement andrelatedresearch
activities; and b) financing grants to assist local community groups to develop socio-
economic activities which will provide alternative means o f meeting needs which were
traditionally met by harvestingforest resources or to build community support for
conservation."

2.4      The Project Document also makes clear, however, that one o f the principal
objectives o f the project i s to establish andtest a Trust Fundand an the institutional
mechanism (the Trust) for overseeing the management o fthe Fundand managing grant-
making operations for localcommunity development, parksmanagement andresearch.

2.5      Inits descriptionofthe M&Eandsupervisionstrategy, the ProjectDocument
(Annex 7 ) elaborates on both o f these central objective^:^

         To promote the long-term conservation and biodiversity value o fthe BINP and
        MGNP, including butnot limited to their populations o f mountain gorillas and
         other endangered species.

         To promote community development and enhance community welfare indirect
         support o f conservation objectives;

        To demonstrate a novel, highlyparticipatory, institutionalmechanism for
         allocating and disbursing funds for conservation programs;

        To test the appropriateness and effectiveness o f a trust fund as a financing
        mechanism for conservation.



3. Annex 7 p 1." M&EStrategy and SupervisionPlan" Uganda:Bwindi ImpenetrableNational Parkand
MgahingaNational Park Project Document 1995

                                                     4


                                       PROJECTCOMPONENTS

2.6      The Project's biodiversity conservation strategy rests onthree maincomponents
to be funded by income from the Trust Fund. These strategic components are:

2.7       Community Development: The main objective o fthe trust is to fund community
based socio-economic development projects for the communities adjacent to the parks;
60 percent o f the net annual program income was to be directed at these projects.

2.8      Research: The second line of activity, for which 20 percent o fthe income would
be allocated, is for researchon ecological and socio-economic issues of importanceto
management o fthe parks andtheir relationshipwith adjacent communities. The UNP and
MBIFCT agreedthat the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservationwould coordinate the
research pr~gram.~       The ITFC and others would submitproposals to the Trust
Management Board (TMB) and its Technical Advisory Committee.

2.9      ParkManagementActivities: The remaining20 percent was allocated to
support operations relatedto the management o f Bwindi and Mgahinga nationalparks,
such as improved patrolling, demarcation o fpark boundaries, andthe preparationof
management plans. Ina Memorandum o f Understandingwith MBIFCT, UgandaNational
Parks stipulated that it would submit funding proposals that were inkeepingwiththe its
annual work programs.

                                   ORGANIZATIONALSTRUCTURE

2.10     The MBIFCT structure and operational modalities are spelled out inthe Trust
deed and by-laws and inan accompanying Trust Administration Manual (TAM). The
Trust has five major elements:

         Trust Fund. The capital fund of the Trust was established with an initial GEF
         grant o f US$4.3 million. Management o f these funds, which are invested off-
         shore, i s undertaken by an internationalinvestment firm selected by the TMB.
         The desired aim ofthe Trust andits asset managers is to maintainthe realvalue of
         the capital fund inperpetuity at a level that will cover grant disbursements,
         management fees and administrativecosts.

         Trust ManagementBoard. TMB has overall responsibility for MBICFT. Its
         voting members are the legal trustees o f the capital fund, and have decision-
         making responsibilityover the Trust's policies and operations. The TMB i s
         responsible for approving the investment strategy o f the asset manager, reviewing
         andapproving grant proposals, oversight o fthe administrationo fthe Trust
         program, and maintaining productive relationships with other organizations



4. Duringproject preparation in 1993,the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation (ITFC) and the East
African Wildlife Society organized a workshop that produced a preliminary research agenda for the project.
Eligible research included surveys and monitoring o fkey indicator species of ecosystem quality, evaluation
of sustainable forestry inmultiple use areas, and ways o freducingthe impact of wild animals on crops in
multiple use areas or buffer zones.

                                                     5


         involved inconservation andpark management. The Board i s structured to
         promote cooperation among stakeholders havingdirect interests inthe
         conservation and management o f the BINP andthe MGNP.

    0    LocalCommunity SteeringCommittee.The LCSC is the representative body
         that screens all proposals for community development grants andthe principal
         vehicle bothto raise community awareness about the Trust andto communicate
         community concerns to the TMB. The LCSC helps mobilize support for
         conservation, and oversees the implementationo f community projects to ensure
         their sustainability. The LCSChas authority to approve grantsbelow US$ 1000
         without going to TMB. LCSC members serve for two-year terms although
         provisions were made at the start o f the project to revise the selection process and
         therotationofthemembersonthe committee.6

    0    TechnicalAdvisory Committee. TAC was established to provide TMB with
         expert advice on programpriorities andreviewthe technical quality o f proposals
         brought to the Board. TAC also helpsconducts environmental and social impact
         screening of project proposals referredto it by the Trust Administration Unit
         (TAU). Memberso f TAU are selected onthe basis o ftheir professional expertise
         infields such as tropical forest ecology, economics, sociology, microfinance,
         agriculture or law that may be o f relevance to the projects being considered for
         hnding.

    0    Trust AdministrationUnit. TAU is the operational arm ofMBIFT. Working
         underthe direction ofa TrustAdministrator, who reports to TMB, TAU staffis
         responsible for implementationo fthe trust program andmanagement o f its
         administrative andfinancial activities. TAU i s responsible for regular monitoring
         and evaluation of trust operations, and receives andreviews proposals, monitors


5. The voting members of the Trust included: (i)  government agencies: Uganda Wildlife Authority, Forest
Department; (ii) local communities: one representativefrom each ofthe three administrative districts
borderingthe parks: Kisoro, Rukungiri andKabale. The Local Community Steering Committee selects
these representatives; (iii) and international NGO: one representativesfrom each of the active NGOs
                           local
involved with the conservation ofthe Parks, such as CARE andthe Wildlife Clubs ofUganda; and (iv)
researchinstitution: Institute of Tropical Forest Conservation /Mbarara University; andprivate sector /
tourism industry.Non-voting members were generally representatives o f GOU agenciesand international
donor organizations with an interest inthe operations ofthe MBIFCT. These include GOU Ministries of
Finance and Economic Planning; Justice; Tourism, Wildlife andAntiquities, and USAIDand the DGIS.
The TrustAdministrator is anon-voting member ofTMB.
6. As originally designed, the composition ofthe LCSC includes the following members:
1warden from eachpark-BINP and MGNP,
12 community representativesappointed by the ResistanceCouncil 3 ( sub-district ) governments inthe
area ( 3 voting members);
2 representativesfrom local women's groups;
1representativeofthe Batwa community;
1member from Institute for tropical Forest Conservation;
1representativeo fthe CAREIDTC project;
1member o fthe International Gorilla conservation Project;
1representative ofthe Mgahinga Gorilla National Park Project.

                                                       6


          their implementation, maintains relations with community organizations, NGOs
          and GOUagencies, provides technical assistance, andconducts educational
          programsandtraining. TAU and the LCSC were to bethe main interface
          betweenthe community andthe Trust. The project intendedfor the TAU to
          maintaina small staff, andto carry out its responsibilities, as muchas possible,
          through cooperative arrangementswith other agencies andNGOsworking inthe
          areaofthe parks, suchas CARE/DTC andthe wardens ofthe UNP. The
          proceduresand operational modalities ofthe TAU were detailed inthe Trust
          Administration Manual.

2.11      Project Financial Structure and Budget. The financial analysis underlying
project design indicated that for the Trustto achieve its objective ofbeing self-
perpetuating,the initialinvestment of US$4 millionwould have to grow to
approximately US$7.5 million andproduce a rate of return of 8.5 percent. The PAD
indicatedthat, with this level of capital at this rate of return, 3 percentof income could be
reinvested to maintainthe real value of the capital fund, leaving some 5.5 percentto be
apportioned among asset management fees, administrative costs, and a minimumannual
sum ofUS$100,000 to bedisbursedingrantsa7


3. PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

3.1       The MBIFCT was the first conservationfund supported by the GEF inAfrica.
The project concept was approvedinMay 1991during the "pilot phase" ofthe GEF. The
first phaseof project preparation, which was financed through the GEF's Pre-Investment
Facility (PRIF), was approvedinMarch 1992. The PCD was completed inJuly 1993, and
theproject was approvedinJanuary 1995. The project becameeffective on July 12, 1995.
Project implementationcanbe describedinthree phases:

3.2       Duringthe first period, the Bank establishedthe Trust Fundwith a GEF grant of
US$4.3 millionand secured an initial grant of US$ 890,700 from USAIDto help launch
project operations for the first two years (1995-1997).              This support enabled the initial
investment inthe Trust Fundto grow unimpeded, while MBIFCT became operational. At




7. The PADpresented a five year budget for the project, as well, as alternative financial projections for a 30
year period. After the initialtwo-year start up phase, the analysis showed administrative costs (including
the cost o f technical assistance and monitoring and evaluation) starting at approximately US$200,000 per
year and growing at a rate of 3%. It was expected that the approximately 2:l ration o f administrative costs
to grant disbursements would be assessedat midTerm Review to determine the most effective ways to
reduce the administrative cost.
8. The Bank's Team considered launchingthe Trust Fundwith a larger initial investment, but chose not to
for a number o freasons. The main one was that the Fundwas the first "pilot" project inAfrica, andthe
GEF andthe Bank were reluctant to commit too large a sum to an untried country. Also, there was a desire
to avoid overloading the absorptive capacity o fthe relatively small and poor population that would be
receiving grants, as well as an inclination to keep the program modest so as not to make it too tempting a
political or bureaucratic target.

                                                      7


the endofthisperiod, USAIDcompletedan evaluationofthe Trust, which contributedto
the Bank's Mid-TermReview inMay 1998.                  9


3.3      Fromthe end o f 1997through 2003, MBIFCT operatedwith a US$2.7 million
grant from the Government ofthe Netherlands(DGIS), as well as funds from the UN
Foundation (US$240,500). The Trust expandedits grant makingunder the DGIS grant,
which also enabledthe capital ofthe Fundto continueto grow, although the stock market
soured after September 11,2001, reducing the total gains ofthe fund during the period.
The Trust issued areport covering its activities for the period 1997-2002that summarized
achievements inall areas.lo

3.4      The current phase of operations beganin2003 following the close of the DGIS
grant. Since then, the MBIFCT has begundrawing on Trust Fundincome to finance its
activities. Inorder to continue operations within a more constrainedbudget, TMB has
deliberately narrowedthe scope of the Trust's operations to focus on developing the
capacity of communities surrounding the parks, rather thannew support for researchand
park management. Though stable at the time ofthe PPAR, the MBIFCT is ina moment
of transition. Unless the value of the Trust Fundincreases, the Trust either will haveto
indefinitely maintainthe narrower focus for its program, or convert to a sinking fund so
that itmay draw down larger annual sums to finance its three original priorities at higher
levels.

3.5      The World Bankclosedthe Bwindi ImpenetrableNational Park andMgahinga
Gorilla National Park Conservation Project on December31,2000, two years before
DGIS funding ended. The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is dated June 28th,
2001.



4. PROJECTASSESSMENTAND RATINGS

4.1      This assessmentwill concentrateonthe overall outcome ofthe project, the risks
that may underminethis outcome, the performanceto date of the Bank andthe
Government ofUganda, andthe quality of the designand implementation of the
monitoring and evaluationprogram accompanyingthe project.

                                              OUTCOME

4.2      The overall rating for the outcomeofthe MBIFCT Project i s satisfactory. While
one is temptedto rate it more highly onthe grounds that it has met all its immediate
objectives, it has not done so without some reservations. The generalpictureis quite
positive. The conservation objectives and strategies of the project are certainly directly
relevant to the aims of the GEF and the developmentgoals ofUganda. The Trust Fund



9. Frank E. Muhereza et.al., Report o f the evaluation ofthe Mgahinga and Bwindi Impenetrable Forest
Conservation Trust (MBIFCT) February-March 1998,USAID
10.Mgahinga andBwindiImpenetrable Forest Conservation Trust, Report 1997-2002

                                              8


hasbeenmanagedprudentlyandeffectively. The trust organizationhas beenwell
administered; its grant makingprocesses have beenparticipatory and community driven.
One also can argue that the cumulative effect o fthe trust programhas improvedthe lives
ofthe people affected by the project, increasedtheir awarenessofthe importance o f
conserving the biodiversity o fthe parks, advanced research on biodiversity trends, and
provided stop-gap support to the UWA for park management activities.

4.3      However, there are some issues that cloud this picture. First, despite the
MBIFCT's favorable reviews from those interviewed about the impacts o fthe project, the
effectiveness o fthe Trust's strategy for biodiversity conservation is difficult to ascertain.
Community development grants raise public awareness about the importance o f
conservingthe parks. But evidence o fpositive trends inthe ecological health o f the parks
exists side by side with signs o f continuingillegal activity. This makes it difficult to
determine whether either trend can beattributedto successes or failures o f the project.
Furthermore, the Trust is only one o f several actors addressing conservations issues inthe
parks andthe M&Eefforts have not beentargeted well enoughto differentiatebetween
the achievements o fthe Trust andthose o f others. Second, the otherwise sound co-
financing strategy the Bank pursuedmay have unintentionally weakened the incentives
for the TMB to prioritize fundraising for the future. This has ledto the current, more
constrained financial situationo fthe Trust, which may weaken the Trust's future
contribution. The Banktried to addressthis issue init supervision missionsto little avail.

4.4      None o fthese reservations negate the central achievement o f this GEF pilot
project, to establish a uniqueTrust. The Trust has been runningeffectively for ten years.
.One cannot expect a US$4.3 milliondollar fundto solve all the problems o fthe Bwindi
and Mgahingaparks. Despite difficulties, the MBIFCT has established itself as a
transparent source o f community-driven funding for conservation related activities that it
set out to be.

Relevance

4.5     At the conception ofthis project inthe early 1990s,its overall goal andspecific
objectives were as relevant to the global aims o fthe GEF and the development objectives
o f Uganda as they are today. They were also highon the Bank's priorities for the country.
Preserving unique ecosystems is part of the GEF's central missionas set forth inthe UN
Conventionon Biodiversity. For the Government o f Uganda, haltingthe deforestation
and loss o f wildlife that was degrading the parks would not only advance conservation
goals, but would also preserve irreplaceable assets that would attract tourism to the
country. At the time project preparation began, the technical work then underway for the
NEAP had identifiedthe degradation o f protectedforests andthe biodiversity loss as
major critical issues facing the country. These priorities guidedthe Bank's activities in
the country as well. They appeared inthe 1990 President's Report in Support o f the
UgandaAgricultural Sector, which explicitly supports the GOU's rationale for
developing the NEAP and commits theBankto providing technical assistanceto
strengtheningthe GOU's capacity for environmental management. The Bank's 1995
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) reaffirmed the focus on improving the environmental
management capacity o f the government and its capacity to manage national parks more
effectively. Subsequently, two major Bank efforts, one aimed at strengthening the

                                                9


Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) andthe other at buildingup the National
EnvironmentalManagement Authority (NEMA) are hallmarks o f the Bank's
commitment to strengthening environmental capacity. Later Country Assistance
Strategies (1997,2000) and the 2005 Joint Assistance Strategy for Uganda continue to
prioritize strengthening environmentalmanagement and regulation and improving the
park systeminthe country.

4.6     The objectives ofthe project also focused on issues ofparticular relevance to
protected areas management inUganda.Giventhe length o ftime it takes to reverse
natural processes o f degradation, establishing a mechanism to provide a steady and
continuous source of funding was essential. UgandaNational Parks (now UWA) was
weak financially andtechnically, and even though other donors andNGOs were working
intheparks,their fundingwas limited. A conservationtrust was a logicalmeans to this
end, andthe GEF already hadsome experience usingTrusts instruments inBhutanand
Peru. Similarly,makinggrants available to the local population surroundingthe parks for
community development and livelihood activities responded to the need to reduce local
communities' dependence on natural resources withinthe parks.

4.7      At the time, supporting researchandparkmanagement activities also responded
directly to the needs o fthe UNP (UWA). Because the UNP faced very severe budget
constraints, the need for operational support was urgent. Once the Bank's PAMSU
Projectwas fully underway however, this type o f support became less relevant andthe
MBIFCT rightly suspendedit. At the time, the UNP also neededto gain scientific
knowledge about the fundamental trends affecting the parks. While MakerereUniversity,
the Institutefor Tropical Forest Conservation, andinternationalNGOswere conducting
various research projects; the UNP could not continuously support the type o f extensive
baseline research required. Inthis regard, creating a steady and stable source o f funding
for research, free o fthe vagaries o f politics andbureaucratic budget cycles, was also an
urgent need.

4.8     Finally, for the Trust to succeed it neededto be deeply rooted inthe community
anddirectly engagethe various stakeholders interested inits operations. Applyingthis
approach was especially relevant inthe case o f Ugandabecause o f the highpriority given
to decentralization by the GOU.

Efficacy

4.9     Inassessingthe efficacy oftheMBIFCT Project, itis importantto distinguish
betweenthe overall, longterms goal o fthe project and its more immediate objectives. As
noted earlier, the overall goal o fthe project was to support biodiversity conservationin
the BwindiandMgahinganationalparks.The immediate objectives ofthe projectwere to
establish the institutionalmechanism that could provide that support on a long-term basis.
At the time, the GEF viewed conservation trust hnds as promising mechanisms, andthe
driving interest ofthe GEF andthe Bank was to establish such a fund inUgandato see
how it could be applied inan African setting. Withinthis context, the PPAR first asks
how effectively the project met these immediate objectives, as setting up the Trust and
ensuring its effective performance was the Bank's primary concern and a necessary
preconditionfor advancing its ultimate goal.

                                                10


4.10     The Project's immediate objective was to establishand test a Trust Fundas a
financingmechanismfor conservation.This objective hasbeenmet. The Fundwas
establishedandhas been managedwell. The Fundattractedadditional donor funding, and
grown at an acceptable rate. However, the Fundhasyet to reachthe level that will allow
the MBIFCTprogramto be self-sustaining.Under the managementofthe first asset
managers engagedby the TMB, the Trust Fund grew from US$4.3 millionin 1995 to
US$7.3 bythe endof 1999. Itbeganto depreciate in2000, however, reaching a low of
US$ 5.5 million at the endof2002. Part of this decline can be attributed to the impact of
the events of September 11,2001 on financial markets. The decline may also bedue in
partto the relatively cautious investmentstrategy pursuedby the asset managers.The
fortunes of the Trust Fundbeganto recover in2002, rising to US$6.283,909 bythe end
of FY2005." While part of the growth is attributable to favorable growth inthe US and
international U S stock markets, it also reflects the performance ofthe new asset managers
engagedby the Trust inJuly 2004. The Trust Fundhas diversified its portfolio to hold a
higher percentage of equities, andhas grown by approximately 12percent since the
change inmanagement, according to the MBIFCT Three Year Report -June 2002-June
2005 (See Annex C for Summary of FundPerformance 1997-2005).

4.11     Indeveloping the fund, the Bankandthe Trust pursuedaneffective transitional
strategy that permittedthe initial investmentto grow toward the desiredlevel by
reinvesting generatedincome ratherthan drawing down on it for the operations ofthe
Trust. As we've seen, this strategy involved including inUSAIDmoney (US$ 890,700)
to fund the first two years of the Trust's operational costs, and later encouragingDGIS
(US$2.7million) to provide substantial follow-on support. The two grants enabledthe
Trust to operate for over seven years without major draw downs from the Trust income.

4.12     Other donors have also contributed to the operations ofthe Trust. For instance,
theUNFoundationprovidedUS$240.500 through FA0for the Enterprise Development
Project for the period from January 2001to May 2004. CARE/Uganda also provided a
small grant of US$26,018, andthe Royal NetherlandsGovernment made additional
grants amounting to US$98,050 to the program.l2The collaborative relationships the
Trust maintains with CARE, the Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation, the UWA and
international NGOs indirectlyhelpto defray the operational costs ofthe program. The
Trust has also acquired additional funding to cover administrative expensesby renting
out office space inthe new MBIFCT headquartersit built inKabala.

4.13     The MBIFCT beganwithdrawing steadily from the Fundin2003, although ithad
drawn out an amount ofUS$318,924 on a one time basis in2001. Withdrawals were
made inFY 2003,2004 and 2005 for US$215,593, US$149,043and US$112,145
respectively. Bythe end of 2005, as donor funds beganrunning out, the Trust
ManagementBoard decidedto cut back its administrative andprogram costs
commensurately to the level permittedby what the Fundactually produced. It also



11. Trustee's ReportandFinancial Statements, MgahingaandBwindiImpenetrableforest Conservation
Trust (MBIFCT), 30 June 2005
12.MBIFCT-3 Year ReportJune 2002-June2005 p.5

                                                   11


decided to devote a high priority to developing and implementingan effective fundraising
strategy to defray a larger proportiono f operational and administrative costs.

4.14    Throughout the life o fthe project, the Bank worked closely withthe TMB on
oversight o f the management o fthe Fund. It helpeddevelop and signedoff onthe
investment strategy ofthe Asset Managers, itprovided orientationto the TMB on
exercisingits fiduciary responsibilities regardingthe Fund, and at the Mid-Term Review
itengaged the TMB ina thoroughdiscussion ofthe Fund's performance. UnderBank
supervision, as well as after the close o fthe Bank Project, the TMB andthe Asset
Managers have pursuedprudent investment strategies consonant with bestpractice for
these types o f Funds.

4.15    Inthe future, the financialhealthofthe MBIFCT will dependonthree main
factors: the growth and stability of the investment fund itself, the success of the TMBs
efforts to raise additional program funds, andthe ability o fthe TMB andthe Trust
Administration Unitto reduce and control the administrative costs o f its operations. On
the first indicator, the Funditselfhas performed well, and, after some prodding from the
Bank, the TMB has taken a more aggressive role inoverseeing the FundManagers.
Barringa dramatic or prolonged slump ininternational financial markets, the Fund
should continue to perform at acceptable levels.

4.16     However, there i s no evidence so far that the Trust Management Board has
succeeded inmounting an aggressive fundraising strategy. As early as the Mid-Term
Review, the Bank's ProjectTeampushedthe TMB to develop a strategic planand
fundraising strategy. The TMB didproduce a strategic planafter the MTR, as well as a
SustainabilityPlan in2002-2005, but its subsequent fundraising efforts have been less
vigorous. At one point, the Trust hireda consultant whose endproduct was o f little use.
More recently, according to the Three Year Report, the Trust solicited proposals for
fundraising assistancefrom a number o f firms, none o f which provedacceptable. The
TMB has made somemodestproposals to donors. The Trust is working with theUWA to
secure a dedicated fee from tourist visits to Gorilla sites, and it i s receivingrental income
from the headquarters buildingthat hasjust beencompleted inKabale. At the time o f the
evaluationhowever, it hadnot beensuccessful in securing any large source o f funding. In
short, it i s still too early to tell whether the income producedby the Trust Fundwill
support the levels o f grant makingthat are expected o f the Trust inperpetuity.
Otherwise, the Trust will have to convert to a sinking fund approach meet its projected
level o f grant-making, or will have to lower its sights to live within its means.

4.17    The Project also set out to establish an innovative, community-driven
mechanismfor allocatingand disbursingfunds for conservation.The designand
operation o f the MBIFCT has substantially met this objective, as its mainelements -the
TMB, LCSC, andTAU have beeneffective at enhancing the ownership and
                             -
participation o f stakeholders inthe management and grant-makingactivities o fthe Trust.
Ultimately, the MBIFCT i s rooted deeply inthe community andhas increased awareness
about the needto protect the parks.

4.18    The Trust Management Boardhas served as an effective forum for balancingthe
interests o f the public andprivate stakeholders involved inthe oversight and management

                                             12


o f the Trust. Its membership includesmost o fthe key actors involved inthe conservation
o f the parks, such as the UgandaWildlife Authority, Forest Department; representatives
o f Kisoro, Rukungiri, and Kabale districts, keyNGOs, the tourism sector; the Instituteo f
Tropical Forest ConservationiMakerere University, andkey GOUministries o f Finance
andEconomicPlanning, Justice and, Tourism andbilateral donors. According to people
consulted for the PPAR, the interplay o f these stakeholders has beenproductive. Ithas
facilitated oversight of the Fund's performance andthe operations o f the Trust, enhanced
the transparency of the process for the selection o f grants, andprotected the Trust from
becoming the captive of one institutional interest or another.

4.19     The Local Communities SteeringCommittee is the other body expressly designed
to root the Trust's grant-making process inthe will o fthe community. With over 12
membersappointedby sub-district governments (LRC3), representatives of local
women's groups andthe Batwa community, as well as park wardens, and members o f the
ITFC, CARE/DTC, andthe International Gorilla Conservation Project, among others, the
LCSC represents the diverse stakeholders inthe catchment area of the parks, giving them
a direct voice inthe development and selection o f projects to be funded by the Trust.

4.20     The performance ofthe LCSC also has been effective. The Committee was
considered "perhaps the most mature of the Trust's unit" according to the MTR.By the
time ofthe PPAR, the LCSC hadgone throughthree grantmaking cycles andmet some
29 times to consider the selection of projects, project performance, future selection
procedures, the selection o f LCSC members, andissues such as the representation o f
women and the Batwa community on the committee andto participate inthe preparation
o f the MBIFCT's Sustainability Plan. As a result o f the MTR in 1998, the chairman o f
the LCSC became member ofthe TMB ensuringa more direct andpermanent
relationshipbetweenthe two bodies.

4.21      While the LCSC remains a highly effective vehicle for expressing community
priorities to the Trust and giving the community sense o f ownership of its program, it has
been criticized on occasion. One line o f criticism i s that the project was too drivenby
community rather than conservation related priorities (an understandable bias givenits
representative character). Another criticism i s that the Trust's members needed to be
more active incommunicating the aims o f the MBIFCT to their constituencies; and a
thirdis that membersmightbetoo susceptible to localpoliticalpressures. Startingwith
the MTR, efforts have beenmade to addressthese concerns. As newmembers rotate
onto the Committee they receive training regardingto assessment andmonitoringo f
projects, outreach to community constituents, and coordinationwith local government
offices. Representatives o fthe TMB andthe TAU were sensitive to the needto fend off
political pressures and keep the operations o f the LCSC open and transparent.

4.22     The Trust Administration Unitplays a critical role o fproviding technical and
administrative support to the LCSC, as well as the TMB. At the outset, it was expected
that the TAU would be a relatively leanunit, relyingon other outside organizations such
as CARELDTC, the ITFC or field basedNGOs to implement community programs and
research. These organizations turned out to have capacity constraints o ftheir own,
however, and, by the time o f the MTR, it became clear that the TAU staff was stretched
thin, especially since the demandfor technical assistance onthe designand

                                                13


implementation of community development projects was muchhigher than anticipated.
Following the MTR, additional community liaison staff was addedto the unit, and
Project Engineerswere contractedto helpdesignand implementcommunity construction
projects. Although the TAUhas sufferedfrom staff turnover relatedto salary issues and
several instanceso f corruption, ithas administeredthe operations ofthe Project
effectively and efficiently, receiving and reviewing proposalsfor the TMB, monitoring
their implementation, providingtechnical assistance, maintaining relations with
community organizations,NGOs and GOU agencies, conducting educational programs
and coordinating training activities. As noted earlier, the community project staff has
beencut back recently following the TMB policy that suchpositions only be filled when
outside fbnding exists. As things standnow, the TAU is functioning well while keeping
operationalcosts under control.

4.23     Once established, the overall goal o f the MBIFCT was to support biodiversity
conservationinBINP andMGNPthough, a) incrementalsupport for parks
managementand relatedresearchactivities, and b) financinggrants to assist local
communitygroupsto develop socio economic activitieswhichwill provide
alternativemeansfor meetingneedswhichwere traditionally met by harvesting
forest resourcesor to buildcommunitysupport." While there i s little doubt that the
Trust has beeneffective at channeling funds for these purposes, thereby substantially
meeting its immediate operational objectives, it is not clear how muchgrant-funded
activities have contributed to conservationof biodiversity inthe two parks. As noted
earlier, this has to do with real difficulties of attribution related to the number of actors
involved inpark conservation, the relatively small size ofthe MBIFCT grant program,
andthe deficiencies of the Project's fragmentedM&E system. Nevertheless, a review of
community development and research andparks management will examine the
magnitude of the Trust's grant making, whether the activities fundedmet the criteria
intendedby the Project, and the evidencethat exists about their impact onthe
conservationof BINP and MGNP.

4.24    Inkeepingwithitmandate, the MBIFCT has givenhighest priority to supporting
grants for community developmentduringthe pastten years. Respondingto
community needs articulated through the LCSC, the program has concentratedonthe
low-income population living in54 parishes ofthe districts immediately surrounding the
parks such as Karamu, Kisale andKisoro. Broadly speaking, the focus of grant making
has embracedthree areas: a) social welfare, infrastructure, education andtraining; b)
productive enterprise; and c) programs explicitly addressedto the needs ofthe minority
Batwa community. Funding for these grants came through USAID, DGIS, the UN
FoundationEAO program, and, more recently, from Trust Fundincome.

4.25      Although no consolidated summary of grant-making was made available for the
PPAR, arough accounting can be made basedon the MBIFCT two annual reports. There
have beenthree cycles o f grant making since the beginning ofthe project. Inthe first
cycle some 50 projects were funded, most of which answeredbasic community welfare
andinfrastructure needs school classrooms, healthunits, and awomen's training center.
                          -
A secondroundof funding under the DGIS grant supported avariety ofprojects aimedat
productive alternative livelihood activities suchas bee-keeping, passionfruit cultivation,
coffee growing andtree nurseries, as well as community infrastructure involving the

                                                    14


construction o f classrooms, water tanks and latrines, two high-school level science
laboratories, a girls' dormitory, a vocationaltraining centre for women, eight healthunits,
and solar power for a remote healthunitwhich requiredrefrigeratedstorage for vaccines.
The report issued by the Trust for the period 1997-2002          l3indicates that a total o f 90
projects hadbeen funded by both c~c1es.l~



District     Primary    Health        Agro       Solar    Drama    Secondary    Communal       Social  Roads
             schools      units      projects                       schools       water        center
                                                                                  tanks
Kanungu         7           3          26                    3          1                        1       1
Kabale          6           3          6                     1          1            1                   1
Kisoro          9           3          10          1         1          1            4
Total          22           9          42          1         5          3            5           1       2
US$          275,043     7,247       31,092      5,771     6,791      89,032       7,247       15,009  1.887



4.26     The MBIFCT's Three Year Report-June2002-June 2005, which includes athird
cycle o f grant-making, presents a pattern more heavily focused on training andtechnical
assistancefor improving livelihoodsthrough small scale agricultural activity. The report
gives a calculation o f approximatelyhow many people have beenreached by technical
training for mushroom growing (895), beekeeping (173), fish farming (l),            handicrafts
(36), and for the installation o f 269 efficient stoves. Assistance was providedfor planning
woodlots, Irishpotatoes, rice andpassion fruit, and for the purchase and consolidation o f
land. Inaddition grants were given for dramatic events andradio spots (1260 to raise
consciousness about the importance o f conserving biodiversity inthe parks.'5)

4.27     Responding to the needs of the Batwa community i s also a priority o fthe
MBIFCT community development program.l6The Batapeople were an indigenous
ethnic group that was expelledfrom the parks in 1991.Although the Batwa had not
owned landinthe conventional sense before then, a special study requiredby the Bank
showed that what they most aspired to was having landof their own, rather than
remainingday laborers, economically dependent and exploited by the majority o f the



13.Ibidp.11
14. The community developmentactivitieso fthe Trust were supplementedby the CommunityEnterprise
DevelopmentProject(EDP), fundedby a US$240,500grant fromthe UnitedNationsFoundation. The EDP
appliedFAO's MarketAnalysis andDevelopmentMethodology(MA&D) to help agriculturalproducers
identify and develop viable enterprisesSite. The projectenableda number ofproducersto identifyprojects
aroundBwindi, analyzetheir viability, developbusinessplans for their implementation,andreceive
trainingfor gettingthemup andrunning.The types of enterprises deemedmostviable were community
tourism, handicraftmaking, mushroomgrowing, beekeepingandgrowingpassionfruit. By 2003, a small
number ofproducershadbegunwork onthree sites inBwindi.
15. MBIFCT Three Year ReportJune 2002-June2005 pp.8-14.
16.The foundationofthe Batwacomponentofthe Trust's programwas establishedinthe 1996study
preparedby K.KabananukyeandE Wiley at the requestofthe Bank.

                                                    15


population. The Batwa wishedto reasserttheir customary rightsto the use o f certain
forest products by gaining legal access to protected forests for certain activities. The
MBIFCT sought to integrate the Batwamore effectively into the Trust's programming
anddecision-making processes, promotetheir education, andimprove their livelihoods
by leasing landfor distributionto Batwafamilies andprovidingthemwiththe technical
assistance and suppliesneededto work the landeffectively.               l7 The MBIFCT positively
impactedthe Batwa, integratingthem into the program andthe LCSC more directly and
helping to weaken the prejudice that has historically beset them. The Batwa feel that the
Trust is addressing their needs, but one also mustrecognize that improving their
condition is a slow process that involves factors outside the purview o fthe Trust.

4.28     The recordshows that the MBIFCT has made numerous grants for community
development. Questions remain as to whether these grants metthe criteria originally set
forth for this component o fthe project andwhether they supported the biodiversity
conservation goals of the project.

4.29     The criteria set forth inthe ProjectDocumentfor determiningproject eligibility
were that they (i) beproposed by established local community groups, (io have a
demonstrable positive impact on the conservation o f the parks andtheir biodiversity, (iii)
were consistent withthe policies and park management plans of UgandaNational Parks
(UNP), (iv) meet social and environmental soundness, equity, andtransparency criteria,
(v) include a matching contribution incash or kindby the proponent, and (vi) include
arrangements for accountability and long-term sustainability.

4.30     Overall, the TMB, the LCSC and the TAU have ensured that approved grants met
the eligibility criteria. They have vetted the groups makingthe proposals, coordinated
with other institutionsworking inthe parks, andthrough the TAU inparticular, provided
for the technical support to undertake environmentaland social due diligence o fthe
proposals. Insum, this review unearthedlittle criticism of the overall grant-making
process.

4.3 1    The process diddepart fromthe criteria ontwo counts, however. First, a large
number ofthe 50 projects approved inthe first roundwere focused on "social welfare"
rather than onproductive enterprise based on biodiversity resources. The healthposts,
schoolrooms and community well projects approved inthis roundwere legitimate
expressions o f the community's interests, but they didnot have a "demonstrable positive
impact on the conservation o f the parks and their biodiversity", andthey were not socio-
economic activities that provided an alternative to harvestingnatural resources from the



17. The LCSC had three Batwa representatives; uniforms and school supplies were distributedto some 500
Batwa children; two Batwa drama groups were trained to carry out community education presentations on
conservation and eco-tourism subjects; a number o f water and sanitation projects were aimed at Batwa
communities. The land component o f the project settled approximately 232 households on some 326
hectares o f landpurchasedfor lease under the program. The objective o fthe program was to purchase400
hectares for approximately 403 households. The program covers the districts o f Kisoro, Kabale and
Kanungu. The experience ofthe program showed that continuous support for 1-2 years hadto beprovided
to households inthe form of seed, tools and emergency foods to enable them to establish themselves f m l y
as farmers.

                                                     16


parks,as calledfor inthe Project's statement ofobjectives. Second, the requirement for
matching contributions was relaxed, as experience showed it often placed an excessive
burden onthe project proponents.

4.32     The Bankandthe MBIFCT resolved the first issue at the time o fthe MTRby
recognizingthat so-called "social welfare" projects indeedanswered a pressing
community needs and recommendinga future approach that sought a balance between
this type ofproject andproductiveactivities related to biodiversity conservation. The
reasonablenesso fthis approach i s underscored by subsequent reviews that credit the
project with increasing the community's overall support for the MBIFCT andits mission.
Indeed, itwould seem quite contradictoryto advocate community-baseddecision-making
only to reject its results. A look at the summary chart above o f the DGIS period indicates
that a balance was achieved betweenthe two types o fprojects by the end o f the second
cycle o f grant-making: for the 90 projects underway in2002,47 percent were classified
as agro-based and 57 percent fell under categories covering health or education.

4.33       According to Bank supervision reports, the rate o f disbursement for the first
round o f grants was relatively slow, inpart because o ftechnical implementation
problems and issues tiedto matching contributions. To solve the first problem, the
TMB/TAUdecided to use project engineers to overseeproject implementation. Itwas
determined that the cause o f the secondproblemwas that many communities were not
able to supply the contribution they had agree uponbecause often it involved materials
(Le. lumber, sand or bricks) that were not readily available locally. For many
communities, the combined cost ofthe materials plustransportationwas more thanthey
could bear. The TMB resolvedthis problemby limitingthe counterpart contribution to
labor or materials that were knownto be available to the local community. By,preserving
the concept o f a matching contribution from the beneficiary, the TMB adhered to
commonly accepted good practice for community development programs.

4.34     The impact o fthe MBIFCT's community development strategy is difficult to
quantify with the data available to the PPAR. As highlightedpreviously, the project did
not construct a comprehensive socio-economic baseline for an M&E system that would
have made it possible to track changes inthe economic situationo fproject beneficiaries
and determine whether they still rely on resources from the parks for their livelihoods.
The project's annual reportsdo provide data on outputs, but little harddatapermittingan
analysis o fthe causal relationships between the activities o f the Trust and trends inthe
conservation o f the parks.

4.35      A recent World Bank/GEFPost ImplementationImpact Assessment ofthe
Project does offer more qualitative evidence that the community development grants have
had a positive impact on the well-beingand attitudes o f the beneficiaries.18 Interviews
conducted with local stakeholder infive communities surroundingthe parks, showed
strong appreciation for the social infrastructure projects fundedby the MBIFCT ,positive



18. L e Groupe-conseil baastel Ited, Draft Report, Post ImlementationImpact Assessment,, The Bwindi
Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga GorillanationalPark Conservation Paroject, (21December
2005) p. 14-43.

                                                  17


changes inincomesfrom grants for productive projects, andpositive attitudes about the
benefits o f conserving the parks. Another study carried out by the ITFC in2004
interviewedpark staff and localvillagers in 19villages aroundthe parksabout attitudes
toward conservationofthe parks. The survey showed 67.4 percent ofthe respondents
perceived benefits from the parks comparedto 62.4 percent ina 1992survey. The two
factors cited most frequently as causing changes inthe respondents' attitudes were19the
support given for agricultural projects and MBFICT community welfare projects.

4.36    While these surveys show positive benefits for the beneficiaries of MBIFCT
grants, they are inconclusive withrespect to drawing links betweenthese benefits and
trends inthe parks. Studies done by the ITFCunder the Ecological Monitoring Program
show that there have beenno net lossesinforest area inBINP andMGNP since the
MBIFCT was established. The studies also show that the gorilla populationhas increased
from 300 in 1997to 320 in2002.        2o   Butthe same studiesshow evidencethat illegal
activities (bee harvesting, tree cutting, and small scale hunting) have increased
particularly inthe periphery of the parks. Some observers argue that the increase in
illegal activity is not an actualincrease, butthe result of better monitoring andpolicing o f
existing activity by the UWA. Otherspoint out that it is generatedby poor membersof
the community who have not yet benefitedfrom MBIFCT programs. Ineither case, it
seems clear that existing data doesn't permit an unqualified conclusion about the impact
of the MBIFCT program.

4.37    Evenwith an effective M&E program inplace, it would be difficult to directly
attribute changes inthe conservationof the parks to the MBIFCT Project. Other forces
have also played a major role. During the past ten years, the GOU hasremovedmost of
the populationfrom the parks; the UWA`s ability to manage andpolice theparkshas
improved with considerablehelp from the Bank's PAMSUProject; the country's
economy has grown, and conflict has diminishedbringing more tourists to the area and
more interest inits protection. Moreover, the MBIFCT is only one of several important
actors on the scene. As shown inthe Table 2, o fthe World Bank/GEF Post
Implementation Assessment report, the BwindiTrust has provided only US$699,944 in
trust fund donations to the parks between2004-2006, while other organizations are
mobilizing considerably more: i.e. USAID's Prime West Project (US$ 17,000,0000);
DANIDA(US$4,000,000), andthe MacArthur FoundatiodGEF project with Wildlife
Conservation Society (US$ 1,220,000).        21   The Trust's community developmentactivities
are part of this mix, butthe Trust is not necessarilyresponsiblefor all activity inthe
parks.

4.38    A similar conclusion canbemade aboutthe Trust's support for park
management and research. As expressedinthe GrantAgreement, the project didnot



19. IBIDp 33.
20. McNeilage et al., Census o fthe mountaingorillapopulation inBINP, Uganda.
21. P 25, L e Groupe -Conseil Baastel Itke, Draft Report- Post ImplementationImpactAssessment:
Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Mgahinga GorillaNational Park Conservation Project (21
December 2005)

                                              18


pretendto provide more than "incremental" support for these ends, but one must still ask
whether project activities contributedto the underlying objective. With regards to park
management, the original intention behindthe Trust's support was to focus on activities
more directly related to planningand capacity buildingrather than logistics, equipment,
and capital construction. Early on, however, it began apparent that UNP (UWA) was
financially too weak to cover its basic operational needs. These weaknesses were
acknowledged at the time o f the MTR, and the Trust, USAIDand DGIS all agreed that
support would be givento stop-gap operational measuresuntilthe UWA's budgetary
situation improved. For instance, under the DGIS grant, US$80,3 13 went to Bwindifor
activities such as the renovationo ftwo outposts and a dormitory, construction o f
information sign, andthe purchase o f vehicles, tents, bicycles and a laptop computer.
MgahingaGorillaNationalParkreceived some US$ 60,253 for construction o f a
warden's house, a vehicle and a water tank. A much smaller sum, US$ 9,447 went to
UWA for workshops, meetings and supplies for the development o fmanagement plans
for bothparks.   22


4.39    Although the Trust's support to park management activities- separate from
research-focused mainly on stop-gap measures, it nevertheless had a substantial impact
on the operations o fthe UNP giventhe financial needs o f that institution at the time.
With the advent ofthe World Bank's PAMSUProject, MBIFCT support to UWA has
become modest, at best, and, more recently has been suspendedcompletely.

4.40    The research component ofthe Trust aimedto provide information for managing
the parks and to contribute to knowledge about regional and global biodiversity. The
evolution o f the Trust researchprograms can be divided into two phases: the first
covering the period from project effectiveness to the beginning o f DGIS, and the second
covering the period of the Ecological Monitoring Programbegunwith DGIS funds.

4.41     Once the MBIFCT started up, the Institutefor Tropical Forest Conservation
(ITFC) identifiedfive projectsthat fit withinthe agreed uponresearch framework and
priorities and solicitedproposals for them from university student researchers. The first
five projects cited inthe 1997-2002 Trust Report covered such subjects as (a) small
animal communities along an elevation gradient o f the BINP, (b) an assessment o f the
status o f the exotic species andnatural vegetation types o f MDNP, and (c) the status o f
carnivores inthe BINP.23InAugust 1998, the MTR questioned whether the emphasis o f
the researchprogramshouldbe so heavily weightedtoward the biological sciences rather
thanissues relatedto social andeconomic issuesandsustainable use. Notingthat a
variety o f other institutions had conducted research on species, conducted a census o f
gorilla populations, and collected biodiversity baseline data, the MTR suggested that the
MBIFCT seek to collaborate more closely withthe ITFC on the Ecological Monitoring
Project (EMP) that itjust had initiated with the funding from the DGIS.

4.42    The EMP runby the ITFC is the mainvehicle through which the MBIFCT
contributes to research and monitoring o f the parks.The EMP, which began in 1997,


22. Ibidp.16
23. P 16-17Mgahingaand Bwindi ImpenetrableForest ConservationTrust: Report 1997-2002

                                              19


seeks to determine the reduction of threats to BINP and MGNP andchanges inthe
conditions o f the forests. After the MTR, the MBIFCT indeed funded research that
dovetailed nicely with the coverage o fthe EMPunder the DGIS grant some US$66,406
was directed at 13 researchprojects. One was an assessmento fgrantinglocalpeople
restricted access to BINP resources as a means o f reducingthe level o f illegal activity and
unsustainable resource use inthe park, another examinedthe patterns o f crop raiding by
bushpigs inorder to identify strategies to controltheir destructive activity, andathird
analyzed the impact o f forest dynamics inBwindi. All o f these studies potentially
contributedto the development o f baselines and management strategies for the park and
the EMP monitoringagenda.

4.43    Initially, the biodiversity research activities o f the Trust made only a modest
contributionto achieving the goals o f biodiversity conservation. The Trust was only one
o f several institutions fundingresearch on the parks. Butthe Trust's support for the
ITFC's implementation o f the EMP made a more substantial contribution. Implementing
the EMP has not only strengthenedthe ITFCbut also benefitedthe UWA by helpingit
establish more robust, albeit fragmented baseline information, andexamine alternative
management approaches for the park. Unfortunately, at the time o fthe evaluation,
continued finding for the EMP from the Trust was uncertain.

Efficiency

4.44    Ingeneral, one canconclude that the MBIFCT hasmet its objectives with
substantial efficiency, although no formal benchmarks for measuring efficiency were
builtinto the Project's analysis. The PAD does not document anERRor a cost benefit
study for project alternatives, nor do such analyses appear retrospectively inthe ICR.
Nevertheless, there i s evidence that withinthe bounds it set for itselfthe project was
efficiently run.

4.45    The genesis ofthe MBIFCT was not basedon detailed cost-benefit evaluations o f
strategic alternatives for conserving biodiversity inthe parks. Rather, the decision
appearsto have beenmade basedthe internationalimportance o f their gorilla
populations, ecology, andtheir tourism potential. Similarly, the decision to use a GEF
grant to create a Trust Fundwas basedon an early appreciationo fthe fragility and
financial weakness o f existingUgandaNational Parks agencies, and a consensus among
theNGO andother donors operating inthe area, that what was most neededwas a source
of long-term, stable financing, and interest inthe growing experience with conservation
finds. The financial analysis undertaken focused onbuilding30 year scenarios to project
the conditions under which a Trust Fundcould become self sustainable while generating
a minimumsumto cover grants and operational expenses for grants.

4.46     A first indicator o f efficiency canbe sought by asking how well the Fundhas
performed. Ingeneral the Trust has performedrelatively well. As we've seen, the Fund
grew from US$ 5.8 millionto US$7 millionbetween 1997/1998 and 1999/2000, dropped
to US$ 5.5 millionand has gradually recovered to US$ 6.8 million in2005/2006. The
Asset Managers have performedwell and the overall rate o f return for Trust during the
last three years has been 12.9 percent, according to the 2002/2005 annual report.

                                               20


4.47      A secondmeasure ofefficiency lies inthe administrative performance ofthe
MBIFCT, particularly that of the TMB andthe Trust AdministrationUnit.Over the years,
the Bank worked closely withthe TMB and the TAU to helpthenimprovedtheir
management o f the Trust. The boardhas become increasinglydiligent inperformance o f
its fiduciary and oversight functions and the TAU has become increasingly adept at
coordinating the operations of the Trust andthe LCSC, managing administrative and
budgetingprocesses, rationalizing administrativeand financial recordkeeping activities,
and providing support to the TMB for the discharge o f its duties. At the beginningo f the
project the ratio o f operating costs to grants seemedhighduringthe start upperiod, but as
the Trust gained experience, it gained greater control over these costs, inpartby
recognizingthat technical support to project development and implementation needed to
be accounted for separately from purely administrative costs. After reviewing the overall
cost o f the grant-making program, the Bank's June 2000 supervision mission calculated
administrative costs for the program at 26 percent o fthe total and acceptable proportion
giventhe rate o f disbursementsat the time.24 Followingthe close o fthe DGIS grant, the
TAUfound itselfover-staffed andhadto cut back inorder to bringits administrative
costs inline. According to Trust's Financial Statements for the periodending June 2005,
the ratio that year dropped to 2:1from a higho f 4: 1the year before.25A detailed audit o f
the ten years o f trust operations will reveal whether or not current patterns are the
beginningof a salutary trend. Such an audit was not available to the PPAR team.

4.48     Some complaints have arisen concerningthe amount o f time the trust takes to
develop, approve and implement grants. Inpart, this reflects the participatory deliberative
process o f the LCSC, and inpart it reflects lack o f capacity among the recipients o f
grants and the length o ftime it takes to provide adequate technical assistanceand
supervisionor certaintypes o fprojects. While the efficiency o f the grant-makingprocess
mightbe improvedbymore streamlined, less participatoryprocedures, anaction ofthis
sort would undermine the objective of makingthe program as community-driven as
possible.

4.49      One very important reasonthe Fundhas beenable to grow was the deliberate
strategy o f securing funds from USAIDand the DGIS to cover the operations ofthe
Trust. Onthe face of it, one cannot fault this strategy. Itallowedthe Trust to launchits
programs immediately and maintaina significant level o f grant makingfor those years.
However, it also may have created a level o f dependence on donor funding that had the
pernicious effect o f both lessening the pressure to control operational costs and devoting
time to crucial fundraisingtasks. Now that the levels o foutside support have diminished
and the Trust must draw from the income o fthe Fund, the TMB has been forced to
reduce the size o fthe staff and suspendtwo types o f grant making. This i s a radical
lowering o f expectations for the Trust that could adversely effect its reputation, and will
undoubtedly narrow the effective range o f its operations.




24. P 6 Aide Memoire, SupervisionMission, June 12-23 2000
25. P 14 BwindiMgahinga ConservationTrust FY2004/2005 Annual Report

                                               21


                         RISKTO DEVELOPMENTOUTCOMES

4.50     At present, the overall riskto the development outcomes ofthe project appear to
be moderate, but giventhe long expected life ofthe Trust the situation could change in
the future. The most important riskfacing the MBIFCT i s financial. The risk has two
dimensions, one external and one internal. The very viability o fthe Trust's activities
depends on the healthand stability o f external internationalfinancial markets that are
drivenby factors that certainly lie beyondthe Trust's control. The Bankandthe Trust
took steps early on to mitigate these risks by placing the Trust's funds under the
management o f experienced, internationally known funds managers. So far this has
provenfruitful.Notwithstandingthe Fund's decline invalue in2001/2002, it has
recovered and grown at a reasonable rate. Inaddition, the TMB has developed the skills
and procedures that enable itto do a competentjob o f overseeing and auditing the
managers o f the Fund. While the risk o f negative swing inthe international financial
market i s real, the Trust has the elements inplace to cushion its impact.

4.5 1    A related risk is that the growth o fthe Fundwill not berobust enough to fulfill
the original targets for a self-sustaining program. The performance o f the Fundto date
indicates that's the overall goal can be reached. It remains to be seen whether the TMB
andthe TAU can containthe costs of operations andalso raise additionalprogram funds
to respond to the expandingdemand for community grants, as well as for the research
grants that were suspendedduringthe past year. Management efforts appear to have kept
cost under controI by cutting staffthat cannot be covered by program funds, but this also
creates the risk that the Trust will be unable to respond to demand. Based on the field
visits, this does not appear to be a substantial risk, but it is one that must be assessed
periodically by the management o f the Trust.

4.52     Shouldthe MBIFCT not live upto its expectations for financing community
development grants, there also i s a danger that the stakeholder support so firmly
expressedthrough the LCSC will erode. This i s not only a question o f meeting existing
demand, but also o fbeing able to respond to the demand o f a growing population that has
been attracted to the area aroundthe parks by the prospects o f benefitingfrom the growth
o f tourism or from the very programs funded by the Trust and others. The community's
sense of ownership of the Trust mightprove to be very fragile iffunding for the programs
becomes too small. The commitment o f other stakeholders, such as the ITFC could also
deteriorate ifthe Trust's other programs are cut back or suspended for long.

4.53     There are two more generalized threats that pose a risk. One is the additional
populationattracted to the area around the parks.Not only mightthis population
overwhelmthe Trust's grant makingcapacity, but it mightbringincreased pressure to
bear on the natural resources o f the parks themselves, reversing the positive trends that
have been reported. Containing such an eventuality falls to the UWA and other
government agencies. Increased demographic pressure could undermine one o fthe
Trust's primarycontributions.

4.54     Finally, the Trust has benefited from sustained support and collaborationfrom the
GOU. While there is no reason to suspectthat support mightbe withdrawn, bureaucratic
competition or pressure from other agencies working on conservation might threaten the

                                                22


autonomy o f the Trust. As most o f these agencies are already represented on the TMB,
the likelihood o fthis happening is negligible, but ina potentially volatile political
landscape, it cannot be ignoredcompletely.

                                  BANKPERFORMANCE

4.55    Overall, the Bank's performance insupport o f the preparationand implementation
was satisfactory. The Bank Team worked well with the GOU indeveloping an
innovative project that was well defined androoted inthe community, and it provided
regular support to the people charged with its implementation. By the time the Bank
brought its responsibility for it project to an end, the project was prosperingwiththe
support o fthe DGIS and it seemedto be addressing the critical financial and
administrative issues raised during Bank supervision. That a number o f these issues still
persist five years after the close o f the Bank's commitment may have more to do with the
style and character o fthe TMB than failures inthe Bank's performance.

4.56    Although the Project did not undergo a QAG review, its Quality at Entry was
highlysatisfactory.Throughout the process of identification, preparationand appraisal
o f the MBIFCT project, the Bank's worked closely with the GOU andwith a special Task
Force that oversaw the technical planningand designo fthe project. The Task Force
included key stakeholders such as CARE Uganda, WWF, the Institutefor Social Science
Research o f Makerere Universityandthe Institute for Tropical Forest Conservation,
along with the Bank Team. Representatives o f GOU agencies, such as the Ministry o f
Tourism, Wildlife and Antiquities, UgandaNational Parks, the Forestry Department,
U SAID and other international donors, localNGOs and community representatives were
also routinely involved.

4.57    The technical studies developed as part ofthe planningand designprocess were
comprehensive, particularly giventhe innovative "pilot" character o fthe project, and the
fact that information on the environmental issues facing Ugandawere only just beginning
to be developed for the NEAP. The concept of the Trust, hadto be adapted from
experience from outside Africa, such as the BhutanTrust Fundfor Environmental
Conservation and the Foundation for Eastern Carpathian Biodiversity Conservation,
which was a trilateral effort involving projects inPoland, the Ukraine andthe Slovak
Republic. The Bank also drew from its experience with community wildlife projects,
small business credit schemes andrural community development programs inAfrica.
The Bankrelied on sources such as WWF International, the International Gorilla
Conservation Project, andthe Institutefor Tropical Forest Conservationfor information
on the economic and socio-culturalconditions andtrends affecting the parks. The project
complemented these studies with the preparation o f special technical working papers on
the ecological, conservation andeconomic aspects ofthe parksandthe surrounding
communities26andthe results o f the study o fthe economic value o f the Bwindi
Impenetrable Forest National Park to the local communities inthe area prepared by




26. WorkingPaper #2, Ecological,Conservation, and EconomicAspects.

                                                   23


Makerere Uni~ersity.~~      Inaddition, the Bankrequiredthat the GOUpreparean
acceptable ResettlementICompensationPlan for the people affected by the incorporation
of the Mbwa River Tract inthe Bwindi Impenetrable ForestNational Park. A special
Indigenous PeoplesPlanwas neededto addressthe situation ofthe Batwacommunities,
native forest dwellers who, having beenexpelled from Bwindiwhen it became a Forest
and GamePreserveinthe 1930'~~remainedmarginalized Along withthese technical
studies, the Task Force and the Bank conductednumerouspublic consultations to inform
communities about the objectives of the project, gather inputfor its design, and secure
community support for its approval.

4.58    The overall process of preparation and appraisalwas suchthat muchof the
project's its substantive architecturealready had either beenbuilt or would be inplace as
a condition ofproject effectivenessby the time the proposal for the MBIFCT was
submittedfor approval to the Board ofthe Bank. The trust deedandby-laws hadbeen
agreedupon andthe Trust ManagementBoard was established. The Trust Administration
Manual, which coveredthe policies andprocedures of the Trust, grant eligibility criteria,
EIAproceduresandrequirements, andguidelines for the operationofthe LCSC, the
Technical Advisory Committee andthe Trust Administration Unit, hadbeen fully
reviewed and approved. The TMB had selectedan Asset Manager for the Trust Fund and
approvedits investment strategy. The UNP andthe TMB agreedon a MOU. The Bank's
conditions regarding the preparationof a Resettlement Plan and an Indigenous People's
Planwere met, andthe Bank andTMB hadreviewed andapprovedthe first year work
programs for the TAU, whichincludedthe research grants andUNP requests to be
funded. Finally, anagreementwas also reachedbeforehandwithUSAIDover funding the
first two years of the MBIFCT's operations.

4.59    The quality of the Bank's supervisionofthe MBIFCT project was satisfactory.
Giventhe innovative character of the Trust, supervision was frequent, involved quite
thorough reviews of the project's administration and operations, andproduced
recommendationsthat reflected a flexible andrealistic understandingof the factors
affecting the project. From 1995to its closing at the end of 2000, the MBIFCT project
was subject to frequent supervision visits by a number ofparties. The Bankteam
conducted 10 formal supervision missions during the period, anda,numberof informal
visits that took placewhile staffwas working on associatedoperations such as PAMSU
1/11and capacity building for NEMA.Inaddition to these Bank missions, representatives
of USAIDandthe Royal NetherlandsGovernment also reviewedthe project during the
periods coveredby their support.

4.60    Although supervision is knownto have beencomprehensive, the documentation
available to the PPAR from Bank databasesto substantiatethis conclusion was limitedto
the aide-memoirs for the MidTerm Review and a mission inJune 2000 shortly before the




27. Makerere University, Institute for Environment and NaturalResources ,MUIENRBaseline Study
1993

                                                     24


close of the project.28 Hada complete set of records beenreadily available to IEG, the
achievements of the entire supervision efforts would have beenmore apparent.

4.61     The MTR helpedclarify the strategic focus of the trust program, it challengedthe
TMB to be more assiduous inexercising its internal fiduciary and fund-raising
responsibilities, and it pushedthe TAU to be more aggressiveingetting a comprehensive
M&Eprogram inplace. The impact ofthe Bank's recommendationswas spotty. They
did guide the TMB andthe TAU to more effective managemento f the program and
oversight of the Trust, but they didnot produce a sense of urgency with regardto future
fundraising. Although the TMB didproduce a strategic planandhire a consultant on
fundraising at one point, they hadnot followed through withavigorous fundraising
program after the end of the DGIS grant. Inthis regard, the Bankmay have done the
Trust a disservice after the June 2000 Supervisionmission by downplaying the urgency
of a comprehensivefundraising strategy because, at the time, the financial performance
ofthe Fundappearedto makeit less imperative to raise significant new capital for the
Fund. Similarly, the Bank's pushto meet the M&Eexpectations for the programmay not
have been vigorous enoughto produce anenergetic, positive responsefrom the TMB and
TAU. Unfortunately, the TMB's sluggish responseto some ofthe Bank's
recommendationsmeant that several critical issues - fundraising and M&E - remained
unresolvedbythe time the Bank endedits formal involvement inthe project.

                                  BORROWERPERFORMANCE

4.62    Inthe caseofthe MBIFCTproject, the role ofthe GOUcannot easily be
separated from the role of the implementing agency as several GOU agencies are
representedon Trust ManagementBoard of the MBIFCT, which inturn, i s the
implementing agency for the project. For purposes ofthis evaluation, however, we will
treat the performanceof the government as separate. The overall rating for Borrower
performanceis satisfactory.The GOU made a serious commitment to making the project
work from the very beginning, andthe MBIFCT, which is the Implementing Agency, has
managedthe project relatively well.

4.63    The performanceofthe GOU and local governmentwas highly satisfactory
throughout the preparationand implementation ofthe MBIFCT project. Committed to
making its first GEF grant a success, the GOU facilitated agreements for financial and
technical support for project preparation, expeditedthe provision of information and data
to the best of its ability, and collaborated closely with the Bankto complete the detail
legal and financial work that made it possible to have the trust deed, the by-laws andthe
Trust Administration Board(including the Trust Administration Manual) formally agreed
uponbefore the project became effective. Moreover, by the time the project was launched
in 1995,the GOUhadsatisfied the Bank's conditions regardingthe preparationof a
Resettlement Plan and an Indigenous PeoplesPlan, andthe institutionally weak Uganda
National Parkshadcompleted an MOUwith the TMB and defined its requirements for
the first years' work program. The novelty andcomplexity ofthe Trust concept caused



28. A review o fBank electronic information databases, as well as archival files didnot produce a complete,
chronologically ordered set o f aide memoirs for the Supervision missions.

                                               25


some delays inreaching agreements, and the weaknesses o f UgandaNational Parks,
which lackedtechnical and logistical capacity, as well as financial resources, reduced its
ability to contribute fully to the preparation o fthe project. The government's
participation inMBIFCT, as the implementingagency for the project has been
cooperative, constant and effective. Local government inthe form o f the Local District
Councils has also played an active role. Community representatives on the TMB, as well,
as on the Local Community Steering Committee are appointed by the LDC3 that has
carried out this role ina responsive manner.

4.64     The MBIFCT is the implementingagency for the project. As a whole, the
performance of the Trust and its several institutional components has beensatisfactory
throughout the implementationo fthe project. The TMB has been diligent inthe exercise
of it fiduciary oversight o f the Fundmanagers and the grant makingprocess, and, after
some prodding from the Bank, it has tightened its supervisiono f the TAU, seeing that
acceptable accountingpolicies andprocedures have been put inplace. As noted earlier,
the MBIFCT has beenweaker inthe areas o f long-term strategic planning, fundraising,
and creating an evaluation system to guide the overall development o f the Trust. The
TAUhas administered the grant makingprocess ina responsive manner and established
good systems for tracking the status o f grants and facilitating technical support. While
the TAU has sufferedfrom highstaffturnover inthe past, ithadbecome more stable,
albeit smaller, at the time o f the evaluation. Finally, the performance o fthe Local
Community Steering Committee has beena key to the project's success as a community-
basedgrant-making mechanism. Ithas been diligent inits selection o fprojects for grants
and its oversight o fthe grant implementationprocess. Over the years the LCSC has
shown itself able to reflect on its own role, change its rules inorder to include expandits
membership and make it more diverse, and secure a seat for its chairman on the TMB.

      MONITORING& EVALUATION:DESIGN,IMPLEMENTATION,AND
                                        UTILIZATION

4.65     The Monitoring and Evaluation Strategy and Supervision Plan (Annex 7 o fthe
PAD) was the basis for evaluating the project. At the time, neither the World Banknor
the GEF called for the development o f a log frame as part o fproject appraisal so no such
analysis o fthe interrelationshipbetween the project's objectives andplanned inputs,
outputs and expected outcomes and impacts was spelled out with specific indicators in
the ProjectDocument. Later, a logframe was retrofitted for the ICRbutitprovidedlittle
more than a retrospective list o f stated intentions and objectives achieved, a sort o f log
frame as self-fulfilling prophecy.

4.66     The overall M&Eperformance o fthe MBIFCT is modest.Bank guidance and
supervision on M&Edesignfailed to move the TMB andTAU to implement a
comprehensive system, but some o fthe elements o f a systemwere put inplace and
produced useful data about the outputs and financial performanceo fthe Trust.
Moreover, the DGIS grant enabled the MBIFCT to support the ITFC`s more formal, but
fragmentary monitoring o f the ecological and socio-economic trends inthe parks. Absent
an agreed upon approach with clear measures o f outcomes and impacts, the overall
contributiono f these various M&Eelements cannot bejudged substantially.

                                               26


4.67     The ProjectDocument didoffer general guidance for the designof an M&E
system butdidnot offer a definitive schemethat could beput into practice fromthe
outset. The intentionwas that the guidance set forth inthe ProjectDocument, which later
was reflected inthe Trust Administration Manual approved as a condition ofproject
effectiveness, would be the framework for the M&E system that the MBIFCT would
design andimplement once the project got underway. Judging from the Project
Document that went to the Board, the guidance was too broadto steer the MBIFCTto a
detailed systematic approach to M&Ewithout additional support from outside specialists.
As such, the contributionofthe design to a useful M&Esystem mustbe considered
modestat best.

4.68     Inaformal sense, the MBIFCTdidnot implementa comprehensive system for
monitoring and evaluating the performance o fthe Trust. The absence o f such a system i s
underscored inboththe Mid-TermReview and the Aide Memoir o f the final Supervision
Mission conducted inJune 2000. The MTRnotes that specific performance indicators
andtargets were not yet fully definedandpoints out that the TMB andthe TAUhas not
initiated any systematic performance or impact monitoring o fthe program and its three
componentparts.29

4.69    The absence of a comprehensive system does not meanthat nothing was done
withregardto M&E. With considerable prodding from the Bank, the TMB has become
more thorough inits review o fthe performance o f the Trust Fund, reporting from the
investment managers has beensteady and complete, internal accounting systems have
improved steadily, and the TAU andthe LCSC have instituted systems for tracking grant-
making andproject implementationactivities that have established a substantial store o f
information on the operations o f the Trust. The two annual reports issued by the Trust for
1997-2002 and 2002-2005, respectively, provide a very good recordo fthe Trust's
activities. The researchprogramhas also provided data and informationuseful to the
monitoring and evaluation o fthe parks.

4.70    The EcologicalMonitoringProgramis the most effective M&E instrument funded
bythe MBIFCT. The EMP seeks to determine the reductionofthreats to the forests in
BINP and MGNP and the changes inthe conditions o f the forests. The EMP has made a
substantial contributionto the UWA's and others ability to monitor trends inMgahinga
andBwindi.Eventhough theprogram, strictly speaking is underthe ITFC andnot the
MBIFCT, the latter's funds have kept it going untilrecently. Inthe future, securing
regular fundingfor the EMP will be a major challenge for the Trust, as well as ITFC.
Eventhough the EMP's contributionto the implementationofthe M&Eprogramfor the
parks can be considered substantial, the advances made inimplementing M&Eo f the
specific activities o f the Trust can only be rated as modest.




29. P 19-20, MidtermReviewAide Memoir ,Uganda:MgahingaandBwindiImpenetrableForest
ConservationTrust

                                                 27


M&EUtilization

4.71     At this stage, it is difficult to draw definitive conclusionabout the usefulness o f
M&Eto MBIFCT.Theuneven, fragmented M&Eactivitiesthat do exist haveproduced
some useful products: careful monitoring o f the financial performance o f the Trust Fund
and its managers ledto a decisionto change investment strategy and investment
managers; the informationthat the TAU routinely gathers on grant-making and project
implementationhas allowed for the publication and distribution o f detailed annual reports
that inform the community andthe variety o f stakeholders effected by the Trust; and the
products o fthe EMP have deepened available knowledge about the factors influencing
changes inthe parks. What i s not clear, however, i s what the overall impact o f the
MBIFCT has beenon the welfare o f the affected community and the health of the
biodiversity o f the parks. The recent Post ImplementationImpact Assessment was only
able to draw on individual topical studies and interviews with beneficiaries to analyze the
impact of the Trust programbecause no formal, comprehensive M&E system had
produced critical data on indicators and causal linkages explaining the program's
impacts.30A more diligent and urgent responseto the Bank's intentions on M&Ewould
have made this much easier.



5. LESSONSLEARNED

5.1      The lessons learned from the experience ofthe MBIFCT over the past 10years
are related to the fundamental premises o fthe project, its structure, the focus o f its
activities, the co-financing strategy, projectpreparationand supervision, andthe
integrationo f M&E into its routine operations.

5.2      Not surprisingly,the PPAR's appraisal of the overall outcome o f the MBIFCT
echoes the findings o f a comparative review o f 13 conservation trust funds that the GEF
completed in 1999.A quote from the summary o fthat review, which includedthe
MBIFCT inUganda, captures much o f what emerged inthe PPAR:

5.3      "The team found that trust funds have impressiveaccomplishments inthe areas
o f (a) supporting protected areas, including enabling the creation o f new national parks,
expansion o f existing areas, and providing basic `resources security' for their operations,
(b) generating andmanagingfinancial resources, (c) enablingthe participation o f civil
society inresource conservation, (d) increasing the level o f scientific research applied to
conservation issues, (e) and increasing public awareness o f conservation issues.
Uncertainty remains, however, about trust funds ability to demonstrate long-term
biodiversity conservation impact. Inpart, this i s due to the difficulty o f measuring
conservation impact, and o f attributing impact to a particular intervention, particularly




30. World Bank/GEF Impact Assessment: The Bwindi impenetrable NationalPark and MgahingaGorilla
National Park Conservation Project Draft Report, 21December2005.

                                                28


over the short term. It is also true that trust funds generate relatively small amount o f
resources relative to conservation needs." 31

5.4      As we have seen, the MBIFCT canbe considered a success, andthe lessons we
can draw from it offer useful guidance for the future. The projectsmain lessons are
examined below.

5.5      The MBIFCT project set out to demonstrate whether a Trust Fundcouldprovide a
stable source o f funding for biodiversity conservation activities. The experience o fthe
MBIFCT shows that this certainly can bedone, butthis central lessonis coloredby a
number o f critically important caveats, each one o f which constitutes a lesson inits own
right:

5.6      Careful consideration should be given to managingthe assets o f the Fundso that
itcancontinue to generate sufficient incometo cover the costs ofthe programat the
expected level for a sufficiently lengtho f time to produce the agreed upon conservation
gains. The financial scenarios generated by the Bank for the MBIFCT established
valuable targets and scenarios for guiding the managers o f the Fund.

5.7      Fundsinvestedandmanaged offshoreby internationallyrespected investment
managers, nevertheless require thorough andregular oversight from the Bank and from
the BoarddManagers o fthe Trust. This is important for buildingthe capacity ofthe
Board/Managers, and for ensuringacceptable performanceon the part o f the Fund
Managers.

5.8      Securing initial co-financing for the start up period o f the Fundoffers an effective
way o f for testingfund managers and investment strategies, while allowing time for the
Fundto reinvest gains unburdenedby draw downs on income for administration and
operations. This provides vital breathingroom for a fund to grow, especially ifit i s
undersized at the outset.

5.9     A co-financing strategy should not involve more funding thanthe Trust Fund
eventually will be expected to provide for administration and operations inorder to avoid
distorting long-term expectations about the operations o f the Fund.Readily available
donor support can create a lack o f urgency on the part o f BoarManagers with regardto
controlling administrative costs or future fundraising. The programpriorities o fthe
Trust may also become too donor driven. The Bank andshouldwork closely withTrust
managers to plan for the Trust's transition away from dependence on donor support.

5.10    The effectiveness o fa trust is enhancedby incorporatingkey stakeholders in
decision making about its overall management (TMB) and grant makingoperations
(LCSC). Such participation increases the legitimacy o f the trust and deepens the
community's sense o f ownership o f its fundamental goals, as well as its specific program
activities.




31. GEF, EvaluationReport#1-99, Experiencewith ConservationTrust Funds, Washington D.C. 1999.

                                              29


5.1 1   Ifpriority is givento community participationingrant-making, localcommunity
development needs will take precedence over biodiversity conservation activities not
directly tiedto livelihood objectives. A conservationtrust mustbe prepared to accept the
trade offs requiredinthese cases, as long as they ultimately enhance the community's
appreciation and support for the overall conservation missiono fthe trust.

5.12    A trust aimed at funding small grants for community development and/or
productive activities must recognize that the implementation andoversight ofthese grants
may require heavier inputs of technical support andtime thanoriginally expected. These
technical assistance activities should be considered part o f the development mission and
operational budget o fthe trust rather than a narrow administrativefunction.

5.13    The MBIFCT's strategic focus on community development, research and support
for park management activities were too ambitious to withstandthe tight budget
constraints imposedon the project after the termination o f the DGIS grant. Whenthe
project was conceived the logic behindthis focus was clear. For future projects, however,
it would bemoreprudentto beginwith a narrower focus that couldbe sustained inthe
face o f changing circumstances rather than be forced to suspendor eliminate funding
others come to dependupon.

5.14    Unless an early, deliberate and sustained effort i s made to install and implement
M&E systems inaproject, M&E will take a back seat to immediateoperational needs.
While the Trust has maintainedand developed the informationrequiredfor financial and
administrative audits and recordkeepingon grant making, it repeatedly delayed
developing the means to measure the impact o f its activities. This objective has not been
directly satisfied by the EMP, which focuses its monitoring on the conditions and trends
withthe parks, butnot onthe impact ofthe MBIFCT.

5.15    For innovative projects like the MBIFCT, the Bank should investheavily during
project preparation indefining and securing agreement and structuringthe administrative,
legal and financial aspects o fthe project so that it i s ready to beginoperations
immediately upon becoming effective. The detailedwork on these matters done by the
Bank's team duringproject preparation (and later during supervision) was one o f the key
elements o f its success.


                                          31                                 Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

UGANDA BWINDIIMPENETRABLENATIONAL PARK AND MGAHINGA GORILLA
NATIONAL PARKCONSERVATIONPROJECT
Key ProjectData (amounts in US$ million)
                                      Appraisal        Actual or      Actual as % of
                                       estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                      5.28             7.98              151
Loan amount                               4.0             4.39              109
Cofinancing                               8.9             3.59              40
Cancellation                              n.a.            n.a.


Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                    FY94               FY95               FY96
Appraisal estimate (US$M)            0                  4.37              4.37
Actual (US$M)                        0                  4.35              4.35
Actual as % of appraisal             0                  99.6              99.6
Date of final disbursement:  3/18/1996


ProjectDates
                                              Original                 Actual
PCD                                                                  07/15/1993
Appraisal                                                            09/20/1993
Board approval                                   -                   01/24/1995

              Effectiveness                 07/12/1995               0711211995
Closing date                                12/31/1999               12/31/2000



StaffInputs(staff weeks)
    Stages of project cycle          No of staff weeks              US$ (`000)
Identification/preparation               71.5                         153.80

AppraisaVnegotiation                    26.7                          56.20

Supervision                             44.9                          150.16

ICR                                      12.6                         42.04

Total                                   155.6                        402.20

Annex B                                32


MissionData                                                            I


                 Date       No of       Specializations          lmplementa Develop-
             (month/year)  person        represented                 tion      mint
                             S                                    Progress   objective

 IdentificationlPreparation
             3116/93          I   Sr. Ecologist
 AppraisallNegotiation
             Appraisal
             9/20/93
             Negotiations     2   Sr. Ecologist, Legal Specialist
             3/3/94
 Supervision
             7113/95                                                 HS         HS
             4110196           2  Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist     HS         HS
             7/9/96            2  Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist     HS         HS
             6/23/97          2   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist     HS         HS
             5118/98           5  Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist,    HS         HS
                                  Community Participation
                                  Spec., Conservation Finance
                                  Spec.
             8/27/99                                                 HS        HS
             6112/00          3   Env. Specialist, Sr. Ecologist     HS         HS
 ICR
             5115/01          2   Env. Specialist, Sr




Other Project Data
BorrowerIExecuting Agency:

FOLLOW-ON  OPERATIONS
                Operation               Creditno.         Amount         Board date
                                                        (US$ million)

n.a.

