Document of                       c
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3808a-DOM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOMINICA
March 4, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = East Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
Since its creation in 1965, the East Caribbean dollar
was tied to sterling at the rate of £ 1.00 = EC$ 4.8.
In July 1976, the link with sterling was broken and the
East Caribbean dollar was aligned with the US dollar at
the rate of US$1.00 = EC$ 2.70.
Since July 1976:
EC$ 1.00 = US$0.37
US$1.00   = EC$ 2.70
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                                  British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                       =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =         0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)          =        0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)             =         2.205 pounds (lb)
1 cubic meter (m3)                =        1.3 cubic yards (cu yd)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADT            Average Daily Traffic
BDD             British Development Division
CDB             Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
EDF             European Development Fund
EEC             European Economic Community
IDA            International Development Association
MCWT            Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism
OPEC            Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPEC Fund       OPEC Fund for International Development
USAID          United States Agency for International Development
VPD             Vehicles Per Day



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOMINICA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR   ......................................                    1
A.    General  ...............................................                  1
B.   The Transport System ...................................                   1
C.    Administration and Planning ...........................                   2
II.  THE ROAD SUBSECTOR .........................................                     2
A.    The Road Network ......        .................                          2
B.    Traffic, Vehicle Fleet, and Road Transport
Regulations ........................                                   3
C.   Administration and Planning .........................                     4
D.   Financing and User Charges  ..... ..............                           4
E.    Engineering and Construction  ..... .............                         5
F.    Maintenance and Rehabilitation  ..... ...........                         6
III. THE ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM,
1982-1985 .............            ...................................       7
A.    Objectives and Scope  ..................................                  7
B.    Program Costs  .........................................                10
IV.  THE PROJECT         ........................      ........................     12
A.    General Description  ...................................                 12
B.    Project Components  ....................................                13
C.    Cost Estimates and Financing .....             .....................    15
D.    Execution, Procurement and Monitoring  ..............           ...     18
E.   Project Risks  .......         ...................................       20
V.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................................                   20
A.    General  ...............................................                20
B.    Road Rehabilitation Component  .........................    20
C.    Feeder Road Construction and Improvements  ....              .........    22
D.    Reconstruction of the Roseau East Bridge  ....              ..........    22
E.    Road Maintenance Program ..............................                 22
F.    Summary Economic Evaluation of Project Components    .....    23
G.    Distribution of Benefits  ..............................                23
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................    24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which
visited Dominica during October/November 1981. The mission comprised
Ms. Katherine Sierra (Transport Economist) and Mr. C. Powers (Consultant).
The report has been edited by Miss Virginia R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 1
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
2.1  Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions,
1976/77-1980/81 .........................................    26
3.1  Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1982-1985 ....      27
4.1  List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment ....      ................    28
4.2  Estimated Disbursement Schedule ...........................    29
5.1  Representative Vehicle Operating Costs ....      ................    30
5.2  Details of Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
Economic Analysis .......................................    31
ANNEXES
1.   Summary Statement .........................................    32
2.   Scope of Work for Annual Audit of Project Accounts ........      36
3.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File        37
CHARTS
1.   Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism,
Technical Branch       ................... ....................    38
2.  Implementation Schedule ............      .......................  39
MAP
IBRD 16154 - Dominica - Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Dominica, the largest of the Windward Islands in the Eastern
Caribbean, has a total land area of 750 sq km and a population of about
83,000.  The island is mountainous and heavily forested, with spectacular
scenery.  The mountains rise, in places, sheer out of the sea, and the
island's twin peaks are each over 1,350 meters high. Although Dominica
lacks mineral resources and white sand beaches, arable land is not in short
supply, and water is abundant. The average rainfall is over 2,500 mm a year,
with some areas of the interior receiving as much as 7,500 mm annually
(Map IBRD 16154).
1.02      The island is served by three transport modes: air, sea and
road. External transport needs are satisfactorily met by air and maritime
infrastructure. In contrast, internal communications are extremely difficult
because of the severely deteriorated condition of the island's road network.
1.03      Dominica's economy, which is heavily dependent upon agriculture,
has faced increasing difficulties in recent years. In the first half of
the 1970s, it experienced several years of declining output: the agricul-
tural sector performed badly, the road network was neglected and private
investment fell. In the three years prior to independence in 1978, there
was a moderate recovery in output. However, the economy further deteri-
orated after 1978. The difficult situation was exacerbated in 1979 and 1980
by the devastation caused by three hurricanes - David, Frederick and Allen -
within a 12-month period. Following the worst hurricane, David, the banana
crop was completely wiped out and other crops were substantially destroyed.
Considerable damage was sustained by the road network and sea defenses.
Dominica's economy is now in a recovery phase and has experienced a
resurgence in agricultural output, especially bananas. Among the tasks ahead
is the restoration of the economy's productive capacity, including the
rehabilitation of supporting infrastructure. The rehabilitation of the road
network and the improvement of road maintenance practices are urgently
required to support the revitalization of the island's productive capacity,
particularly that of the agricultural sector.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Air Transport
1.04      Dominica has two airstrips: the main airstrip at Melville Hall,
on the northeast coast, and Canefield, two miles from the capital city,
Roseau. The Melville Hall Airport has a 1,460 m unlighted runway and a
passenger terminal. Daily flights are operated to and from neighboring
islands. The major disadvantage of the facility is that passengers from
Roseau must drive almost two hours over a tortuous 53-km road to reach the
Melville Hall Airport. The Canefield airstrip, constructed in 1979 and
improved in 1981, is only 613 m long, which limits it to light aircraft.
Together, the airports are adequate to accommodate the traffic and types of
aircraft serving Dominica.  Passenger traffic at the Melville Hall Airport
grew from 39,000 in 1970 to 72,000 in 1978, falling to 58,000 in 1979.



-2-
(ii) Ports
1.05      Most of Dominica's freight tonnage is moved by sea.  Traffic
statistics from 1975 to 1978 indicate that export traffic increased from
44,000 tons in 1975 to 55,000 tons in 1978 and subsequently fell to 18,000
tons in 1980 because of the effects of Hurricanes David and Allen upon
agriculture. In 1978, bananas accounted for 75% of all exports. During
the same period, import tonnage grew from 43,000 tons in 1975 to 71,000
tons in 1978. Higher-than-normal import levels were experienced in 1980
(89,000 tons), as a result of the emergency efforts in that year. The
island has a deepwater port at Woodbridge Bay, near Roseau, which handles
its general cargo and a quarter of its agricultural exports. This port was
damaged by Hurricane David in 1979, but the most urgent repairs required to
keep the port in operation have been completed. The remaining restoration
works are currently under way with Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)
financing. The bulk of Dominica's export crops, particularly bananas, are
shipped through a jetty at Portsmouth, located in the northwest corner of
the island. This jetty, which is in poor condition, is being reconstructed
with funds from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
C.   Administration and Planning
1.06      The Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism (MCWT) is
responsible for the formulation and implementation of transport policy
in coordination with the Economic Development Unit. In addition, MCWT
is responsible for the execution of works relating to the subsector.
The ports of Dominica are administered by the Dominica Port Authority.
1.07      The principal goal of the present Government in the transport
sector is the rapid rehabilitation of the road network and the establish-
ment of adequate road maintenance. To this end, a Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Program 1982-1985 has been prepared. This Program, which
would be supported by the proposed project, is described in Chapter III.
Briefly, it calls for the rehabilitation of 227 km of main road and
14 bridges, the reconstruction of 43 km of feeder roads and the planning
and execution of a four-year road and equipment maintenance program
(para 3.01).
II. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A.   The Road Network
2.01      Dominica's road network comprises some 750 km of motorable
roads and streets and about 450 km of penetration roads and tracks which
are traversable only on foot or by horseback.  Of the motorable roads, only
320 km are paved, 300 km have either volcanic ash called "tarrish" or river
gravel all-weather surface, and the remaining 130 km are improved earth
roads. Only a few of the road sections have been constructed according to
engineering design standards. The roads are generally of one-lane width
and without shoulders. Because of the predominantly mountainous topography,
most road sections have abrupt changes in horizontal and vertical alignments.



- 3 -
The road network is in very poor condition overall. Extreme weather
conditions, including the devastating effects of hurricanes in 1979 and
1980, coupled with the effects of years of inadequate maintenance and aged
pavement and drainage systems, contributed to the severe deterioration of
the roads. Pavements are broken up over substantial length because of
insufficient depth, and the roads with earth surfaces can be traversed only
with difficulty, even in dry periods. Roadside drainage is virtually non-
existent.
2.02      Even though the traffic volumes outside the Roseau area are rela-
tively low (100-600 ADT), the road network is essential for meeting the
transport needs of the island.  It serves most of the island's population,
which is scattered along the coastline in about 80 villages and towns, as
well as the main airport, the two ports and the areas of agricultural
production.  It is considered that the network, if rehabilitated and
properly maintained, would be adequate for the country's present needs, and
its expansion would be required only in connection with the opening up of
new areas for exploitation of timber and other natural resources.
B.   Traffic, Vehicle Fleet, and Road Transport Regulations
2.03       Spot counts on all important roads were carried out by a consul-
tant in 1974 and, at appraisal, counts were organized on the main roads.
The most heavily trafficked section on the island is the Layou-Roseau-
Loubiere road, with an ADT of about 2,300 vehicles per day (vpd).  The west
coast road from Layou to Portsmouth, the road from Layou to the Melville
Hall Airport and the Loubiere to Grand Bay road have ADTs ranging from 350
to 600 vpd. The remainder of the main roads carry between 100 and 300
vpd.  Based on comparisons between the 1974 counts and those conducted at
appraisal, it appears that, between 1974 and 1980, traffic declined or
stagnated on roads serving agricultural areas. These roads are the most
severely deteriorated. The stagnation and decline in traffic are most
likely due to the joint effects of poor agricultural performance since the
hurricanes and the poor condition of the roads, with their attendant high
vehicle operating costs. On the other hand, traffic on the main west coast
road, which has relatively better riding qualities, has increased by 6%
p.a. near Roseau, and by 15% p.a. on the sections substantially improved
with European Development Fund (EDF) financing in 1978. Traffic on the
island's main roads is expected to grow between 3% and 5% over the coming
years, reflecting the expected improvement in the economy and decreased
vehicle operating costs as a result of the proposed road rehabilitation
program.
2.04      According to estimates, the island's vehicle population in 1974
was about 3,600 units, of which 60% are cars.  This population remained
fairly static between 1974 and 1978, but since then it has grown substan-
tially, and, by January 1981, it reached about 4,900 units.  Of these, 63%
were cars, 26% trucks and buses, 6% hire cars, and the remaining 5% motor-
cycles and tractors.
2.05      The road transport industry, with the exception of passenger
services, is not closely regulated by the Government. Truck rates are
freely set through competition. Taxi and minibus fares are set in consul-
tation with representatives of industry by MCWT. These fares are revised
often and are adequate to cover operating and replacement costs. While
there are no vehicle weight and dimension regulations, excessive truck
loading does not appear to be a problem on the island.



- 4-
C.   Administration and Planning
2.06      MCWT is responsible for all activities related to the national
road network. In practice, limitations of funds, manpower and equipment
have dictated that the Ministry's efforts be concentrated on primary roads
and on certain feeder roads, leaving the majority of the strictly local
roads to be maintained by the village councils and local residents. The
Chief Technical Officer of MCWT has responsibility for all public works at
the national level. His technical staff consists of an experienced highway
engineer who serves as his deputy, an expatriate technical advisor
furnished by the British Development Division (BDD) and three young
graduate engineers. There is no Highway Department as such, partly because
the national road network is so small and partly because there is a
scarcity of qualified technical personnel.   For administrative and mainte-
nance purposes, the country is divided into four districts, each with a
maintenance superintendent (Chart 1).
2.07      Quite normally, there has been no formal highway planning asso-
ciated with the Dominican road network.   There is no systematic collection
of traffic or inventory data. Expansion and improvement of the basic
network over the past two decades were guided by the obvious need to
provide adequate road transportation linking major crop-producing areas
with the capital and with the port facilities at Roseau and Portsmouth.
The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program represents the Government's
first effort at systematic road investment planning (para 3.01).
D.   Financing and User Charges
2.08      Road expenditures are financed by the Government through annual
budget allocations to MCWT and by grants and loans from bilateral and
multilateral sources. Table 2.1 contains a summary of funds provided for
roads between 1976/77 and 1980/81. Between 1976/77 and 1978/79, capital
expenditures on roads and bridges averaged EC$ 1.0 million p.a. Actual
funds available for maintenance, however, consistently fell short of offi-
cial budget estimates. Maintenance expenditures averaged EC$ 1.6 million
p.a. between 1976/77 and 1978/79, increasing substantially in 1979/80 to
EC$ 4.4 million and to EC$ 3.0 million in 1980/81, reflecting the emergency
requirements after the 1979 hurricane. The 1981/82 budget allocation is
EC$ 2.4 million, but actual funds available are averaging about EC$ 125,000
per month or about 40% below budget levels. The Ministry of Finance
indicated that it would release the budgeted funds if MCWT had an adequate
maintenance work program to support its requests (para 2.17).
2.09      Revenues from road user charges, although not earmarked for
road expenditures, are more than sufficient to cover maintenance expendi-
tures (Table 2.1). In 1980, for example, revenue from road user charges
totaled EC$ 4.7 million, as compared to expenditures on maintenance in
1980/81 of EC$ 3.0 million. Taxes on gasoline and motor vehicle imports
are the most important revenue sources. Other important sources are taxes
on diesel fuel, tires and spare parts.



2.10      Fuel prices in Dominica cover c.i.f. import prices and commer-
cialization costs. In October 1981, the retail price of gasoline was
US$2.22 per imperial gallon (US$1.86 per US gallon) and that of diesel was
US$1.67 per imperial gallon (US$1.40 per US gallon). The tax component of
gasoline and diesel oil retail prices is 42% and 11% respectively. 1/
E.   Engineering and Construction
2.11      Detailed engineering for road projects in Dominica has been
carried out almost entirely by foreign consultants, under external financ-
ing. This is understandable considering that all important infrastructure
projects in recent years have been "package deals" under foreign grants,
and, consequently, there has been no incentive to build up a design capacity
in MCWT. The Ministry does have a materials laboratory, but lacks the
necessary equipment for complete testing of construction materials. National
design standards for roads have not been developed; each project consultant
has followed his own judgment or guidelines established by the financing
agency.   Because of the low traffic volumes on most Dominican roads, minimal
geometric and pavement design standards have been used. Those main road
sections which have been engineered and built recently have 18 ft (5.5 m) wide
pavements and 5 ft (1.5 m) wide shoulders. However, most of the road sections
to be rehabilitated under the Program, because of the predominantly
mountainous terrain, would not be widened to achieve the desirable 5.5 m
pavement width. New feeder roads, in general terms, have 10 ft (3 m)
pavements and 1 ft 6 in (0.5 m) shoulders, which is of adequate standard for
the volume of traffic on these roads.
2.12      MCWT supervises some force-account works, such as the current
construction of the Portsmouth-Capuchin road, but record-keeping and
quality control are deficient. A foreign advisor has recently been assist-
ing the Ministry in supervising the force-account construction of coastal
sea defenses and will assist in supervising the reconstruction of some 43
km of feeder roads which is being financed by the CDB.  Because of the
shortage of skilled personnel, those assigned to force-account supervision
are diverted from maintenance activities. Hired labor has been used to
carry out these labor-intensive works.
1/   The structure of prices for gasoline and diesel oil in US$ per US
gallon in October 1981 was:
Gasoline        Diesel Oil
Base Price Plus Sales Margin             1.08              1.25
Taxes                                    0.78              0.15
User Price                                1.86             1.40
International Price /a                   1.00              0.92
/a   Average c.i.f. price of these products imported to the Caribbean
area.



- 6 -
2.13      Presently, there are no local road-building contractors since
there has been no sustained investment program which would support such an
industry. The improvement of the East and West coastal highways, financed
by EDF in 1978, was carried out by foreign contractors, with limited local
participation in activities such as hauling. A few individuals have some
construction equipment units, such as dump trucks or bulldozers, which are
utilized mainly in building construction and housing development. A small
group of people on the island have sufficient background and would be
capable of providing support to foreign contractors undertaking road rehab-
ilitation projects under the Program. It is reasonable to assume that the
experience gained from the association with foreign contractors would
promote the development of a small local construction industry. The
consultants to be engaged under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project (para 4.06) would determine the scope for developing local
contracting units and provide related training for individuals as may be
needed in the industry. A sustained program of road rehabilitation and
maintenance is considered to be the basic requirement for the development
of small specialized road contractors.
2.14      MCWT operates a crushing plant on the northwest side of the
island, near the principal airport, and there is a commercial operation
near Roseau. Both plants have limited capacity. However, the owner of the
commercial plant is in the process of acquiring a larger plant, which would
be set up in a new quarry near the town of Machant, and which would have at
least four times greater capacity than the existing plant. An additional
crusher owned by a former local contractor is scheduled to be renovated and
set up in time to produce material for the road rehabilitation works.
Supplies from these sources would obviate the need for foreign contractors
to set up their own crushing plants.
F.   Maintenance and Rehabilitation
2.15      In the past, road maintenance efforts in Dominica were sporadic
and poorly executed. MCWT had no established practices or schedules for
maintenance. There was no established annual maintenance program, and
field activities were often dictated by political and emergency
considerations and the uncertain availability of funds. The maintenance
budget was insufficient to deal with the large backlog of deferred
maintenance.  Indeed, much of the 1981/82 budget has gone for storm damage
repair, with routine activities such as patching, culvert and ditch
cleaning, and cutting of roadside vegetation receiving little attention.
2.16      The Government recognized the need to provide adequate funding
for road maintenance, but was reluctant to release budgeted funds because
MCWT did not have a planned work program. The maintenance component of the
Program addresses this problem by introducing a more systematic approach to
the planning and execution of routine and periodic maintenance.  In
addition to providing the basis for justifying and efficiently utilizing
Government's funding for maintenance, it is expected that this Program
would lead to improvement in the balance between routine and periodic
maintenance and would provide for improved utilization of equipment.
Moreover, the Program would be formulated to utilize labor-intensive
techniques for maintenance wherever appropriate, using mainly daily labor.



2.17      As part of the development of the maintenance component of the
overall Program, budgeting requirements, assuming that the planned
rehabilitation of the main roads is implemented, were estimated in global
terms.  These estimates were reviewed and updated at negotiations to take
into consideration the condition of the network over the Program period.
It is estimated that, at 1981 prices, an EC$ 2.4 million annual routine and
periodic maintenance budget exclusive of administration and overhead would
provide for an adequate level of road maintenance between FY 1982/83 and
FY 1985/86.  This estimate takes into account the fact that substantially
reduced levels of periodic maintenance (such as resealing) on the paved
network would be required over the Program period since about 65% of the
paved network would be rehabilitated in those years. The Government's
agreement to ensure that these funds are approved and released in a timely
manner was confirmed at negotiations. The 1982/83 maintenance budget,
which was reviewed and agreed with the Government, would provide an
adequate level of funding for road maintenance. The Government also agreed
at negotiations that detailed estimates of the maintenance budget, breaking
down expenditures into major activity categories and into labor, materials
and equipment, would be prepared for FY 1983/84 and sent to the Association
for review and comment by February 1983 and annually thereafter, prior to
submission of the budget to parliament.
2.18      MCWT's equipment is administered in a central pool and is hired
out to Government agencies and private individuals at established rates.
This Equipment Hire Fund Scheme is working relatively well, except that
rates have not been high enough to provide for periodic replacement of aged
equipment. At negotiations, it was confirmed that the Equipment Hire Fund
charges would be revised annually and that charges would be set to ensure
recovery of the costs of owning, maintaining and operating the equipment.
2.19      MCWT's fleet is composed of 130 units, of which 96 are considered
usable. The average age of the fleet is low, probably no more than four
years. However, a high number of dump trucks are nearing the end of their
useful life. The balance of the fleet is inadequate, with a high propor-
tion of heavy construction units. The availability of units is low because
of low productivity in the workshops. Utilization of available equipment
is also low because of the lack of maintenance programing and the failure
to utilize available equipment efficiently. BDD is providing technical
assistance in the form of three specialists in the management of equipment,
shops and stores. Two of these experts have already arrived in Roseau, and
the third is expected in early 1982. These experts would work together
with the technical assistance consultants under the project (para 4.06) in
improving equipment availability and utilization. BDD is also financing
improvement to MCWT's central workshops and stores which will facilitate
the proper maintenance of equipment.
2.20      Road maintenance has traditionally been carried out by force
account. Recently, however, MCWT has begun contracting of roadside and
ditch cleaning, with satisfactory results. MCWT is planning to explore,
with the assistance of the technical assistance consultants under the
project, the most efficient way to increase the use of contractors in the
execution of maintenance.



- 8 -
III. THE ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM, 1982-1985
A.   Objectives and Scope
3.01      MCWT adopted, in November 1981, a Road Maintenance and Rehabili-
tation Program, 1982-1985, which provides a comprehensive effort toward the
rehabilitation of Dominica's road network and which would provide for the
strengthening of MCWT's road maintenance organization and practices to meet
requirements once the rehabilitation is completed. This Program, a part of
which includes the proposed project, would be financed by a number of
external agencies including the Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA), the European Economic Community (EEC) through EDF, the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB), the US Agency for International Development
(USAID), the OPEC Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) and BDD.
The Program comprises:
(a)  The rehabilitation on 227 km of main roads, including 14 bridges.
(b)  The improvement or construction of 43 kn of feeder roads.
(c)  A four-year road and equipment maintenance program which would
provide for the planning and execution of routine and periodic
maintenance of some 750 km of road under MCWT's jurisdiction.
The maintenance program would include:
(i)  intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration of over
320 km of roads, including those roads to be rehabilitated
under item (a) preceding;
(ii) procurement of road maintenance equipment and vehicles
and spare parts; and
(iii) improvements and reorganization of MCWT's central
workshops and stores.
(d) Technical assistance by a consulting firm to staff a Program
Management Unit which would:
(i)  assist MCWT in executing the Program, particularly in
coordinating the activities of the external
contributors;
(ii) prepare and implement the maintenance program, including
organizing and supervising the intensive pavement patching
and drainage restoration program, and train MCWT's office
and field staff and interested individuals in the private
sector in maintenance activities; and
(iii) engineer and supervise the rehabilitation of road
sections, except for those sections financed by CIDA
and EDF.
3.02      To provide for coordination and consistency among the various
contributors, four guiding principles were agreed by the Government and the
major external contributors (Annex 1):



- 9 -
(a) Definition of one coherent Program: contributions would be made
within the context of the coherent Program made up of high
priority elements, which would provide for the buildup of road
and equipment maintenance capability and for the rehabilitation
of roads and bridges. The coordination of the contributions of
the external contributors in an integrated framework is essential
to provide for consistency of action, and to avoid overlap and
waste;
(b) Establishment of a Program Management Unit: a Program Management
Unit, staffed with technical assistance consultants and MCWT
personnel, would be established to assist MCWT to coordinate and
update the Program. Areas for coordination would include:
(i) sources, quantities and supply of quarry materials;
(ii) supply, storage and port access for other materials;
(iii)  local equipment and haulage availability;
(iv) road signs and marking;
(v)  facilitation of permits, licenses, importation, taxation;
(vi) for those road sections which would be separately engineered
and supervised by consultants retained by CIDA and EDF,
receipt and analysis of monthly Progress Reports by the
Program Management Unit. In addition, the consultants
staffing the Unit would review and comment on the
engineering studies prepared for the roads to be
rehabilitated with CIDA and EDF financing;
(vii)  responsibility for development of road and bridge
standards;
(viii)  acting as advisor to MCWT at meetings of a Steering
Committee (made up of MCWT and representatives of
contributing agencies) which would meet periodically to
provide a forum for review of progress and problems. The
formal establishment of this Committee, by September 30,
1982, and its functions were confirmed at negotiations.
(c) External financing of non-recurrent costs: non-recurrent Pro-
gram costs would be fully financed from external sources, with
each agency meeting 100% of the cost of its road section; in any
case, no more than two sources of financing would be involved in
rehabilitating any given road section. The Government's contri-
bution to the Program would be applied to recurrent maintenance
activities; and



- 10 -
(d) Adoption of least cost solutions for road rehabilitation:
least cost rehabilitation standards consistent with the best
use of capital, and with satisfactory economic returns, would be
adopted, with technical solutions emphasizing pavement strength-
ening and drainage improvements, and minimizing geometrical
improvements and widening of the existing roadway.  These solu-
tions, however, would take due account of the safety of road
users and the limited recurrent maintenance resources available.
B.   Program Costs
3.03      The Program's cost (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$36.0 million over the period 1982-1985. The capital investments contem-
plated under the Program represent about 27% of the Government's Public
Sector Investment Program. This level of investment is in line with the
high priority placed by the Government toward the rehabilitation of key
infrastructure. Further, these investments go in hand with priority
investments planned over the same period, aimed at restoring the agricul-
tural sector.  The size of the Program is reasonable, given the fact that,
in the past, the road network had been seriously neglected. It is not
contemplated, however, that this level of investment would be sustained
beyond the Program period.  Instead, provisions are made in the Program
for the establishment of proper road maintenance practices in order to
preserve these investments and thereby avoid deterioration and costly
reconstruction in the future.
3.04      Costs for the Program and sources of financing are summarized on
the following page and in Table 3.1. Some 14% of the total Program costs,
representing administration and recurrent maintenance expenditures, would
be financed by the Government. This is equivalent to about 50% of the
local costs of the Program as a whole. About 54% of the financing require-
ments would be met by CIDA, EDF, CDB, BDD, IDA and the OPEC Fund.
Financing has not been confirmed for the remaining 32% of the Program.
However, the Government is seeking a commitment from USAID for financing of
the 53-km airport road: Roseau-Layou-Hatton Garden. The remaining
component of the Program, for which financing is still required, is the
rehabilitation of 35 km of road scheduled for 1985 and for which economic
justification must still be confirmed (para 5.08).
3.05      At negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement on the
following points regarding the Program and its financing:
(a) that the elements in the Program be given priority over
other capital investments for roads;
(b) that required funds, in real terms, would be provided for
recurrent maintenance expenditures as detailed in Table 2.2;
(c) that the Government and IDA would have annual consultations
regarding the Program's composition, timing and financing
plan; and
(d) that the progress of the program and the status of its
financing plan would be reviewed annually at the meeting of
the Steering Committee, starting by the end of 1982.



- 11 -
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program 1982-1985
Cost Estimates
(US$ millions)
External Contributors
To be
Government  Identified   Found        Total
I. Rehabilitation and
Construction
(a) Road and Bridge
Rehabilitation          -          12.6        9.2        21.8
(b) Feeder Road
Construction            -           1.4         -          1.4
Sub-Total                -          14.0        9.2       23.2
II. Road and Equipment
Maintenance
(a)  Administration           0.4           -          -          0.4
(b)  Recurrent Maintenance   3.4            -          -          3.4
(c) Intensive Patching and
Drainage Restoration  0.2           0.5         -         0.7
(d) Equipment and Workshop
Improvements            -           0.6         -         0.6
(e)  Technical Assistance 1/  -            1.3         -          1.3
(f)  Audit                     -           0.1         -          0.1
Sub-Total               4.0          2.5         -         6.5
BASE COSTS
(Nov. 1981 prices) 2/  4.0          16.5        9.2       29.7
Price Contingencies 3/ 1.0           2.8        2.5         6.3
TOTAL PROGRAM COST      5.0         19.3       11.7 4/    36.0
Percent of Total        14%          54%        32%        100%
1/   Represents US$0.1 million in technical assistance from BDD and
US$1.2 million under the IDA project.
2/   Including physical contingencies.
3/   Price Contingencies:  15% p.a. for local costs; for foreign costs,
8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% p.a. in 1983-1985.
4/   Includes US$8.5 million for the Roseau-Layou-Hatton Garden road, for
which USAID has shown interest but is not yet committed, and US$3.2
million for 35 km of road tentatively in the Program pending confirma-
tion of economic feasibility.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The objectives of IDA's contribution to the MCWT Program are
to provide for coordination and consistency among the various
contributors to the Program and to strengthen MCWT's road maintenance
organization and practices to meet recurrent requirements once the
rehabilitation is completed. As a means toward achieving these
objectives, the IDA project has been defined to include several high
priority components of the Program, selected after analysis of
economic rates of return of the Program's components, and taking into
consideration availability of financing from other sources.  In
addition, the project includes the financing of a Program Management
Unit which would assume responsibility for the management of the
Program and assist in the preparation and execution of a maintenance
program. Table 3.1 gives details of the components of the Program
which would be directly supported by the project.
4.02      The project represents about 20% of total Program costs and
is composed of:
(a) rehabilitation by contract on three road sections:
(i)  Roseau-Loubiere-Pointe Michel (4 km);
(ii)  Loubiere-Grand Bay (13 km); and
(iii) Bois Diable-La Plaine (19 km);
(b) intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration of over
320 km of main roads by MCWT force account;
(c) procurement of about 22 units of road maintenance equipment
and vehicles and spare parts;
(d) technical assistance comprising about 160 man-months of
consultancy service to staff the Program Management Unit,
composed of 110 man-months of expatriate staff and 50
man-months of local support staff. The technical assistance
falls into two general categories:
(i)  engineering and supervision of rehabilitation works
under the Program (except those financed by CIDA and
EDF) and coordination of the Program (39 man-months of
expatriate staff and 50 man-months of local staff); and
(ii)  technical assistance (about 71 man-months) to assist
MCWT in preparing and executing the Road Maintenance
Program and to train maintenance staff.



- 13 -
B.   Project Components
(i) Road Rehabilitation
4.03      The project provides for the rehabilitation of three road
sections totaling 36 km. The Roseau-Loubiere-Pointe Michel (4 km) and the
Loubiere-Grand Bay (13 km) roads, among the most heavily trafficked roads
on the island, would require an asphalt overlay with an average cost of
about US$140,000 per km. The Loubiere-Grand Bay road rehabilitation would
also provide for the reconstruction of two bridges and widening, where
practical, to improve sight distances and traffic safety.  The 19-km Bois
Diable-La Plaine road has lower levels of traffic but is an important
collector for banana and other agricultural crops.  On this road, the more
heavily trafficked Bois Diable-Rosalie section (10 km) would receive an
asphaltic surface treatment with an average cost of US$65,000 per km. The
Rosalie-La Plaine section would receive spot rehabilitation on the most
severely deteriorated parts of that section.
(ii) Intensive Pavement Patching and Drainage Restoration
4.04       Intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration is intended
to temporarily improve the riding qualities and prevent further deteriora-
tion of Dominica's main road system. In addition, the roads would be
prepared for subsequent rehabilitation under the overall Program. This
component provides for the patching of the paved portions, which still lend
themselves to patching, of some 320 km of main road (including the 227 km
to be rehabilitated), as well as for the reshaping of ditches and cleaning
of obstructed culverts along the roads.  The programing and implementation
of this component would be among the immediate tasks to be undertaken by
the Program Management Unit.  Because these works would prepare the roads
for rehabilitation, it was agreed at negotiations that contracts for rehab-
ilitation works under the project would not be signed until at least 70% of
the intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration works on the road
in question have been completed. It is expected that pavement patching and
drainage restoration would be initiated in April 1982, prior to the begin-
ning of the hurricane season (July-October) and be completed by early
1983. The estimated cost of these works is about US$670,000, with a
foreign exchange component of about US$470,000.
(iii) Road Maintenance Equipment and Central Workshop Improvements
4.05      The proposed project would provide for the procurement of about
22 units of road maintenance equipment. Table 4.1 presents a list of
equipment and costs, which was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.
Spare parts, up to 20% of equipment value, would be purchased for this
equipment.  In addition, spare parts would be purchased directly from
suppliers for corrective and preventive maintenance of existing equipment
that can be utilized economically.
(iv) Technical Assistance and Training
4.06      The need for technical assistance to MCWT for implementation of
the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program has been noted previously



- 14 -
(para 3.02).  Specifically, the project would provide technical assistance
by consultants to staff a Program Management Unit. Establishment of this
Unit and contracting of technical assistance consultants, acceptable to
IDA, was confirmed at negotiations. The consultants' task would include
the following:
(a) assistance to MCWT in coordinating the activities of all
contributing agencies participating in the overall Program;
(b) preparation of detailed engineering and tender documents for the
36 km of roads to be rehabilitated under the project;
(c) preparation of detailed engineering and tender documents for the
Hatton Garden-Layou-Roseau road (53 km);
(d) supervision of works under (b) and (c) above;
(e) preparation of detailed engineering for the 35 km of roads to be
carried out in 1985, subject to confirmation of economic justifi-
cation;
(f) assistance to MCWT in planning and implementation of intensive
pavement patching and drainage restoration of main roads;
(g) assistance to MCWT in the preparation and implementation of a
four-year road maintenance program;
(h) preparation of specifications and bidding documents for
procurement of equipment;
(i) design and implementation of a cost accounting system to (i)
verify statements of expenditures by MCWT force account for
intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration; and (ii)
monitor maintenance expenditures and provide a basis for
estimation of budgetary requirements; and
(j) training for MCWT field staff, and any interested individuals in
the private sector, in routine and periodic maintenance
activities.
4.07      A total of 160 man-months of technical assistance would be
required, of which 110 man-months would be provided for expatriate staff.
The consultants would provide five experts for periods of time ranging from
eight to 34 months, a highway engineer (team leader), pavement engineer,
maintenance engineer, maintenance superintendent, and cost accountant/
systems analyst, in addition to about 50 man-months of support staff such
as draftsmen and surveyors. The terms of reference for the consulting
services have been agreed, and consultants are expected to be selected (on
the basis of proposals received from an agreed short list) and mobilized by
April 1982.  The terms of reference for these services specify that the
deployment of the various experts would be planned in line with the
progress of the Program and with the appointment of counterpart staff. The
technical assistance would have the dual function of engineering and super-
vision (30% of expatriate man-months and 100% of support staff man-months)
and management and training (70% of expatriate man-months).



- 15 -
4.08      An important element of this technical assistance would be the
training of MCWT's supervisory and maintenance personnel, as well as
interested individuals in private industry, in order to ensure that MCWT is
adequately prepared to plan and direct its road maintenance and improvement
works when the technical assistance program is completed. Specific areas
for intensive training would include pavement patching, graveling and
grading of unpaved roads, priming and surface dressing of paved roads,
installation of culverts, construction of concrete headwalls and small
structures, measurement of work quantities, maintenance of cost records,
and the scheduling and supervision of maintenance and improvement works.
It is envisaged that, in addition to "on-the-job" training in all aspects
of road rehabilitation and maintenance works, seminars and formal training
courses would be conducted in selected fields, employing audio-visual aids
and instruction materials. The consultants would also assemble and adapt
procedural manuals in the various disciplines which would allow for
continuity of the training activities by MCWT's own staff.
(v) Accounting and Auditing
4.09      MCWT does have an accounting and internal control system in
place. Hiowever, the actual recording of expenditures is reported to be
deficient, mainly because of the lack of trained staff. Further, the
Ministry does not record force account expenditures in sufficient detail to
be used as a basis for Statements of Expenditures which, in the case of the
intensive patching and drainage restoration program, would be used to claim
disbursements. For this reason, the project provides, under the technical
assistance component, for the services of an accountant who would be
charged with setting up an adequate cost accounting system which would,
inter alia, monitor project accounts and which would be used to certify
statements of expenditures. Annual audits are made by the Director of
Audits. His office, however, lacks sufficiently trained and experienced
staff to ensure timely preparation of audits. The audit for FY 1978/79
was, for example, completed in September 1981. The Director's office is
receiving technical assistance from IMF to improve its auditing and moni-
toring capability. Under the project, annual external audits of project
accounts and the Equipment Hire Fund accounts would be made by a private
auditing firm, acceptable to IDA. The cost of these services would be
financed under the project. These auditing arrangements were confirmed at
negotiations (Annex 2).
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing
4.10      The proposed project is estimated to cost about US$7.2 million
based on November 1981 prices and including appropriate contingency
allowances as shown in the table on the following page.  The proposed IDA
credit of US$5 million equivalent would finance 69% of total project costs
and represents 92% of foreign costs. The OPEC Fund is expected to provide
a loan of US$2 million to finance, jointly with IDA, the total cost of the
road rehabilitation component of the project. For this component, IDA
would finance 53%, and the OPEC Fund 47%, of the local and foreign costs.
IDA would also finance the full cost of technical assistance and equipment,
as well as the total cost, exclusive of MCWT labor, of the intensive
pavement patching and drainage restoration component. The Government's
contribution, equivalent to 3% of total project costs, would be utilized
toward the cost of labor for the intensive pavement patching and drainage
restoration component.



- 16 -
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(million US$)
IDA
Participation
Local  Foreign   (%)    Total   Amount    (M)
A.  Road Rehabilitation
1)  Roseau-Loubiere-Pointe Michel (4 km)    0.14    0.42    (75)    0.56                    (53)
2)  Loubiere-Grand Bay (13 km)                  0.45    1.35    (75)    1.80                (53)
3)  Bois Diable-La Plaine (19 km)               0.19    0.59    (75)    0.78                (53)
Sub-Total A                         0.78    2.36    (75)    3.14    1.66    (53)
B.  Road and Equipment Maintenance
1) Patching and Drainage Restoration
(a) Labor (MCWT current budget)            0.20    0.00              0.20              (0)
(b) Supplies, parts, equipment             0.00    0.47   (100)    0.47                (100)
2)  Equipment                                   0.00    0.46   (100)    0.46                (100)
Sub-Total B                         0.20    0.93    (82)    1.13    0.93         (82)
C. Technical Assistance
1)  Program Management Unit
(Engineering and Supervision 30%;
Management and Training 70%)            0.18    1.02    (85)    1.20                (100)
2)  External Audit                              0.02    0.08    (80)    0.10                (100)
Sub-Total C                         0.20    1.10    (85)    1.30    1.30    (100)
TOTAL BASE COSTS 1/                        1.18    4.39    (79)    5.57
D. Contingencies
1)  Physical 2/                                 0.12    0.35              0.47    0.25
2)  Price 3/                                    0.44    0.72              1.16    0.86
TOTAL - PROJECT COST                       1.74    5.46    (76)    7.20    5.00    (69)
1/ November 1981 prices
2/ Physical Contingencies: 15% of A.
3/ Price Contingencies:
Local    - 15% p.a.
Foreign - 8.5% in 1982
7.5% p.a. 1983-1985



- 17 -
4.11      The OPEC Fund loan is expected to be approved shortly.  However,
since it has not yet been formally approved, an agreed financing plan for
the road rehabilitation component of the project would be a condition for
disbursement for that part of the project.  In the unlikely event that the
OPEC Fund loan is not confirmed, the Association and the Government would
enter into discussions in order to reduce, if necessary, the road
rehabilitation works envisaged under the project. Since each road section
included in the project for rehabilitation has been separately justified,
and since the benefits accruing to each section do not depend upon the
execution of the works on other sections, any such reduced project would
also be economically justified.
4.12      Cost estimates for the road rehabilitation works are based on
preliminary engineering including an inventory of the project roads and
preparation of spot pavement design, and, based on deficiencies identified,
an estimate of quantities of works for essential road widening, pavement
and bridge, culvert and drainage restoration prepared by an IDA consul-
tant. Since the works entail a minimum of geometric redesigning, and given
the need for the intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration
program to be well advanced prior to the onset of the hurricane season
(July to October), and in order to avoid delays, the project would be
presented to the Board on the basis of preliminary engineering.
Contracting of consultants for detailed engineering of project roads and
bridges would be conducted in parallel with the processing of the IDA
credit. The final quantities on the average are not expected to exceed the
preliminary engineering estimates by more than 15%. Cost estimates take
into account recent costs in Dominica on similar works carried out on a
significantly smaller scale than that envisaged under the project.
Estimates for intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration were
also prepared by the consultant based on a review of road conditions and on
recent costs of similar work by MCWT force account. The cost of
maintenance equipment is based upon MCWT and Bank/IDA experience with
similar purchases in the region. Technical assistance costs are estimated
on the basis of an average rate of US$8,500 equivalent per man-month
(including transportation and subsistence) for expatriate staff.
Individual rates range from US$11,000 for a senior highway engineer to
US$7,000 for a cost accountant. Local consultant costs are estimated at
US$2,000 equivalent, which is in line with current costs in Dominica for
similar services.
4.13      The foreign exchange components of the rehabilitation and inten-
sive pavement patching and the drainage restoration program have been
estimated from unit price analyses at 75% and 70% of total costs, respec-
tively. For maintenance equipment, the foreign exchange component would be
100% of the c.i.f. price since all items would be obtained directly from
foreign sources. The foreign exchange component for the technical assis-
tance is estimated at 85% and that of the external audit at 80%. These
estimates assume that support personnel would be obtained in Dominica.
4.14      Disbursements from the credit would be made as follows:
(a) 53% of total expenditures for road rehabilitation;
(b) 100% of total out-of-pocket expenditures (excluding MCWT
current labor costs) for pavement patching and drainage
restoration;



- 18 -
(c)  100% of total expenditures for equipment and spare parts; and
(d)  100% of total expenditures for technical assistance and
annualaudit costs by consultants.
4.15      Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for
all items except intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration. In
the latter case, it is envisaged that works would be carried out by force
account, and disbursement would be against statement of expenditures,
detailing costs of materials, supplies and equipment but excluding any
labor costs being borne by MCWT out of its current budget. Supporting
documentation for such statement of expenditures would not be sent to IDA,
but would be retained by MCWT and made available for review during project
supervision missions.  These statements of expenditures would be subject to
a specific audit (para 4.09). The schedule of disbursements is shown in
Table 4.2. The credit would be fully disbursed by the end of 1986. The
closing date would be December 31, 1986. As compared with experience in
projects elsewhere in the Region, this schedule is considered reasonable
given the relatively simple nature and small size of the civil works and
equipment procurement contemplated. Further, about 40% of man-months under
the technical assistance component would be provided in the first year of
project implementation. Selection of a consulting firm is well under way,
and there is no reason to assume that this component's execution would
slip. Delays in execution of road rehabilitation were considered in pre-
parinug the schedule of disbursements.
4.16      Retroactive financing of up to US$150,000 would be provided for
expenditures made for intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration
carried out after March 1, 1982 and up to US$250,000 for consultancy serv-
ices contracted after March 1, 1982.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
4.17      MCWT would be responsible for project execution.  To ensure
proper management and control of the project, MCWT confirmed at negotia-
tions the assignment of a senior engineer (half-time) and5 full-time, one
highway maintenance engineer, one highway maintenance superintendent and an
accountant, acceptable to the Association, who will serve in the Program
Management Unit as key counterparts to the technical assistance consul-
tants' staff. Establishment of the Program Management Unit, appointment of
at least three of the four counterpart staff and the signing of the con-
tract for technical assistance consultant services would be conditions for
effectiveness.
4.18      The implementation period for the project would be about four
years (1982 through 1985).  Chart 2 presents an implementation schedule for
all project elements which would be reviewed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations.
4.19      The rehabilitation works, totaling US$4.3 million including con-
tingencies, would be carried out by contract after international competi-
tive bidding after prequalification in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980).



- 19 -
4.20      Because the type and quantities of work involved are scattered
and cannot be estimated to the required accuracy, the intensive pavement
patching and drainage restoration program is considered unsuited for
execution by contract.  Therefore, this work would be carried out by force
account by MCWT, utilizing local petty contracts and local labor wherever
possible. The work should be within the capability of MCWT field units;
quality and quantity control and supervision would be provided by the
Program Management Unit's technical assistance consultant.
4.21      The procurement program for equipment would be subject to prior
approval of the Association.  Contracts for equipment would be awarded on
the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (July 1980), with the exception of
contracts for miscellaneous items of equipment or spare parts, not
exceeding US$20,000 and up to an aggregate of US$100,000, which would be
awarded on the basis of competing quotations solicited locally, or, in the
case of spare parts for existing equipment, through direct negotiations
with suppliers.
4.22      Plans, specifications and bidding documents for rehabilitation
works, equipment and workshop improvements would be subject to prior review
and approval by the Association. All procurement procedures and schedules
were reviewed and agreed during negotiations. Selection of consultants
would be made in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the Bank's Guidelines for Use of
Consultants (August 1981).
4.23      Principal indicators by which the project would be monitored are:
(a) execution of the project as compared with the implementation
schedule (Chart 2);
(b) budgeting of adequate funds for road maintenance and prompt
release of those budgeted funds (para 3.05).
(c) availability of road maintenance equipment; and
(d) utilization of road maintenance equipment.
At negotiations, the Government agreed to furnish to the Association by
December 31, 1982, for its review and comment, an analysis of MCWT's road
maintenance equipment availability and utilization, together with annual
targets for these indices, taking into account expected improvements in
equipment maintenance and utilization practices. The Ministry would be
assisted by the technical assistance consultants under the project in the
preparation of these indicators. The remaining project indicators and the
reporting requirements to assure timely collection of needed data were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
4.24      CDB would be involved in the Program concurrently with IDA.  In
order to enhance CDB's experience in the technical and institutional
aspects of road maintenance programs, arrangements would be made to mount
IDA/CDB joint supervision missions.



- 20 -
E.   Project Risks
4.25       In the absence of recent experience with major civil works in
Dominica, estimates of road rehabilitation costs are difficult. For the
proposed project, estimates have been made using unit prices experienced on
small road works recently carried out. These unit costs are on the
relatively high side because of lack of interest and, therefore, poor
competition, among contractors bidding on these small jobs. While noting
the risk of an underestimate of the costs for rehabilitation works, it is
expected that, as part of a larger Program, the project is likely to
attract interest from international contractors, and the cost estimates are
likely to be valid. Another risk is the shortage of technical staff in
MCWT to carry out the Program. The problem has been addressed through the
provision of technical assistance under the project to assist MCWT in its
task of coordinating the Program's execution. With regard to ensuring that
training of maintenance technical personnel is effective, it is the
Government's intention to involve interested private individuals in the
training program to the extent possible to build up a pool of expertise on
the island, in both the private and public sector, which can carry out
maintenance works efficiently after the technical assistance is completed.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The major components of the Program and the project have been
subjected to a separate economic analysis. These are the road rehabilita-
tion projects, feeder road rehabilitation and reconstruction, the recon-
struction of the Roseau East Bridge, and the intensive pavement patching
and drainage restoration program. The Program as a whole, with an
estimated rate of return of 23%, is well justified. The project is also
justified, with an expected economic rate of return of 23%.
B.   Road Rehabilitation Component
5.02      This component calls for the rehabilitation of 227 km of road,
including 13 bridges. The economic evaluation of the rehabilitation works
which are included in the Program is based on the assumption that, if the
works are implemented, the roads would receive appropriate periodic mainte-
nance which would restore them to high levels of serviceability.  In
contrast, in the "without" project scenario, the roads would receive only
routine maintenance at current low levels.
5.03      Costs taken into account are the economic costs of the invest-
ment, including engineering and supervision and the differential mainte-
nance costs. For the rehabilitation component, as well as for the compo-
nents discussed in paragraphs 5.09-5.12, the economic cost of unskilled
labor was evaluated at 50% of wage cost.



- 21 -
5.04      Quantifiable benefits to be derived from the rehabilitation works
are:
(a) vehicle operating cost savings through improvement of
road conditions; and
(b) reduction in damage to banana crops.
5.05      Vehicle operating costs were developed at appraisal for typical
vehicle types in Dominica and were adjusted for different surface condi-
tions and vehicular speeds. For example, vehicle operating costs on a road
with a badly deteriorated pavement, and with speeds of 30 km per hour, are
about 1.8 times greater than those on a rehabilitated road with a good
riding surface with vehicular speeds of 55 km per hour, which is reasonable
(Table 5.1).  On average, 15% of these savings are due to reduced fuel con-
sumption. For each road section, the difference in vehicle operating costs
with and without the project was adjusted over time to take into account
future deterioration over the life of the project. Vehicle operating cost
savings were then applied to projected traffic levels. For generated
traffic, only half of the savings in vehicle operating costs was consid-
ered.
5.06      Lack of adequate historical traffic data makes forecasting
traffic on Dominica's roads difficult. For this exercise, it was conserv-
atively assumed that traffic would increase along the lines of the proj-
ected GDP growth. Average traffic growth rates assumed for the rehabilita-
tion projects ranged from, on the heavily trafficked west coast system, 5%
p.a. until 1986, dropping to 3% p.a. thereafter, to an average of 4% p.a.
on the roads serving agricultural areas until 1986, dropping to 3.0% there-
after. On these latter roads, which are the most severely deteriorated, it
was assumed that 50% of the traffic growth would be normal traffic and the
balance generated traffic.
5.07      Estimates of spoilage to bananas due, inter alia, to poor road
conditions in Dominica, range from 10% to 30% of all production.  In this
analysis, it is assumed that damage due to the poor condition of the main
road system is 10% of exported production. This benefit is included only
for two roads in the Program which serve about 75% of banana transport:
Hatton Garden-Portsmouth, which carries 60% of the banana exports, and the
Bois Diable-La Plaine, which carries 16% of banana exports. On thus latter
road, however, only those benefits to production originating in the area of
influence of the Bois Diable-La Plaine road were considered. It was
assumed that current agricultural production levels would gradually rise
over a six-year period to pre-hurricane levels because of increased levels
of agricultural investment.
5.08      The analysis indicates that seven of the ten road rehabilitation
sections in the Program, including the three project roads, are economic-
ally justified with rates of return ranging from 12% to 30% (Table 5.2).
Three of the road sections (La Plaine-Delice, Grand Bay-Petite Savanne, and



- 22 -
Pointe Michel-Scott's Head), totaling 35 km, have low traffic levels and
could not be justified on these types of benefits alone. They are,
however, roads which are potentially important agricultural collectors, and
all are in areas for which integrated rural development plans and projects
are being prepared. These road projects have been tentatively included in
the Program, pending confirmation of their economic justification, which
the Government agreed at negotiations to send to IDA for review and comment
by June 30, 1983.
C.   Feeder Road Construction and Improvements
5.09      The economic justification of the construction and improvement
of 35 km of feeder roads was evaluated by CDB as part of its project
appraisal. This component is estimated by CDB to have an economic return
of 30% . Benefits quantified are increased agricultural production on the
feeder roads' areas of influence.
D.   Reconstruction of the Roseau East Bridge
5.10      Of the 14 bridges included in the Program, the reconstruction
of the Roseau East Bridge was the only one analyzed separately. The
economic return of this component was estimated by CDB, as part of its
project appraisal, at 34%. Benefits included were vehicle operating cost
savings from avoidance of increased mileage due to traffic diversion
without the project, and avoidance of reduction in agricultural production.
E.   Road Maintenance Program
5.11      The quantifiable benefits of the intensive pavement patching
and drainage restoration program, which is part of the road maintenance
component of the Program, are savings in vehicle operating costs due to the
works. Despite the fact that reduced requirements for emergency mainte-
nance due to drainage improvements were not quantified, this component of
the Program has an economic return of over 50%, which is in line with
economic returns for deferred maintenance in other developing countries.
5.12      The road maintenance component of the Program also consists of
investment in replacement equipment, spare parts for rehabilitation of
existing equipment, and improvements in equipment workshops and stores. It
also provides for technical assistance to help MCWT in carrying out road
maintenance effectively. These investments have not been analyzed sepa-
rately. Instead, they have been evaluated implicitly as part of the incre-
mental cost of maintaining the roads scheduled for rehabilitation in the
"with" project case (para 5.02).



- 23 -
F.   Summary Economic Evaluation of Project Components
5.13       The economic returns to those project components which were
evaluated as part of the overall program are as follows:
Sensitivity Analysis
(a)          (b)
Increase    Decrease
Economic         ADT   Investment  Benefits
Cost   ERR (1981) Costs by 15%   by 15%
*                                     (7US$ million)(%)  (vpd)       (%)           (%)
Rehabilitation:
Roseau-Loubiere-
Pointe Michel                0.58       30  1,700        26           25
Loubiere-Grand Bay             1.86        16    350        13          12
Bois Diable-La Plaine          0.81        15    100        12          11
Intensive Pavement Patching
and Drainage Restoration  0.60          50%+   -         50%          50%
Total                          23               21           20
The project has an overall return of 23%. A sensitivity analysis for these
components shows that, with increased investment cost (+15%) or reduced
benefits (-15%), the rate of return of the project as a whole would be 21%
and 20% respectively, and none of the items evaluated would have a rate of
return below 11%.
G.   Distribution of Benefits
5.14       It is expected that the benefits of the Program and the project
would accrue mainly to rural dwellers, particularly farmers, who would
benefit from the significantly reduced cost of transporting agricultural
products to market and to the ports for export and of bringing in agricul-
tural inputs and supplies. The resulting improved profitability of
agricultural activities is expected to stimulate agricultural production,
creating new employment opportunities and leading to increased exports.
There would also be a significant institution-building impact from the
technical assistance component of the Program.
5.15       The Program would have a direct effect on employment.  It is
expected that the Program would generate about 1,200 jobs annually over the
Program period, of which the project would account for about 180 jobs
annually. This would double employment in construction and is significant
considering that the unemployment rate in Dominica is estimated to be over
20%. Because of the labor-intensive nature of the low standard road and
bridge rehabilitation works, and of the maintenance works such as drainage
restoration, envisaged under the Program, a high proportion of these jobs
would be available for unskilled labor. The semi-skilled labor required
for some works, such as pavement work, would benefit from training under
the technical assistance component of the Project.



- 24 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a)  confirmation of annual recurrent maintenance requirements for
FY 1982/83 through FY 1985/86 and that these funds would be
approved and released in a timely manner (para 2417);
(b)  that detailed estimates of the maintenance budget, breaking
down expenditures into major activity categories, and into
labor, materials and equipment, would be prepared for FY 1983/84
and sent to the Association for review and comment by February
1983 and annually thereafter prior to submission of the budget,
to parliament (para 2.17);
(c)  that the Equipment Hire Fund charges would be revised annually,
and that charges would be set to ensure recovery of the costs of
owning, maintaining and operating the equipment (para 2.18);
(d)  the establishment, by September 30, 1982, and functions of a
Steering Committee to be made up of MCWT and representatives of
agencies contributing to the Program (para 3.02);
(e)  that the Government and the Association would have annual consul-
tations regarding the Program's composition and timing and
financing plan, and that the elements in the Program be given
priority over other capital investments for roads (para 3.05);
(f)  that the Program's progress and financing plan would be
reviewed annually by the Steering Committee (para 3.05);
(g)  that contracts for rehabilitation works under the project would
not be signed until at least 70% of the intensive pavement
patching and drainage restoration works on the roads in question
have been completed (para 4.04);
(h)  details of the maintenance equipment procurement program
(para 4.05);
(i)  that a Program Management Unit would be established and that
technical assistance consultants, acceptable to IDA, would be
retained to staff the Unit (para 4.06);
(j)  that annual external audits of project accounts and MCWT
Equipment Hire Fund accounts would be made (para 4.09);
(k)  the assignment of a senior engineer (half-time) and, full-time,
one highway maintenance engineer, one highway maintenance
superintendent, and an accountant as counterparts to the
consultants under the technical assistance component (para 4.17);



- 25 -
(1) implementation schedule for all project elements (para 4.18);
(m) procedures and schedules for procurement (paras 4.19-4.22);
(n) scope and purpose of reporting and monitoring requirements
(para 4.23); and
(o)  that the Government would prepare, and send to the Association
for review and comment, economic evaluations of the La
Plaine-Delice, Grand Bay-Petite Savanne, and Pointe
*                     Michel-Scott's Head roads by June 31, 1983 (para 5.08).
6.02      Establishment of the Program Management Unit, signing of the
contract for technical assistance consultant services and appointment of
three MCWT counterpart staff would be conditions for credit effectiveness
(para 4.17).
6.03      Agreement between the Government and the Association on a
financing plan for the road rehabilitation component of the project would
be a condition for disbursement for that component (para 4.11).
6.04      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of US$5 million; standard IDA conditions are appropriate.
March 4, 1982



- 26 -
DOMINICA                                   TABLE 2.1
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Road User Contributions
1976/77 - 1980/81
(million EC$)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81
A. Expenditures on Roads
Capital                                      1.72        0.39       0.11       1.76      n.a.
Recurrent                                     1.17       1.08       1.60      4.44       3.0
Total                             2.89        1.47      1.71       6.20      n.a.
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions 2/
Import Duty and Tax on:
Fuel                                      0.91        0.95       1.02      0.75       1.72
Tires and Spare Parts                     0.24        0.36       0.36      0.19       0.56
Motor Vehicles                            0.22        0.42       0.74      0.52       1.83
Vehicle Registration and License          0.23        0.21       0.36      0.56       0.60 3/
Total                             1.60       1.94       2.48       2.02      4.71
1/   Provisional
2/   Calendar year
3/   Estimate
Source:   Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism
January 1982



- 27 -
DOMINICA                                                          TABLE 3.1
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program, 1982-1985
Financing    LengoEstimated                         Implementation Schedule
Financing Length         Cost    1/
Source       (km)      (USS million)            1982    1983    1984    1985
ROAD AND BRIDGE REUABILITATION                                                          Base 1/  Financial2
l1 Portsmouth-Hatton Garden                                    CIDA          38             6.2       7.0      0000
2.  Portsmouth-Layou; Castle Bruce-Hatton Garden               EDF           50             1.8       2.0      0000
3.  Pont Casse-Castle Bruce                                    EDF           14                                0000
4.  Roseau-Layou-P. Casse-H. Garden                            USAID 3/      53             6.5       8.5        00   00
5.  Roseau-Loubiere-Pt. Michel                                 IDA/OPEC       4             0.6       0.7      0000
6.  Loubiere-Grand Bay                                         IDA/OPEC      13             2.1       2.4      0000
7.  Bois Diable-Rosalie-La Plaine                              IDA/OPEC      19             0.9       1.1              0000
8.  La Plaine-Delice 4/                                                      13             0.9       1.0                       o000
9.  Pt. Michel-Scott's Head  4/                                              11             0.8       1.0                      0000
10. Grand Bay-Petit Savanne  4/                                              11             1.0       1.1                      0ooo
11. Roseau East Bridge                                         CDB           -              1.0       1.3
12. Feeder Road Program                                        CDB           43             1.4       1.7
Sub-Total                                                  269            23.2      27.9
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1.  Program Management Unit/Technical Assistance               IDA           -              1.4       1.8      0     _                  _
2.  Administration                                             GOVT          -              0.4      0.6
3.  Intensive Patching/Drainage Restoration                 IDA/GOVT        320             0.7      0.8
4.  Recurrent Maintenance                                      GOVT          -             3.4        4.2      _           _ __
5.  Equipment and Workshop Improvements                        IDA/OPEC/BDD -              0.6       0.7
Sub-Total                                                   -              6.5       8.1
Total Program Costs                                                                   29.7      36.0
Key:  a * e   a s   Consultant selection/mobilization;
Engineering, tendering, contract award
Execution of Works
1/  November 1981 prices, including physical contingencies.
2/  Including price contingencies.
Ti  Government ia having discussions with USAID regarding financing of rehabilitation of this section.
4/ Pending confirmation of economic justification.
5/  About US$0.4 million of Technical Assistance to finance engineering and supervision of road rehabilitation,
and US$0.1 million for annual audit and BDD contfibution of 54 man-months of technical assistance (US$0.1 million).
Source:  MCWT and IDA Appraisal Mission
February 1982



- 28 -
TABLE 4.1
DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
List and Cost of Maintenance Equipment
(US$ at November 1981 prices)
Number of       Cost per        Total
Item                      Units             Unit         Cost
Small Asphalt Mix Plant
for Patching                       1             30,000          30,000
Tipper Trucks (5 c0y.)                8             30,000         240,000
Light Vehicles                        5              8,000          40,000
Concrete Mixers                       3              2,000           6,000
Pedestrian Rollers                    5              2,000          10,000
Miscellaneous (tools, pumps, etc.)   -                 -            10,000
Sub-Total                  22                           336,000
Spares (about 20% of equipment
costs)                             _                             67,000
Sub-Total                                                  403,000
Spare parts for correction and
preventive   maintenance of
existing equipment                                               57,000
TOTAL                                                      460,000
Source: MCWT and Mission Estimates
Februarv 1982



- 29 -
DOMINICA                                   TABLE 4.2
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Cumulative as      Latin American
End of                                                      as % of        Highway Projects
IDA Fiscal Year          Annual         Cumulative             Total           % of Total
1983                  0.8              0.8                  16                 10
1984                  1.2              2.0                  40                 28
1985                  1.6              3.6                  72                 51
1986                  0.9              4.5                  90                 71
1987                  0.5              5.0                100                  86
Assumptions Concerning Implementation Delays
1)   Start of civil works delayed 6 months.
2)   Duration of civil works overrun by 75%.
3)   Disbursements would lag expenditures by 6 months.
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Source:   Mission estimates
February 1982



- 30 -                     TABLE 5.1
DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Representative Vehicle Operating Costs
(EC cents per vehicle/km at Nov.1981 prices)
Road
Type       Ii/           IL2/             II3/
Vehicle Type
Car                           34            44               61
Minibus                       46             60              94
Truck                        111           142              233
1/ A well maintained, flat road with pavement surface in good condition
and average speeds 55 kph.
2/ A flat road with pavement surface in fair to poor condition and ave-
rage speeds 40 kph.
3/ A flat road with badly deteriorated pavement requiring frequent changes
in speeds. Average speed 30 kph.
Source: Mission estimates
January 1982



- 31 -                     TABLE 5.2
DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Details of Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program Economic Analysis
Average Vehicle Speeds
Economic                         First Year      Kilometers
Rate          Without            with            to be
Project Component                of Return   ADT  Rehabilitation Rehabilitation Rehabilitated
(%)     (vpd)      (kph)           (kph)
A. Road Rehabilitation
1. Portsmouth-Hatton Garden          18       250         20              45             38
2. Portsmouth-Layou- Castle Bruce
Hatton GardenLP                 20    500;100       40              45              50
3. Pont Casse-Castle Bruce           12       160        35               50             14
4. Roseau-Layou-Hatton Garden        27       800         35              50             53
5. Roseau-Loubiere-Pt. Michele       30      1700        45               55              4
6. Loubiere-Grand Bay                16       350        25               40             13
7. Bois Diable-Rosalie-La Plaine   15        100         25              40              19
8. La Plaine-Delice                   2/   e  30          -                -             13
9. Pt. Michele-Scott's Head           7/   , 100          -                -             11
10. Grand Bay-P. Savanne               2/   t  30           -               -             11
B. Roseau East Bridge                34        -                           -              -
C. Feeder Road Program               30              -                     -             43
D. Intensive Pavement Patching
and Drainage Restoration         50+            -                     -            320
1/ Work consists of laying second surface dressing seal coat.
2/ Inclusion in Program tentative pending confirmation studies with economic justification
to be prepared by Government.
Source: MCWT and IDA Appraisal mission
February 1982



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
DOMINICA
ROAD/MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
DOMINICA EMERGENCY ROAD PROGRAM
Summary Statement 1/
Meetings of November 2/3, 1981, CDB Headquarters, Barbados
1.   BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
Extreme weather conditions, including the devastating effects of
hurricanes in 1979 and 1980, coupled with the effects of inadequate
pavement design, drainage and poor maintenance, have contributed to the
severe deterioration of Dominica's road network. A major effort toward
road rehabilitation and the establishment of a comprehensive road mainte-
nance program are urgently required to restore the network and to ensure
adequate maintenance in the future. To this end, the Government of
Dominica has requested financing from a number of sources, several of which
have demonstrated interest in participating in a program designed to
address these problems.  In addition, the Government has requested IDA
assistance in obtaining financing from other external sources for the
uncommitted subprojects in such a program. This program was discussed in
meetings attended by representatives of UNDP, CIDA, EDF, USAID, CDB, IDA,
and the Government on November 2 and 3, 1981 in Barbados. Generally, the
meeting's participants were in agreement with the following principles:
(a)  Contributions should be made within the context of a coherent
program, made up of high priority elements, which would provide
for the buildup of road and equipment maintenance capability, and
for the rehabilitation of roads and bridges (Section II).
(b)  The Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism (MCWT) is the
Executing Agency, responsible for coordination of the Program. A
Project Unit, with proposed IDA financing would, inter alia,
assist MCWT in this coordination, and act in an advisory capacity
to the Ministry (Section III).
(c)  Capital costs for the Program should be fully financed from
external sources, with the Government applying its contribution
to recurrent maintenance activities. If necessary, IDA would use
its offices to help the Government secure local counterpart
financing from other external sources.
(d)  It is the Government's preference that rehabilitation works be
undertaken by contract in order to free MCWT's resources for
maintenance.
1/   Facsimile of documents prepared November 3, 1981; retyped January
1982.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) With regard to engineering standards, care should be taken in
developing technical solutions which emphasize pavement strength-
ening and drainage improvements, and minimize geometrical
improvements and widening of the existing roadway. These solu-
tions should take due account of the safety of road users and the
limited recurrent maintenance resources available.
2.   DEFINITION OF A PHASE I PROGRAM 1982-1985
A tentative Phase I Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
for 1982-1985 has been identified by the IDA appraisal team based on the
Government's list of priority roads.  It is subject to modifications after
further discussions to be held between the Government and IDA and reflects
"best estimates" of timing on the part of CIDA and EDF.
3.   ROLE OF THE PROJECT UNIT
A Project Unit, staffed by consultants selected by MCWT and by
MCWT counterpart staff, would:
(a) Prepare detailed engineering and tender documents for road
sections to be rehabilitated under the IDA subproject. It may
prepare engineering for other road sections which could be
financed by any contributor;
(b) Supervise works on IDA-financed road sections;
(c) Prepare and implement a four-year maintenance program which would
provide for a systematic approach to the planning, programing and
execution of equipment and road maintenance, and strengthen
MCWT's capacity to continue providing adequate maintenance after
the completion of technical assistance. The Unit would
collaborate with the Advisors being financed by the British
Development Division (e.g., mechanical engineer, mechanical
superintendent, stores advisor);
(d) Assist MCWT in developing road and bridge classification and
standards;
(e) Act as advisor to MCWT, which would coordinate the activities of
other contributing agencies participating in the Phase I Program,
providing liaison with the supervisory consultants for the
various road rehabilitation subprojects. Areas for coordination
include:
(i) sources, quantities and supply of quarry materials;
(ii) supply, storage and port access for other materials;
(iii) local equipment and haulage availability;



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
(iv) local labor force availability;
(v) road signs and markings;
(vi) facilitation of permits, licenses, importation, taxation;
(vii) receipt and analysis of Monthly Progress Reports for each
subproject.
D.   STEERING COMMITTEE
The idea of establishing a Steering Committee was discussed. The
purpose of the Committee would be to provide a forum for the discussion of
progress of the works, problems and their resolutions. The Committee would
be made up of representatives of MCWT, contributing agencies and the
Project Unit. The Committee would meet at regular intervals (say, every
six months).
E.   OTHER ISSUES
It was agreed that special attention should be given to the
follow:Lng problem areas:
(a) Finding a solution to the provision of local quarry materials and
equipment (e.g., crusher, asphaltic material mixing and laying,
haulage) in the most efficient manner in order to minimize all
project costs and reduce costly overlapping;
(b) Timing of project works, where feasible, so that contractors
already on the ground could tender for works to be financed with
untied funds, thus encouraging as wide a response as possible
toward the objective of minimizing overall costs;
(c) Determining the scope for developing the local contracting
industry during the course of the Phase I Program;
(d) Reconciling pavement width and sight distances with acceptable
safety standards for traffic and pedestrians; where technically
and economically feasible pavement widths would be increased - to
a maximum of 18 ft - bearing in mind the principles stated in
Section I(e).
(e) Developing training courses for MCWT staff and the local
contracting industry.



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
Representatives of Funding/Donor Agencies Attending Meeting of
November 2/3, 1981
J. Sonderberg                   Technical Advisor, E.E.C.
J. Free                         CIDA
D. Steinberg                    CIDA
Z. Lakew                        UNDP
A. Sundermann                   (Engineer) USAID
W.B. Wheeler                    USAID
Peter P.W. Morris               World Bank
Katherine Sierra                World Bank
Dawn Elvis                      World Bank
M.C. Doctrove                   Dominica
Cary Harris                     Dominica
Vernon Martin                   Dominica
Anthony Alleyne                 CDB
E. Valmonte                     CDB
W. Lawrence                     CDB
M. St. Rose                     CDB



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Scope of Work for Annual Audit of Project Accounts
1.        The audit should be carried out in accordance with generally
accepted audit standards.
2.        The audit should cover project accounts and MCWT's Equipment Hire
Fund accounts. A specific audit of statement of expenditures used as a
basis for disbursement of works carried out by force account under the
project would be made.
3.        The audit should comment on the accounting principles adopted
in the keeping of project accounts and any changes incurred from one fiscal
year to the other.
4.        The audit program should include a review of systems of internal
controls and checks in order to determine the degree of reliance that can
be placed upon them, and the extent of testing that needs to be performed
by the auditor.
5.        The auditor should appraise the procedures for safeguarding
assets, ensuring their proper use and that all transactions are accounted
for accurately and properly.
6.        The auditor should satisfy himself regarding the fairness and
accuracy of the project accounts, including statements of expenditures and
Equipment Hire Fund accounts, by obtaining sufficient evidence through the
examination of accounting records and supporting corroborative material,
direct physical inspection, general observation, inquiries and confirma-
tions, and necessary tests.
7.        The auditor's report should consist of the auditor's opinion
on the annual project accounts and Equipment Hire Fund accounts, and of a
Management Letter addressing the adequacy of the accounting and internal
control systems and making relevant recommendations in that respect.
January [982



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1. Terms of Reference for consultants to provide technical assistance
to the MCWT.
2. Calculation of cost estimates; Preliminary Engineering Report for
Project Roads
3. Miscellaneous documents related to road and equipment maintenance
4. Miscellaneous papers and maps related to project impact and economic
evaluation
January 1982



DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism, Technical Branch
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
CHIEF TECHNICAL
OFFICER (C.T.O.)
ACTING DEPUTY
C.T.O.
^  3 B   |  SUPERINTENDENT j        LEGEn  4                                               ASSISTANT             FSPRNEDN  (4                  MECANCA
SUPERINTENDENT                                    DRAFTSMAN/ESTIMATOR                                   ROAD SPERVISORAI
|CONST'RUCTION       ||DATMN()                                           J                                  TIMEKEEPEIRS                              w
00
--T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
|     PORE:EA'        l           l   ~~~~SUPE  ISR      ll                   GPER                          OPTCE MANAGER
|(IIEAV'Y EQUIP E<                 |(LIGHT EQUIPMENT)                 |MACHIN  SHOPPJEITIY
SUPERVISOR (2)
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
MECHANICS



DOMINICA
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1 9 8 2                   1 9 8 3                  1 9 8 4            1985
I T E M      -        YEAR AND QUARTER      T-1 2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th   1st
A.  LOAN EFFECTIVENESS                                               V
B. REHABILITATION WORKS
1) Roseau-Loubiere-Pointe Michel
and Loubiere-Grand Bay
a)  Detailed Engineering                            l
b)  Tendering and Award                                              a  x
c)  Execution and Supervision                                                                      -
2) Bois Diable-La Plaine
a)  Detailed Engineering                                                                 x
b)  Tendering and Award                                                                    tax
c)  Execution and Supervision                                                                                                                I
C.  MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
1)  Intensive Pavement Patching                                 -      -
and Drainage Restoration
2) Equipment Procurement
a)  Preparation Tender Documents                                 x
b)  Tendering and Award                                            t  a   x
c)  Delivery
3) Workshop and Store Improvements
a)  Preparation and Clearing                                            x
b)  Tendering and Award                                                 t a
c)  Execution
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PROJECT UNIT                    ,a
(training periods shown by dots)                _                         0 =  *                                         a *
X  signifies scheduled review by Association;  t  signifies tendering period;  a  signifies award and contracting period.
Source: MCWT and Mission Estimates
February 1982






>0
NU



