Document of      
The World Bank                               7 - 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3237-DOM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 11, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:                                        East Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
Since its creation in 1965, the East Caribbean dollar was tied to sterling
at the rate of  1.00 = EC$4.8.  In July 1976 the link with sterling was
broken and the East Caribbean dollar was aligned with the US dollar at the
rate of US$1.00 = EC$2.70.
Since July 1976:
EC$1.00,  =   US$0.37
US$1.00    =   EC$2.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ADT      -       Average Daily Traffic
CDB      -      Caribbean Development Bank
CIDA     -       Canadian International Development Agency
EEC      -      European Economic Community
IDA      -      International Development Association
IMF      -       International Monetary Fund
MCWT     -      Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism
OPEC     -       Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
UK       -      United Kingdom
UNESCO   -      United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNIDO    -       United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID    -       United States Agency for International Development
vpd      -      vehicles per day
t



FOR OFFICIAL USE
DOMINICA
ROMA8 MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Commonwealth of Dominica
Beneficiary:    Ministry of Communications, Works and Tourism (MCWT)
Amount:         SDR 4.4 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:  a)  Objectives:   To contribute to the Government's Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program by providing for
rehabilitation of priority road sections, for strength-
ening MCWT's road maintenance organization and prac-
tices to meet recurrent requirements once the rehabili-
tation is completed, and for coordination and consis-
tency among the several contributors to the Program.
Major Components: The Project consists of (i) rehabi-
litation on 3 sections of road totalling 36 km; (ii) an
intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration
program over 320 km of main roads; (iii) procurement of
about 22 units of road maintenance equipment; (iv)
about 160 man-months of consultancy services to staff a
Program Management Unit and provide technical assis-
tance to MCWT for engineering and supervision of reha-
bilitation works, preparing and executing a four-year
road maintenance program, establishing an appropriate
cost accounting system, coordinating the works in the
road Program and training in road maintenance techni-
ques.
c)  Benefits:  Reduced costs of transportation; stimulus to
agricultural production, rural employment and exports;
institution building in road and equipment maintenance.
d)  Risks:   Risks arise from the shortage of qualified
technical staff in MCWT to plan and execute road main-
tenance works.  To reduce the risks the project makes
provision through its technical assistance component
for strengthening MCWT and for training.
This (locument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Cost:
US$ million
Local    Foreign  Total
A. Road Rehabilitation
1)  Roseau-Loubiere-Pt. Michel              0.14       0.42    0.56
2)  Loubiere-Grand Bay                      0.45       1.35    1.80
3)  Bois Diable-La Plaine                   0.19       0.59    0.78
Sub-Total                        0.78       2.36    3.14
B.  Road and Equipment Maintenance
1) Patching and Drainage
Restoration                          0.20       0.47    0.67
2)  Equipment                                  -       0.46    0.46
Sub-Total                        0.20       0.93    1.13
C.  Technical Assistance
1)  Program Management Unit                 0.18       1.02    1.20
2)  External Audit                          0.02       0.08    0.10
Sub-Total                        0.20       1.10    1.30
Total Base Costs                            1.18       4.39    5.57
D.  Contingencies
1)  Physical                                0.12      0.35    0.47
2)  Price                                   0.44       0.72    1.16
Total Project Cost                          1.74       5.46    7.20
Financing Plan:
US$Million               Percent of
Local    Foreign    Total             Total
IDA Credit                      0.85       4.15       5.00              69
OPEC Fund                       0.69       1.31       2.00              28
Government                      0.20         -        0.20               3
Total                      1.74      5.46       7.20             100
Estimated                                           US$ million
Disbursements:         IDA FY           1983    1984    1985    1986   1987
Annual           0.8      1.2     1.6      0.9    0.5
Cumulative       0.8      2.0     3.6      4.5    5.0
Rate of Return:           23%
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No. 3808a-DOM, dated March 4, 1982.
Map: IBRD 16154



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of SDR 4.4 million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to
the Commonwealth of Dominica to help finance road maintenance and rehabili-
tation. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. The project is expec-
ted to be cofinanced with a loan of US$2.0 million equivalent from the OPEC
Fund for International Development (OPEC Fund) for a period of 20 years,
including five years grace period, with a service charge of .75% and no
interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic report (Economic Memorandum on Dominica, Report No.
3368-DOM, dated May 18, 1981) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
June 8, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background and Economic Structure
3.        Dominica is a small volcanic island in the Caribbean sea.  It has
an area of 750 sq. km and a population of about 80,000. It gained indepen-
dence from the United Kingdom in November 1978 and became a member of the
Bank and IDA in June 1980.
4.         Dominica's volcanic origins provide a number of hot springs and
geysers together with some spectacular scenery, potentially attractive to
tourists. The island, however, has no white sand beaches, and the rugged
mountainous terrain and numerous swift non-navigable rivers present formi-
dable communications difficulties for the population.   Some parts of the
island's interior receive as much as 750 cm of annual rainfall. There are
neither metallic minerals nor hydrocarbons.   Though the rivers provide a
source of hydro-power and consequent low dependence on imported fuel, these
conditions on the whole define a narrow resource base.   A strong tradi-
tional export agriculture has developed, producing preponderantly bananas,
but also citrus and coconuts.
5.         The economy is heavily dependent on external resources.  During
the 1970s the external resource gap typically represented 20% of GDP. With
consumption expenditures averaging 97% of GDP, gross domestic investment,
equivalent to 24% of GDP, was almost entirely financed from external
savings.



6.          The country's small size, coupled with its particular physical
features renders costs of administration, infrastructural development and
provision of public services relatively burdensome on a per capita basis.
The tax base is small and the institutions are not yet experienced in the
excercise of strict fiscal discipline.   In spite of a satisfactory tax
effort (tax revenues averaging 20% of GDP), Dominica has depended on exter-
nal budgetary assistance (4%-8% of GDP) to cover the Central Government
current budgetary deficits.   Dominica's  obstacles to development  as an
independent nation thus are formidable.
Recent Economic Developments
7.          Increasing economic and social difficulties in the past decade
made the 1970s on the whole a period of decline in Dominica.   This was in
marked contrast to the average annual 3.5% growth experienced during the
1960s. The reversal was concentrated in the first half of the seventies
which witnessed the break up of the plantation system of agriculture as
well as civil unrest, changes linked largely to the economic and social
adjustments that accompanied the approach to independence.   All sectors
shared in a severe contraction.   The decline in agriculture was marked by
the steady fall in banana production which in 1975 was some 50% below the
level attained in 1968. The small manufacturing sector contracted as some
enterprises closed operations, and the previously expanding tourism sector
was adversely affected in part by world recession and in part by the civil
unrest. Some improvement in output took place in the three years prior to
independence in 1978, chiefly on the strength of gains in agricultural pro-
duction, but GDP in 1978 had not recovered to the 1972 level in real terms.
8.            The contraction of the seventies created high unemployment
(rising from 8% of the work force in 1970 to 18% in 1975) and steadily
deteriorating  public  finances.    Despite  budgetary  assistance  from the
United Kingdom, only minimal public services could be provided and expendi-
tures for items such as maintenance, especially of roads, were neglected.
The tight fiscal situation was exacerbated by large increases in the
Government's wage and salary bill, contracted in 1974, but not fully paid
until FY1977/78.
9.         This situation worsened dramatically as a result of a series of
adverse developments in 1979-80. Most obviously devastating was the wide-
spread damage to crops and infrastructure from successive hurricanes--
David, Frederick and Allen--within a twelve-month period.   Following the
worst hurricane, David, the banana crop was completely wiped out and other
export crops substantially destroyed, the electricity system sustained con-
siderable damage to power stations and to the transmission and distribution
systems, water supplies were disrupted, roads and sea defenses damaged, and
most houses in the affected areas lost their roofs. In addition, political
and administrative stability were damaged during this period by labor
unrest over civil service wages and salaries, which culminated in closure
of the port, replacement of the elected government with an interim
coalition, a leadership crisis lasting several months, and finally the
interim government's capitulation in a wage agreement granting civil ser-
vants an average 82% pay increase retroactive to January 1979.



- 3 -
10.        The impact of these developments on the public finances and the
balance of payments was crippling.   The loss of production and exports
severely eroded the revenue base and foreign exchange earnings.   At the
same time, Central Government spending requirements for relief and rehabi-
litation sharply increased and the new wage award created arrears due to
civil servants of about EC$11 million or 9% of 1979 GDP. In 1980, there-
fore, the public finances and the balance of payments were in severe dis-
equilibrium. The public sector registered a deficit on current account of
EC$18 million, equivalent to 12% of GDP, compared to EC$6 million (or 5% of
GDP) in 1978. The current account balance of payments deficit represented
50% of GDP in 1980, compared to 7% in 1978.   These large deficits were
manageable only because of the substantial inflows of external assistance
for relief and reconstruction.
11.        Dominica's economy is currently in a recovery phase from the low
levels of activity in the hurricane years. A strong resurgence of agricul-
tural output, particularly bananas, and a continued high level of construc-
tion activity in the wake of the hurricane destruction were the leading
contributors to an estimated 8% growth of the economy in 1981.  The asso-
ciated sharp improvement in exports contributed to a reduction in the
balance of payments deficit, which nevertheless remains high compared to
the pre-hurricane years.
12.       Consumer price changes, which tend to follow international trends
because of openness of the economy, registered a 14% increase in 1975, then
moderated to 8% in 1978, but surged to 20% and 30% in 1979 and 1980 partly
in consequence of the depreciation of the US dollar (to which the domestic
currency is linked) in relation to the pound sterling during 1979, but
mainly because of shortages related to the hurricances.   Consumer price
increases moderated in 1981 to about 14%.
Development Issues and Strategy
13.       Central to Dominica's development problem is the need to release
the productive potential of the economy so as to generate increased output
and exports while expanding the opportunities for employment. Agriculture
is performing far below its potential, and the opportunities in manufac-
turing and tourism are not fully exploited.   In agriculture, measures are
required to bring idle and underutilized land into full production, to
increase agricultural productivity and to improve the efficiency of mar-
keting institutions--the Banana Growers' Association and the Agricultural
Marketing Board.   There is scope for expanding industrial activity and
attracting more tourists to the island, but concerted effort would be
required to strengthen the management and promotion capabilities of the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank and the Industrial Development
Corporation,  and to stimulate  private  entrepreneurship.    Only when an
expanded productive base is created will the capacity emerge for placing
the public finances on a viable footing and for improving the social
services. In addition, the public sector institutions must be strengthened
to provide the technical capability to formulate and administer effective
policies and programs.



- 4 -
14.        Development of the directly productive sectors is closely linked
to the substantial reconstruction and rehabilitation requirements of
Dominica's economic infrastructure.   The economy is heavily dependent on
its ability to transport export crops efficiently--some of them, such as
bananas, being highly perishable. However, the domestic transportation
capacity has been severely reduced by lack of an adequate program of main-
tenance and by recent hurricane damage.   The present critically deterio-
rated condition of the main roads is a constraint on the export sector,
mainly agricultural, but also offers no incentive for diversification into
tourism and export manufacture. Rehabilitation of the main road network is
an essential task.  In view of the existing budgetary constraints and the
consequent inability of the Government in the near future to increase
greatly recurrent expenditures for maintenance, appropriate phasing of
priority infrastructural investments is of critical importance.
15.          The Government elected   in 1980 is committed to accelerating
growth and improving economic management.   It has a strong parliamentary
majority. The thrust of the Government's development strategy is to focus
the public investment effort on a limited number of productive projects to
bring maximum relief to the country's unemployment situation and balance of
payments over the medium term.   The Government presented a list of these
projects to donors of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development for financing. Several of the projects such as rehabilitation
of banana and coconut plantations, development of the citrus industry,
treecrop diversification, coffee development and production of essential
oils are now underway with external financing, as is also restoration of
the deepwater port damaged by the hurricanes. Projects comtemplated in the
agricultural sector include promotion of ornamental plants production and
prawn farming.   In infrastructure,  a major program for road and bridge
reconstruction and maintenance is given the highest priority. Without this
supporting infrastructure, the projected benefits from many of the other
investments could not be fully realized.  Together, these projects should
contribute significantly to an increase in export earnings.
16.         The principal donors providing finance are the United Kingdom
(UK), the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) and the European Economic Community (EEC). These
donors have also indicated their intention to assist in financing the com-
prehensive road maintenance and rehabilitation program, of which the pro-
posed IDA project is a portion.
17.        The Government's development strategy involves encouragement of
the private sector, especially in agriculture, processing of agricultural
products and enclave manufacturing. Thus, as a first stage, the Government
has abolished the Land Management Authority, whose responsibility was to
manage Government owned lands, and is seeking ways to make these lands
available to proven farmers in economic units.   Similarly, the Government
has reactivated the Industrial Development Corporation to be the institu-
tional agent for promoting private manufacturing activities. This agency,
under dynamic management, is obtaining assistance from the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) for staff training, and UK
technical assistance in the form of consultant services for industrial
promotion.



- 5 -
18.            In order to address  the need for appropriate policies to
strengthen public sector management and improve fiscal performance,  the
Government in 1981 entered into an extended arrangement with the IMF in
which it undertook to implement over a three-year period a financial pro-
gram designed to redress the structural imbalances in the public finances.
Within the program of restraint on current expenditures, two key elements
were that the statutory boards were to be made independent of the Central
Government budget, and that wage increases for Central Government workers
were to be held to 10% annually for the next three years, compared to
changes in the domestic consumer price index averaging 21% in 1979-81. The
IMF mid-year review found that considerable progress had been made in
respect of the statutory bodies. Port and water tariffs had been increased
and the finances of the Housing Development Corporation had been strength-
ened by an increase in property dues and introduction of maintenance
charges.  Concerning the 10% wage settlement reached with Central Govern-
ment employees, the Government intends to make it the norm throughout the
economy and has strongly resisted pressures for higher settlements in some
public entities. However, unions in Dominica are strong and the Government
has had only some success in this area to date.   Another area receiving
attention was  the  structure  of  the  budget.    The  Government  has  made
adequate provision for road maintenance, implying a substantial increase
over recent past levels. As a result of the measures taken by the Govern-
ment, the IMF judged performance under the program to be within the overall
targets.
Prospects
19.       Medium-term prospects are limited by the long gestation period of
many of the proposed productive projects such as coconuts and other tree
crops.  They will, therefore, depend primarily on the ability to increase
productivity and output of bananas for which there is an assured market.
Special efforts will be required to ensure satisfactory performance of the
banana industry.  Primarily because of low productivity and weak institu-
tional  structures,  the viability  of  the  industry  in all the Windward
islands, including Dominica, is confronted with great uncertainties, and
the Dominica Banana Growers' Association is experiencing severe financial
difficulties.   Several external donors are considering a plan to support
needed improvements in the Windward islands banana industry, including the
Dominica industry.
20.       Further prospects for the medium term lie in the prompt implemen-
tation of some short gestation projects with significant export potential,
such as prawn farming and in the ability to attract and establish small
scale manufacturing, chiefly the labor intensive assembly type for export.
Successful implementation of the policies and programs underway and pro-
posed by the new Government to improve management and production would
stimulate investor confidence and enhance the prospects for manufacturing,
and for fuller exploitation of the limited tourism potential.
21.        Provided the Government continues to adopt appropriate economic
and fiscal policies, and provided support from the external community can
be relied on as in the recent past, the economy would experience moderate
growth in the medium term and Dominica's public finances would be signifi-
cantly strengthened so that the deficits of the Central Government and of



- 6 -
the statutory bodies are eliminated by 1984/85.   Export earnings in the
medium term would depend mainly on bananas as in the past.   Success in
stimulating private investment and timely execution of the public sector
investment program, including the large road program, together would imply
a high rate of investment relative to GDP.   Much of the investment will
build up the long run capacity of the economy to produce, rather than yield
an immediate impact on output and incomes.  The high level of investment,
modest growth, and essential measures in the public finances will of
necessity limit growth in consumption, and national savings performance
would improve as public sector deficits are eliminated.
22.       Dominica's prospects for achievement of a sustainable balance of
payments position hinge upon the successful and timely execution of the
public investment program, the critical elements of which pertain to deve-                a
lopment of export agriculture, and provision of supporting infrastructure.
The process will of necessity be lengthy. A further constraint will be the
scarcity of technical, managerial, and skilled manpower. The size and com-
plexity of the public investment program will make heavy new demands upon
the limited institutional and management capability existing within
Dominica's public sector.  The ability to plan, prepare, and execute pro-
jects efficiently will be an increasingly critical factor.  The Government
recently established the Economic Developmental Unit to identify, prepare
and monitor development projects and is seeking technical assistance from
donors to strengthen the Unit. The Government has demonstrated a willing-
ness to introduce adequate policy measures and to adopt sound management
practices.   Continuation of these policies is a prerequisite for placing
the economy on a viable growth path.
23.        Government and government-guaranteed external debt at the end of
1980 was US$16.4 million or 30% of GDP.   Of this, only US$3 million was
owed by the Central Government, the remainder was government-guaranteed
debt--principally a CDB loan of US$6 million to the Port Authority. Almost
all the debt consists of loans from CDB on concessional terms.  In 1980,
total debt service payments amounted to US$0.9 million, equivalent to 5.6%
of foreign exchange  earnings.   The low ratio is explained  by the low
interest and long-term structure of the debt.   In spite of the present
relatively low debt service ratio, Dominica will have to acquire its exter-
nal capital inflow on a grant or highly concessional basis.   Given the
existing budget constraints, donors should be prepared to finance the local
cost requirements of externally supported projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.        Dominica gained independence from the United Kingdom in November
1978.  It became a member of the Bank and IDA in June 1980.  The proposed
credit would be the first Bank Group operation in the country.
25.         Even prior to its independence, Dominica was a member of the
Caribbean Development Bank with which the Bank Group has had two lending
operations. The second operation contains a sub-credit to Dominica for the
transport sector--US$3 million for restoration of port facilities damaged
by recent hurricanes. The sub-credit was made on IDA terms.



-  7  -
26.       Dominica's participation in the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development established in 1977 brought it into more direct
contact with the Bank, again prior to its independence and membership in
the organization, and continuing thereafter. The Bank has annually
organized and participated in the joint World Bank/CDB/IMF economic
missions to Dominica to prepare the economic documentation for the
Caribbean Group meeings. In this process, Bank staff have maintained a
dialogue with the Government on the formulation of a realistic investment
program based on resource availability and absorptive capacity. In its
capacity as Chairman of the Caribbean Group, the Bank has also sponsored
sub-group meetings of aid donors for Dominica. These have been instru-
mental in focusing donor attention in a coordinated way on the central
issues of economic performance, and on the priority financing requirements
of the Government. Dominica moreover, is included as a potential bene-
ficiary in the several regional programs and projects sponsored by the
Caribbean Group, such as the regional export promotion and transportation
projects and the Caribbean Project Development Facility already estab-
lished. Primarily through the activities of the Caribbean Group, the Bank
has developed a dialogue with the Government on its development priorities
and economic policies, and has played a leading role in helping to obtain
and coordinate external assistance, both financial and technical, for
Dominica.
27.       More directly, in addition to the IDA assistance in financing and
coordinating the proposed road project, Dominica benefitted also from a
World Bank/UNESCO Cooperative Program education sector survey conducted as
part of a regional study mounted earlier this year in the less developed
countries of the Eastern Caribbean.
28.       Following this direct operation to assist Dominica with its major
road program, it is not anticipated that another suitable project for
direct Bank Group financing would be identified in the near future. The
Bank's Group future operations in Dominica would, therefore, most likely
continue to be made indirectly through the CDB, and through the activities
of the Caribbean Group, including any regional and sub-regional programs
and projects--especially in the agricultural sector and other areas with an
export emphasis--that might be sponsored or supported by the Bank Group.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
29.       Efficient transportation is essential to Dominica's economy which
is heavily dependent on export agriculture.  The transport infrastructure
consists of a deepwater port and two jetties, two airstrips and 750 km of
motorable roads. The external transport infrastructure is generally satis-
factory. The internal transport infrastructure, by contrast, is in a
severely deteriorated condition. The rehabilitation of the road network,
and the improvement of road maintenance practices to prevent deterioration
in the future, are urgently required to support the revitalization of the
island's productive capacity, particularly that of the agricultural sector.



-8-
External Transport
30.       Most of Dominica's exports and imports are moved by sea.  Two
thirds of the island's cargo is handled by the deepwater port at Woodbridge
Bay, near the capital city of Roseau. This port was damaged during the
1979 Huricane David, but the most urgent repairs required to keep the port
in operation have been completed. The remaining restoration works are cur-
rently under way with financing from the Caribbean Development Bank. A
substantial part of Dominica's export crops are shipped through the jetty
at Portsmouth, which is being reconstructed with Canadian assistance.
31.       The main airstrip at Melville Hall on the northeast coast has a
1,460m unlighted runway and a passenger terminal, and accommodates the 48-
seaters used by the inter-island feeder airline. A 613m airstrip at Cane-
field, two miles from the capital city, accommodates only light aircraft.
Daily flights operate from Melville Hall to and from neighboring islands.
Passengers from Roseau must drive almost two hours over a 53 km tortuous
road to reach the Melville Hall Airport.
The Highway Subsector
32.       Of the 750 km of motorable roads, only 320 km are paved, and only
few of the road sections have been constructed according to engineering
design standards. The roads are generally of one-lane width and without
shoulders. Because of the predominantly mountainous topography, most road
sections have abrupt changes in horizontal and vertical alignments. The
road network is in very poor condition overall. Extreme weather conditions,
including the devastating effects of hurricanes in 1979 and 1980, coupled
with the effects of years of inadequate maintenance and aged pavement and
drainage systems, contributed to the severe deterioration of the roads.
Pavements, because of insufficient depth, are broken up over substantial
length, and the roads with earth surfaces can be traversed only with diffi-
culty, even in dry periods. Road-side drainage is virtually non-existent0
33.       Even though traffic volumes outside the Roseau area are rela-
tively low--an average daily traffic (ADT) of 100-600 vehicles per day
(vpd)--the present motorable road network is essential for meeting the
transport needs of the island. It serves most of the island's population,
which is scattered along the coast line in about 80 villages and towns, as
well as the main airport, the two ports and areas of agricultural produc-
tion. The network, if rehabilitated and properly maintained, would be ade-
quate for the country's present needs and its expansion would be required
only in connection with the opening up of new areas for exploitation of
timber or other natural resources.
34.       The most heavily utilized road section on the island is the
Layou-Roseau-Loubiere road, with an ADT of about 2,300 vpd. The west coast
road from Layou to Portsmouth, the road from Layou to the Melville Hall
Airport and the Loubiere to Grand Bay road have ADTs ranging from 350 to
600 vpd. The remainder of the main roads carry between 100 and 300 vpd.
Existing data suggest that between 1974 and 1980 traffic has declined or
stagnated on roads serving agricultural areas. These roads are the most



- 9 -
severely deteriorated and the stagnation and decline in traffic is most
likely due to the joint effects of poor agricultural performance since the
hurricanes and the poor condition of the roads with their attendant high
vehicle operating costs. The vehicle population remained fairly static at
about 3,600 units between 1974 and 1978, but since then it has grown sub-
stantially and by January 1981 it reached about 4,900 units.
35.       In the past, road maintenance efforts in Dominica were sporadic,
unplanned and inadequately executed; consequently they were largely
ineffective. The MCWT had no formal maintenance organization and though
under the Government's extended arrangement with the IMF the road main-
tenance budget was increased significantly in FY1981/82, the budgeted funds
were only partially released pending MCWT's preparation of a detailed plan
of maintenance work to support its budget requests.  The technical assis-
tance component of the proposed project addresses this problem by providing
for the development of a systematic approach to the planning, programming
and execution of routine and periodic maintenance.
36.       The MCWT equipment is administered in a central pool and is hired
out to Government agencies and private individuals at established rates.
This Hire Funding Scheme is working well, except that rates have not been
high enough to provide for periodic replacement of aged equipment.   The
Government has given assurances that the Hire Fund charges would be revised
annually, and that charges would be set to ensure recovery of the costs of
owning, maintaining and operating the equipment (Section 4.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Road Transport Industry and Regulation
37.       The road transport industry, with the exception of passenger ser-
vice, is not closely regulated by the Government.  Truck rates are freely
set through competition.   Taxi and minibus fares are set in consultation
with representatives of industry by MCWT.   These fares are revised often
and are adequate to cover operating and replacement costs. While there are
no vehicle weight and dimension regulations, excessive truck loading does
not appear to be a problem in the island.   Taxes on gasoline and motor
vehicle imports are the most important sources of revenues from road user
charges. These revenues are not earmarked for road expenditures but are
more than sufficient to cover maintenance expenditures.
38.        Fuel prices in Dominica cover cif import prices and commerciali-
zation costs. In October 1981 the retail price of gasoline was US$2.22 per
imperial gallon (US$1.86 per US gallon), and of diesel US$1.67 per imperial
gallon (US$1.40 per US gallon).  The tax component of gasoline and diesel
oil retail prices is 42% and 11% respectively.  Dominica obtains most of
its electricity supply from hydroelectric installations, and depends on
imported fuel mainly for transportation purposes. The Government is making
further efforts to reduce the country's dependence on imported fuel by
emphasizing development of hydroelectric power.



- 10 -
39.         MCWT is responsible for all activities related to the national
road network.   In practice, limitations of funds, manpower and equipment
have dictated that the Ministry's efforts be concentrated in improving and
maintaining primary roads and certain feeder roads, leaving the majority of
the strictly local roads to be maintained by the village councils and local
residents.   The Ministry's technical staff is supplemented with an expa-
triate technical adviser furnished by the United Kingdom. For administra-
tive and maintenance purposes, the country is divided into four districts,
each with a maintenance superintendent whose activities are coordinated
by MCWT.
Road Transport Planning and Financing
40.        The Government's principal objective in the transport sector is
the rapid rehabilitation of the road network and the establishment of ade-
quate road maintenance.   To this end, the MCWT has prepared a Road Main-
tenance and Rehabilitation Program which represents the Government's first
effort  at  systematic  road  investment  planning.    The  1982-85  Program,
adopted in November 1981, provides for the rehabilitation of Dominica's
road network and for the strenghtening of MCWT's road maintenance organiza-
tion and practices to meet recurrent requirements once the rehabilitation
is completed.  This Program, a part of which represents the proposed pro-
ject, would be financed by a number of external donors including the OPEC
Fund, CIDA, the EEC, the CDB, the UK, and possibly USAID.   The Program
consists of:
(a) The rehabilitation of 227 km of main roads, including 14
bridges.
(b) The improvement or construction of 43 km of feeder roads.
(c) A four-year road and equipment maintenance program which
would provide for the planning and execution of routine and
periodic maintenance of some 750 km of roads under MCWT
jurisdiction.   The maintenance program would include:   (i)
intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration over
320 km of roads, including those roads to be rehabilitated
under item (a) above; (ii) procurement of road maintenance
equipment and vehicles and spare parts; and (iii) improve-
ments and reorganization of MCWT's central workshops and
stores.
(d) Technical assistance by a consulting firm to staff a Program
Management Unit and (i) assist MCWT in executing the Pro-
gram, particularly in coordinating the activities of the
external contributors; (ii) prepare and implement the main-
tenance program, including organizing and supervising the
intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration pro-
gram, and train MCWT office and field staff and interested
individuals in the private sector in maintenance activities;
and (iii) engineer and supervise the rehabilitation of road
sections, except where this was being done by other partici-
pants in the Program.



- 11 -
41.        To provide for coordination and consistency, four guiding prin-
ciples were agreed by the Government and the major external contributors.
They are:
(a) Definition of one coherent Program providing an integrated
framework for external contributions and made up of high
priority elements which provide for the build up of road and
equipment maintenance capability, and for the rehabilitation
of roads and bridges.
(b) Establishment of a Program Management Unit to assist MCWT to
coordinate and update the Program.   Areas for coordination
would include: materials sources, supply and storage; local
equipment and haulage availability; road signs and marking;
facilitation of permits and licences, importation and tax-
ation; review of engineering reports and monthly progress
reports of the contributors' projects and development of
road and bridge standards; and advisory role to MCWT at
meetings of a Steering Committee made up of representatives
of MCWT, including staff of the Program Management Unit, and
contributing agencies for review of work progress and prob-
lem resolution.   It would be a condition of effectiveness
that a Program Management Unit staffed by MCWT personnel and
technical assistance consultants acceptable to IDA be estab-
lished (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Government has agreed to the estab-
lishment of the Steering Committee by September 30, 1982,
and to its functions (Section 3.06 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
(c) External financing of all non-recurrent Program costs, with
Government's contribution to the Program being applied to
recurrent maintenance activities.
(d)  Adoption of least cost solutions for road rehabilitation,
consistent with the best use of capital, and with satisfac-
tory economic returns, with technical solutions emphasizing
pavement strengthening and drainage improvements, and mini-
mizing geometrical improvements and widening of the existing
roadway.  These solutions would, however, take due account
of the safety of road users and the limited recurrent main-
tenance resources available.
42.          The Program's cost (including contingencies) is estimated at
US$36.0 million over the period 1982-85.  The capital investments contem-
plated under the Program represent about 27% of the Government's public
sector investment program.   This level of investment is in line with the
high priority placed by the Government on the rehabilitation of key infra-
structure.    Further,  these  investments  complement  priority investments
planned over the same period aimed at restoring the agricultural sector.
The size of the Program is reasonable given the fact that in the past the
road network had been seriously neglected.   It is not contemplated, how-
ever, that this level of investment would be sustained beyond the Program
period. Instead, provisions are made in the Program for the establishment



- 12 -
of proper road maintenance practices in order to preserve these investments
and thereby avoid deterioration and costly reconstruction in the future.
43.        Some 14% of total Program costs, representing administration and
recurrent maintenance expenditures, would be financed by the Government.
This is equivalent to about 50% of the local costs of the Program as a
whole.   Fifty-four percent of the financing requirements would be met by
CIDA, the EEC, the CDB, the UK, IDA and the OPEC Fund.  Financing has not
been confirmed for the remaining 32% of the Program. However, the Govern-
ment has approached the USAID for financing of the 53 km Hatton Garden-
Layou-Roseau road.  The remaining component of the Program for which finan-
cing is still required is the rehabilitation of 35 km of roads, La Plaine-
Delices, Grand Bay-Petite Savanne and Pt. Michel-Scott's Head, scheduled
for rehabilitation in 1985 and for which economic justification must still
be confirmed.   These roads have been tentatively included in the Program
pending establishment of the economic benefits from integrated rural deve-
lopment projects proposed for the areas of influence.  The Government has
given assurances that it will submit by June 30, 1983 the economic evalua-
tion of these roads for IDA's review and comment (Section 4.03 of the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement).
44.         The Association has reviewed the road maintenance requirements
for the Program period.   Taking into account the substantially reduced
levels of periodic maintenance that would be required on the paved network
in this period when about 65% of the network will be rehabilitated, it is
estimated that EC$2.4 million annually, at 1981 prices, would provide for
an adequate level of routine and periodic road maintenance during FY1982/83
to FY1985/86.  The Government has given assurances that these funds would
be approved and released in a timely manner, and that by February 1, 1983
and in each year of the Program period thereafter, before presenting the
annual budget to Parliament it will submit detailed estimates of the road
maintenance budget for IDA's review and comment (Section 4.04 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The Government has given assurances that: (i) the elements in the
Program would be given priority over other capital investments for roads;
and (ii) the Government and IDA would have annual consultations regarding
the composition, timing and financing of the Program (Section 4.05 of the
Development Credit Agreement). The progress of the Program and the status
of its financing plan will be reviewed annually at the meetings of the
Steering Committee starting by the end of 1982.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
46.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project - Dominica" (No. 3808a-DOM dated March 4, 1982) is
being distributed separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events
in processing the project and a description of the special conditions of
the proposed credit.  The project was appraised in October/November 1981.
Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. on February 25-26, 1982.
Dominica's delegation was led by Hon. Henry G. Dyer, Minister of Communica-
tions, Works and Tourism.



- 13 -
Objectives
47.         The proposed project would contribute to the Government's Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program by providing for rehabilitation of
priority road sections, for strengthening of MCWT's road maintenance orga-
nization and practices to meet recurrent requirements once the road rehabi-
litation is completed, and for coordination and consistency among the
several contributors to the Program.
Description
48.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  Rehabilitation on three road sections totalling 36 km:  (i)
*                        Roseau - Loubiere - Pt. Michel; (ii) Loubiere - Grand Bay;
(iii) Bois Diable - La Plaine.
(b) intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration over
320 km of main roads;
(c) procurement of about 22 units of road maintenance equipment
and vehicles and spare parts; and
(d) about 160 man-months of consultancy services to staff the
Program Management Unit and provide technical assistance to
MCWT for (i) engineering and supervision of rehabilitation
of road sections; (ii) preparing and executing the road
maintenance program; (iii) design and implementation of an
appropriate cost accounting system; (iv) coordination of
works in the road Program; and (v) training of MCWT staff
and appropriate construction industry personnel in road
maintenance techniques.
49.       Road Rehabilitation.  The project provides for the rehabilitation
of three road sections totalling 36 km. The Roseau-Loubiere-Pt. Michel (4
km) and the Loubiere-Grand Bay (13 km) roads are among the most heavily
trafficked roads on the island, and would require an asphalt overlay. The
Loubiere-Grand Bay road rehabilitation would also provide for the recon-
struction of two bridges and widening, where practical, to improve sight
distances and traffic safety.  The 19 km Bois Diable-La Plaine road, has
lower levels of traffic but is an important collector for banana and other
agricultural crops. The more heavily utilized Bois Diable-Rosalie (10 km)
section of this road would require an asphalt surface treatment.   The
Rosalie-La Plaine section would receive spot rehabilitation on the most
severely deteriorated parts.
50.        Intensive Pavement Patching and Drainage Restoration.  Intensive
pavement patching and drainage restoration is intended to improve tem-
porarily the riding qualities and prevent further deterioration of
Dominica's main road system. In addition, it would prepare the roads for
subsequent rehabilitation under the overall Program.   The component pro-
vides for the patching of the paved portions of some 320 km of main roads
as well as for the reshaping of ditches and cleaning of obstructed culverts



- 14 -
along the roads.  The planning and implementation of this component would
be among the immediate tasks to be undertaken by the Program Management
Unit.   Because these works would prepare the roads for rehabilitation,
contracts for rehabilitation works under the project would be signed only
after at least 70% of the intensive pavement patching and drainage
restoration had been completed on the road in question (Section 3.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). It is expected that pavement patching
and drainage restoration would be initiated in April 1982, prior to the
beginning of the hurricane season (July-October) and be completed by early
1983.
51.        Road Maintenance Equipment.  The proposed project would provide
for the procurement of about 22 units of road maintenance equipment. Spare
parts, up to 20% of equipment value, would be purchased for this equip-
ment. In addition, spare parts would be purchased for corrective and pre-
ventive maintenance of existing equipment that can be economically uti-
lized.
52.         Technical Assistance and Training.  The project would provide
technical assistance by consultants for: (i) preparation of detailed engi-
neering and tender documents for the 36 km of roads to be rehabilitated
under the project, the 53 km Hatton Garden-Layou-Roseau road, and the 35 km
of roads for which the economic justification is to be confirmed; (ii)
supervision of works which would not be supervised by other contributors;
(iii) preparation of specifications and bidding documents for procurement
of equipment; (iv) assistance to MCWT in planning and implementation of
intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration of main roads, in the
preparation and implementation of a four-year road maintenance program, and
in coordinating the activities of all contributing agencies participating
in the overall Program; (v) design and implementation of a cost accounting
system to verify expenditures by MCWT force account for intensive pavement
patching and drainage restoration, and for management of maintenance expen-
ditures and provision of a basis for estimating budgetary requirements; and
(vi) training of MCWT supervisory, skilled maintenance and field staff, as
well as appropriate construction industry personnel, in efficient and cost
effective techniques for routine and periodic maintenance of both paved and
unpaved roads, utilizing on-the-job demonstration, informal seminars and
limited-scale formal training courses.
53.          A total of 160 man-months of technical assistance would be
required, of which 110 man-months are for expatriate staff.  The consul-
tants would provide a highway engineer, pavement engineer, maintenance
engineer, maintenance superintendent and cost accountant/systems analyst in
addition to about 50 man-months of support staff such as draftsmen and sur-
veyors.   The terms  of reference for the consulting services have been
agreed and consultants are expected to be selected (on the basis of pro-
posals received from an agreed short list) and mobilized by April 1982.
The employment of consultants would be made in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



- 15 -
54.       Accounting and Auditing.  MCWT does have an accounting and inter-
nal control system in place. However, actual recording of expenditures is
reported to be deficient, mainly due to the lack of trained staff.  Fur-
ther, the Hiinistry does not record force account expenditures in sufficient
detail to be used as a basis for Statements of Expenditures which, in the
case of the intensive patching and drainage restoration program, would be
used to claim for disbursements.  For this reason, the project provides,
under the technical assistance component, for the services of an accountant
who would be charged with setting up an adequate cost accounting system
which, inter alia, would monitor project accounts and which would be used
also to certify Statements of Expenditures. Annual audits are made by the
Director of Audits.  His office, however, lacks sufficiently trained and
experienced staff to ensure timely preparation of audits.  The Director's
office is receiving technical assistance from the IMF to improve its
auditing and monitoring capability.   Under the project, annual external
audits of project accounts and the equipment hire fund accounts would be
made by a private auditing firm, acceptable to IDA.
55.        Cost Estimates and Financing.  The proposed project is estimated
to cost US$7.2 million.   This includes contingency allowances of US$1.6
million and taxes of US$76,000 (for fuel only; import duties are not appli-
cable on equipment imported for Government use).   Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 15%.  Price contingencies on local costs have been
estimated at 15% per annum, and on foreign costs, at 8.5% for 1982, and at
7.5%  per annum thereafter.   The  foreign  exchange  component  is US$5.5
million.   Cost estimates for the road rehabilitation works are based on
preliminary  engineering  prepared  by  a  consultant   retained  by  the
Association.   Given  the  need  for the  intensive  pavement patching  and
drainage restoration program to be well advanced prior to the onset of the
hurricane season (July to October), contracting of consultants for detailed
engineering was being conducted in parallel with processing of the IDA
credit in order to avoid delays.   Since the works entail a minimum of
geometric redesigning, the final quantities on the average are not expected
to exceed the preliminary engineering estimates by more than 15%.   Cost
estimates take into account recent costs in Dominica on similar works
carried out on a significantly smaller scale than that envisaged under the
project.     Estimates   for  intensive  pavement  patching  and  drainage
restoration are based on recent costs of similar work by MCWT force
account. The cost of maintenance equipment is based upon MCWT and Bank/IDA
experience with similar purchases in the region.   The cost of technical
assistance is estimated on the basis of an average rate of US$8,500
equivalent per man-month (including transportation and subsistence) for
expatriate staff.  The cost of local consultants is estimated at US$2,000
equivalent per man-month, which is in line with current costs in Dominica
for similar services.
Financing Plan
56.        The IDA credit of SDR 4.4 million represents 69% of the project
cost and 92% of the foreign costs. The OPEC Fund is expected to provide a
loan of US$2.0 million for 20 years, including 5 years grace period, with a
service charge of .75% and no interest, to participate with IDA in the
financing of the road rehabilitation component.   The OPEC Fund loan is
expected to be approved shortly.   However,  since it has not yet been



- 16 -
formally approved, an agreed financing plan for the road rehabilitation
component would be a condition of disbursement for this part of the project
(Schedule 1, paragraph 3(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
IDA would also finance the full cost of the technical assistance and
equipment, and the total cost, exclusive of MCWT labor, of the pavement
patching and drainage restoration.   The Government's contribution would
finance the cost of MCWT local labor for the pavement patching and drainage
restoration component of the project.
Project Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
57.       MCWT would be responsible for project execution.  The consultants
staffing the Program Management Unit under technical assistance would serve
in an advisory capacity to MCWT. To ensure proper management and control
of the project, the Government has given assurances that it would assign a
half-time senior engineer and, full time, one highway maintenance engineer,
one highway maintenance superintendent, and an accountant, all of them
acceptable to the Association, who will serve as key counterparts to the
technical assistance consultants' staff. Appointment of three of the four
staff and contracting of the technical assistance consultant services would
be conditions of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
58.         The implementation period for the project would be about four
years (1982 through 1985).  The rehabilitation works would be carried out
by contract after prequalification and international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Because of the type
and quantities of work, the intensive pavement patching and drainage res-
toration program is considered to be most suited to execution under force
account by MCWT utilizing local petty contracts and local labor wherever
possible. The work is within the capability of MCWT field units; quality
and quantity control and supervision would be provided by the Program
Management Unit's technical assistance consultant.  All plans, specifica-
tions and bidding documents for rehabilitation works, equipment and work-
shop improvements would be subject to prior review and approval by the
Association.
59.        The procurement program for equipment would be subject to prior
approval of the Association.   Contracts for equipment would be awarded on
the basis of international  competitive  bidding  in accordance with  the                4
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement, excepting contracts for miscellaneous
items of equipment or spare parts not exceeding US$20,000 and up to an
aggregate of US$100,000. Such contracts would be awarded on the basis of
competing quotations solicited locally, or, in the case of spare parts for
existing equipment, through direct negotiations with suppliers.
60.       Principal indicators by which the project would be monitored are:
(i) execution of the project as compared with the implementation schedule;
(ii) budgeting of adequate funds for road maintenance and prompt release of
those budgeted,funds; (iii) availability of road maintenance equipment; and
(iv) utilization of road maintenance equipment. The Government has agreed
to furnish to the Association by December 31, 1982, for its review and com-
ment, an analysis of MCWT's road maintenance equipment availability and
utilization, together with proposed annual targets for these indices.



- 17 -
taking into account expected improvements in equipment maintenance and
utilization practices (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment).
61.        The CDB is participating in the road Program with financing for
feeder  roads  and  bridge  reconstruction.    In  order  to  enhance  CDB's
experience in the technical and institutional aspects of highway
maintenance programs, arrangements have been made to mount joint IDA/CDB
supervision missions.
Disbursements
62.         The IDA credit would be disbursed against 53 percent of total
expenditures for road rehabilitation; 100% of expenditures for equipment
and spare parts; 100% of total expenditures (exclusive of MCWT labor costs)
for pavement patching and drainage restoration; and 100% of total expendi-
tures for technical assistance and cost of annual audit.
63.         Disbursements would be made against standard documentation for
all items except intensive pavement patching and drainage restoration. In
the latter case, it is envisaged that work would be carried out by force
account and disbursement would be against Statements of Expenditures veri-
fied by the technical assistance consultants. Supporting documentation for
such Statements of Expenditures would not be sent to IDA but would be
retained by MCWT and made available for review during project supervision
missions.  Such Statements of Expenditures would be subject to a specific
audit. The closing date would be December 31, 1986. Retroactive financing
of up to US$150,000 would be provided for expenditures made for intensive
pavement patching and drainage restoration carried out after March 1, 1982,
and up to US$250,000 for consultancy services contracted after March 1,
1982 (Schedule 1, paragraph 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
64.         The proposed project is expected to yield benefits in several
areas.   The rehabilitation and intensive pavement patching and drainage
restoration components which account for 75% of project cost, are calcu-
lated to yield an economic rate of return of 23%.  The pavement patching
and drainage restoration, accounting for 12% of the project cost, has an
economic rate of return of 50%.   The calculated benefits from these two
components are based on savings in vehicle operating costs, including
savings in fuel costs. Although not easily quantifiable and therefore not
taken into account in determining the economic rate of return, a major
expected benefit would be that the significantly reduced cost of trans-
porting agricultural products and agricultural inputs and supplies would
stimulate an increase in agricultural production, creating new employment
opportunities in rural areas and increasing exports.   The project would
also have a direct employment impact, creating 720 man years of employment
during the construction phase. This would increase employment in construc-
tion by about 25%. The technical assistance component of the project would
strengthen MCWT's capacity for maintenance planning and execution and,
through the training program, would impart skills to the private sector
also.   No attempt was made to quantify the benefits from the institution
building elements of this component, which account for about 15% of project
costs.



- 18 -
Risks
65.       The main risk to successful execution of the project is the shor-
tage of qualified technical staff in MCWT to plan and execute road rehabi-
litation and maintenance works. The problem has been addressed through the
provision of technical assistance under the project to assist MCWT in its
administration and planning tasks and in coordinating the execution of the
entire road Program. In order to reduce the shortage, the project aims at
a substantial training component which will involve, to the extent pos-
sible, interested private sector persons in addition to public sector
employees. The Government's intention is to develop a pool of expertise on
the island which would be able to carry out maintenance works efficiently
after the technical assistance is completed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.        The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Commonwealth
of Dominica and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
Establishment of the Program Management Unit, contracting of the technical
assistance consultant services and appointment of three of the four coun-
terpart staff would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
67.         I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.         I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 11, 1982



- 19 -
AbNEX I
Page 1 of 5
DOMINICA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV4RGACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. -K.)                                                         - WST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL               M7 iOST RECENT                                            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       0.19              1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  230.0       330.0      400.0 *             1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PE  CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      103.8       214.1     237.6                1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    60.0         71.0       82.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..           ..         ..                 64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        80.0        94.7     109.3                  34.3                      80.6
p                     PER SQ. YM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    333.3         373.7     421.1                  94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                                      49.1         ..                 40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                            ..        45.0         ..                 55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     ..         5.9         ..                  4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.6         1.7/c     1.6/c                 2.4                       1.5
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                  3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.3        37.0      21.3                  31.4                      22.9
CRUD DEATH RATE (PtR THOUSAND)      13.4         9.2       5.0                   8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                .           ..         ..                  2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEx  OF P00  PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)             ..          ..        ..                 108.3                     119.8
PEa CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   84.0         90.0      87.0                 107.6                    125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           52.0        56.0      51.0                  65.8                     92.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        26.0        31.0      26.0                  34.0                     39.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      19.0          ..         ..                  7.6                      3.4
AEALTIi
iiFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0           ..        ..                  64.1                     68.9
INFANT MORTALITY EAME (PER
rHOUSAND)                          107.4         58.3      19.6                  70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERGENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..                 65.7
URtAN                                ..          ..         ..                 79.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRTA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..         ..                 59.9
p                      URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  75.7
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               ..      4560.0   5079.0                 1728.2                    973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       510.0        ..                1288.2                    896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                ..          ..     275.0                 471.2                    262.3
URBAN                                ..          .:        ..                 558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .           ..        ..                    ..                     18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.2          ..        ..                    ..                     17.0
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROM
TOTAL                               1.8          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



-20-                                                 Aunt
Paga 2 of 5
DOMINICA - SoCiiif INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVIRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                121.0        123.0         ..                 101.7                    105.9
MALE                 144.0          ..         ..                 103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               125.0       122.0         ..                 101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0         13.0         ..                  35.3                     66.3
MALE                    ..           ..        ..                  34.9                      73.2
FEMALE                14.0        12.0         ..                  35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   6.0          14.0        7.0                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            35.0         38.6       27.0                  29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                          19.0           ..         ..                  15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        95.3         ..                  80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTIQN
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         ..                  42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         45.0         78.9     227.8                  215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..                  89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..          ..         ..                  62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        20.0         21.2       25.2
FEliALE (PERCENT)                     ..        37.6      35.5                   22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                ..         39.6/d    38.0%d                 35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    ..        18.97      10.9/d                23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                33.3         30.4       32.2                  31.8                     42.3
MALE                                    ..          ..         ..                  49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                                 ..           ..         ..                  14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..         1.8         ..                   1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                187.6                        ..                         q
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Uoless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to migration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;  /d Employed labor force.
*   The Updated 1980 CHP per capita and population estimates to be sho-n                     Hay, 1981
in the 1981 Wuorld Bank Atlas ar $620 (at 1978-80 prices) and 83.0
thousands.



21'v     -                                                                        axx
-~~~~~~~~ ~~~Page  3  of  5
OUIV   Y 1073 AL01 100104
00.0"0  A10t0.0 00 4o . dOin 0,0   -00  80000011  10180  t00 -a0 ooth.oloool  00d 0.140010,. 0 .0.14  L1. b. 0000  b000 000  my~ 000 ho 100-
..oloooiy oinooohl  hoo.0-0  tf t. lok of  cdsd&.od10d daW08101. ca- o.es -ad by 411f.O               -Au00t. 1A ooIl..oO1   0). 40t.. TM  ou  M. oo
00.1... ..o1.0 00 4.0.00)  00. of -.Iwtoo., 1040.00 tv-dd. -d  hdruggM."  0000.0 00100 d11100000  00000  -00. 0.
Th. -of.ood E.". d. (1) t0. -m -o.0oy pow of t00 .0bj00t -0.o.o7 ad (2) . -OOy P000 00th dd-ft OlOoo oooo Io.- b OhA 0000g0 P.
of oh. ..Olop oC.i7 (-.Pt ". '0o1.Oo  Soo$o. Oil 1woooor., powp -... '8411. lg.00.0 80:  Mel1. .02 90044. z_..0  00o. h-  o-   of o000a
W0100 7 . fh tbA=o.8 . 10 0 .0t A.. 4.00 00 t000 101-.0.0. s9oo. tOo  -PEPo of 00000.1..de  th. dl00 oo 4w                      00 Lb. .9o110111t7 00  0
.02 10 00  -a-oo. .0010  00  ho b             L.oi.41  .01000  o..i  of oo UA."1.0.  M -,gh?.  T0... ooooao  00 0.17 Mowo   10 Oool.8  .0.0"L"0.
LAM0 A1M  (o0.o..0  0.14..)                                                               909.2.010  900 I0p100  a0" - 0.00. debdd.    000v.1   909010.10. ("0..1
T.0.  - 7.0.1 .o1.o -- owf.Og  .0200 .- 2 10.0 L.            oood .                       .00..  004 - ooll 1040  by ohIo.       pdrs .......  of 00w000  0.4.
An~E9   - 1001.00   f osOfrLOoWol -00.00 dd"   -W..ly .o poo0.ooy                         00.11.0l-1.     P0010. Md polo     oo' 004 090.1gL...0  hw1u00  .010o
00  00.P--o0. -ok.0-  k10000  -d-o 0- 00 II  foil:; 1971 d0.-.                    boOblli.0.1 ....o00.    -oOoI  o  o.-b010              p-gt..ly otll 0
by 00 1.0.  00  ph"il-0.  000.MIo0.o.d w.ol10Agg p010.p.11y 00000
Mw PM CAPITA (2RS   - ow p.o o.pto.uol.00   -0 T0000  000t pelt"o. 0.1-                     4001 0000000000 i10010.1 I. I00  0.001. h.. I-01J." hooLO
:01."d01by  -  00.0oloo t0d004 o. 0.01  0k000tl  (1977-79 hoL.10; 19600.                  00  001000  -dM.00  000 900--00t01  00-200  by * 9070010  (ho. by 
1970. M0 1979 40-.                                                                        L0."                Me10.0.  000  0140.. 00.1 o00h  ffl. 0.-pool.. oo
4.01.  -d p0.004. 1101001  -oo of "010.  9ddLLLc1.0. 100000010-
T ~1wT00 P   1000 A_OmLI ooinolo  of oom Io0  mop  (w.01                       t001 P-Wp..b. 00000 00091 -10  1.11.  0. P"0..pd l/Sd.ld hoploo1.
00 M150t., POtoln=    0000  so..0  h'l.-, 00100000  10000.000  010-                    .04  -.L0 b0.p1o1. 1-01 -0 0.01 0.09000.00    iIooIg.01  .00.107
000107y)1   OIo-pin  f M.0   "L.111.0  P0r -09000  1940. 1970. .01 1979                 000000.  SWi.101100   o-pitl.  - 000 1010110.1  -00  M0t".
d."0.                                                                                                   ft-1-00  009.001 MA4 - T.00  -.0 of 0d..1oo  0.  12o009
"oI0d001  41.240  by Oh.  .0-  0 ho.".
POUL2I= .=  VrTAL 17T2122CS
4d00700 tMbo. ftt-Too   0.0.  - A0 01 1017 1; 196C. 1970. -d 1979                    n       .5-fh" A     oa
4.00.                                                                               1,0d-  Y  'de    0ddiLt   fd.  t   .. 110.01 0.I0..1 A bde... I00 0.o..0.24    - 000,1 boho.    .ini -2
.Moo00090  1940, 1970. 001 1979 400.0. b.0.0h014 100 00000010L V..poo-
P!OOO1o0000020  - C_dd1g PopoL,o01   poloo             -. 0  b-.o  .  1940               boo  f 0000  p00000  100110h.01001.090    00m.1
p                                0:0.~~~~~W1 p,0.01Atl  bY 0.-.0 - 00.0  00.10 -r.000 t10  .01 0011107 00t00.          Do04-. op0v07    0111... 0-1010 000-p000m0 0000000c. mg
001.  001d 9-1.2 10 l pf o   .0Ooy.0.001100  de 77.5 70000. Tb. p.o-                  Co.100 ..  110.. t10  010000:0007 0  121009000q 00.0- p000.0w
__00  0.  001f          000.. f0lt    ML     ... 00.00 1.00. --M" b. i 41.0  0        f 0.001. 0b... -d4 0.01 IwULln0090117
00001107 0.00,418 0. 1--i  1...1 .01 pot fd.1y 9100.  P90010000...
O.00r,ily 00001  000 P0100Poop...                                                Ad110d0 ILl- i0  00
SM    "W"ti-~- I 0 . .      oo7poool.000   00 .           500yP.Li    b.  .-g.0  020                                         gge 00.      :.1   0.~ b - 1.0  0.t01. -L. o  E.4 0m
0010  :00000. Tbl. 10 ool.d1 0.17 0ft"oo 10000l1t7 Meo. 4.0110 .00PT1.00  00.1P 901000o.. 000117 1..1o4.. 0hlAOn  Pd 0-01
00. 00 -1000 l           -it of t0100   o.poo001o  MM00  000  -ho 500.00l0              P0000 0.t 0120000  0f, d111ff . 1..phM of po y  *~gdtig; 00
of   09100 00.011 ..01.  20. 0100.000y p0.P.00.. 010 0.                             oOOlo  0000 =2.001 ado00010    Ooini   0..0  108 p0000.;
001 -0t0.0.h 01.b 01 000 900J0.00  00.0.00010. of t00 poo.Mct-                      0.oo-   -  popil. 000100h...        00-   b-g.  M.10 .  .00.0    W.
L. 00. y-0  2000. 0d 00. MMo of boll..  f f-oillOy 0000 00 owl...-.                   0.ooodro  -,b.l - 0:01. 001. md fmi  - 0ioo - W  "W .; oooodoo
0.0t 10001.                                                                             040to10  oqb.o 0  bo-  00  P.o of .99-00d P'loyl00.o0400
=.0300.00000         1.. 0 00bo  - Tb. y.o  0000 0t.01.y pop-10.                  o,0o   ..0.  00101  0   00    .100100010010p
00. 00. b.0. o..0l.01.                                           00.0117~~~~~~~~~~-il of 12 M 17 7P00 of 0mm; 000090p 0  000000  6.00
E00.0. - 0017-.o  p.U001.M  p. dlg. OtLIa           (100 bdttd.-1 01                7-.i.00. i 1100.  0000   f0004 9 -0.01.0.1 10.01001.40
0000  0000  1940. 1970 .01 1979 d00.                                                    00101  0000.000. i01000c1,. 0  U0.0 P-e-  001.0g op.o- 1"01o-.
I0.. 0. 00'111:0t"   I-01 - Cm004 .           fh..00  ollO OL  d                      00017 000M 4000.00  of  -00..01000.100
01;1960. 1970 .d219784.d..                                                        P00.L1-t0.00. 0000  - 0000000  -01 00000100  - 2T001 00.000  inolI   1.
OoOoglOo0o00 0000. (.0000.  - COLOon- (0-10  .01 Y-         .001.4-0   1-                    000  -01  --d.40   100010 409t01 by -.o of 00b.00. 1000..
1-00; 1940. 1970. -ol 1979 400..                                                       0100  00... oo. (oooono  - Uooooo 0010. (.h1. 00 0.01 0   -000.1
pooo00-0 1..0  0.0 .0000                                         Mgo0     0..   000   0...    0                  M1-0090000   f001 04.10 90001-10000  17 7000  -0d.0
7000  000100.0  000191060.  940-0.  170-79.
0.01010 0o.00000 (ot     - 000  - Agg.-I p000   Mt00  .f 00000 9000.000!
10000  or190-0.19I -0..0  1970-79.                                               C0.00. 10  (~.000000  00090  g-.P....n0  00- Me.  0.00000
hO4  00 0.0. (00.00.01   - A.-001-0. 0b000  00  tb.o.d of "dw.-p                     000000t100 1000h 00.0 0100              ..000010100  bb.0000  h.0
700101. 1960  1010  .   1979 0.0..                                                   0010007 -000100.
Cool, oot)9000(too  bo.-02  - 0in01 40.00. OO t0.... o.f 010-700                    001          l,0000  (I-00000         i-01000  - 0,11. 07900  f0 00 f1000  00A4
p091.00   190.190. .-d L079 4000.                                                  000.0. 00 0000010110 90  00000d of  -0.010;mL..&-
10.0000400000.0- A00008  -.010 of 00300.0       .0111 0b0  00                            110.-.0  00_100  .10         i. "00000  10 7000  "0 0001000010 of001
00000-I 00700400010  90000  1f o.  PwOOOi,-0p9o00f00             f.-090010  00-94001  010000; 4000 0. 0000  Pt00-  00? 000 ho opooh1  .
t01107 000.; 00.117 ft0000700  0000000  -0o0 i0 1960. 1970. -d1 1979.                  ft00   -iOlo  b.1.1.0dI04        - 11..1.
70.010 710001    -   - -0000 A-.l fth-o0A) - Am.L   m.: of d-"dgg..                     20Oooo  (o   M0000 0.00I1,000- TV  f..1.. 0  bOO0100M
700117 100-.0 - 00-0 f00000   .00  00'- P000000.01 .00000                                10 0000010  001 10  -. .00  ..gOotOooo of 20.0W         001 0210..
011 0002. in    10 om MbP 5Po .                                                         00010  '.Loly 8.001100000.790  4021001M .o  p.01.410
Pggb1.-t10. 4.0t00  P010.0017 00 00000410  000000    -.  It I0 0000000
1.100 -10001 o.M."kn00 0010 1671..1001 - r0400  90   010..0                                1mO O  0040000 .0  0  00- 00..1 0.00. .Am- of
p-ooli.01    :0.11 food := 1lO 9c..9 0001001.iId..01.110  0                             0000000.1-I 400108 U. 700.  M0140   A0.   0. 1000.1  010i
10 00 0.1.010  700  0001. Cd-.d1t00        000900.17 aoodo (o... -04.0                  001  0011=20..
1000004 of 004.) .01.) oo 040)1. .o1 oo. .0r.1.0t. (o... 00000  0.1
0000000.).  Aoooo4-.0            i 9010000   -hk   -UTo  L. 000.4 -              A0OC
p0000 d0000090400  P=10  0010t.1 1961-41. 1970. .04 1979 4000.               7.0011.0. 0r00   (t00.0.01.  - 11000.l-1Iy  ootoo 90000.1011.
0000.000 00000   0000  .000 10olo                       - l.p O..d f0.                  0.00  00000  001      10701d 0.0.001011.  wo00oo  o000  o..
----v .901010t of 000 1f01 0090110   010001 00007   0 00900                           000010  0090L00100 of -11 000. 0001010100  10 0.00000.0.0000
p.o by.  A.011.01. ooppILi.0-wp0:o  4000.0l pood-to0. Ipot. 10..                     00  Oow.ob.0; 1960. 1970 .01 1979 d.00.
000_00g  -A1 .00.8  10 .0000. 000       li 009110=." 00101 f00. 0.01.               F-A4..I89.rc000  - 0mb   I..f.1000  00 M0  P---0.". of -t0011.0b  foo..
900.t0100.04 1 food p-ddO.Og. - oO.. 10 0:0:000:0.. 0.01-                           A00r010.00(oo-to   - 00. 0ted Lo. 1 f-.o.. fo-o- -ti. b-og -.1
mOt 000  010000  by 0A0 b0.01 00 9070101081.0  -00. 000  -000  00-c10)10                         P .. poMtod of Mtol 100   f..0.0. ; 1960. 1970 -01 1979 400.
020t00  0.000 h       -1.1.  -ft.-000   t-ptede., 00d7 0014000   . 00Ii.    (Wooo.o   - 1.0.0 00-. 10 0410.   t0000000                            100000r0
001 Me 410-.1t.0. of pp.9.1010. .d10100  10 90000  000 00000. 0100000000, 000000 -d 0P.  90000000p of 0001 1.000 0P00; 1960.
0 ...00.1d 100;1941-4-1. 1970. -01 1977 d.00.                                         1970 .0d 1979 4000.
'_ldt 0011     I,ol of Peotol  (to     P.O  "I0   - 0000.10..   0 .00.00  P.. 0P.010   1001.00.00  R.0. (0000-1 - 0:001. -..1.    mob..   - looO.1.o1.o 0
00.-'917 of fool p.o 40. 9.t.0.117 of food 10 4.01.0  000000                            tiiy  . ..       .. 0017  00   0  0i001  0  :01 . 01- 0 ., -d 0mI L"h.. f-o0-
qOfddlont  f00 011 00.0000  00t00110" by USDA P..0024. Lo.1                          9000000-00  of M.00. -o. .011m f      po9 .l.sl.0off 21I oao  -.p-t.0101;
F                               0~~~~~~~110... of 60 teddd' .1  --L0 Pelto1  p.o 4.y -  20 join  f1 .1.01 -01960. 1970. 00  1979 400. 20000 0.0 b000  0. 17.. po0tl.lpoOO. 0000
0.1.0 9P-_01. of khIo  10 p-  W-Id1 00 00100190000g..T 2..o0-4-                       001.f000t0 080-00.000.00   00h. pd.L.1010.   d100g 0100 t0l.W
I_             0010.00000.0   75 Eem  of .-Io poo-ol  -  23 Vm  Of               f.. 0001.t0  000 000 00020.1  000
W..10.1d  S_T I0000  00   00000  t ,0     -d1. p000.0. by 74A  1  0Id t 010 Wed000 0. .4.. Atli - 0.010 of 9.9.10000 in.  11 -d 61  W
0004  oo 10.0;  946, 090.M17740.0   t0.000011.M. 00,..
00001f. 0000101  004 p.loo  10 pm  P.- 407; 1961.653. 1970 000 1977.4000.
(0114 (0.0Kp 1104)9000.110  Mt, (to- tb...00     - A-.1 d-th. p00 000..0d 10            ko-0o100.. .i   bo)1  .o                          24  - 20o.100  by o0l0
00 6.0:00: 1960.9601971?o                         d M 1979bbod.
ino- ol f   0o-t    000000.10  .00.1f00. .00-1.0
000 00 00001. (000.1. 00000.e 004 oootlIt1.0.110000.00100d000pi-0-I1.L0000040010.
t.,0 0.pply (0100  0000   000. 000   0  .00010000000t00dOO10Oloo.ooo0:0071.00100. 09 00000bl.0. i   0.0 
f0.0.1  o- .0W.01 t0 100otd 000 0000 -0200  g.000  floomh*.000 y00.7P-00- 1.,1 000  tI                     .o to  00.0  .0    1-1 ..  10 =000.00
40.00..       -, p d 0 4.OOpotboo0  900 o-f 0.  40   0  0.00 Lh
PiO  0   000  (00001  000.P tMg. i   00)000  by d0.000 -0 flOO.1.d
.010 t0..0    by -.-0-00...0         0000 - -0 -pfIt p0000*~0  01d .1:                                                  Oo.o4        10.01 00. 3101h0o
1.0 o.: t1..o..                                                                                                           A-0n. 01701. 004 P-Jb0t00    D.
000.001. to P0.11n    Oo.2.1oo41.401by Amoo .0 00-0000  poyo-                                                                M"? 1981
-0010000 000.10 P0000.  - 70.10000_1-.00000  -do  00 9000000



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
DOMINICA: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Average Annual
Actual                       Prel.   Growth Rate         Actual         Prel.
1976          1977          1978          1979         1980       1976-80      1976      1979     1980
National Accounts                                     Current US$ million                                                      As percentage of GDP
Gross Domestic Product                       26.9           35.8          42.9          45.4          54.7        1.3        100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports of Goods - NFS                       19.1          22.2           29.3          40.3          55.0        ...         71.0     88.8    100.5
Exports of Goods - NFS                       13.6           15.0          19.7          19.5          16.1        ...         50.6     43.0       29.4
Consumption                                  25.3          35.7          44.3           52.8          75.1        ...         94.0    116.3    137.3
Investment                                    7.1           7.3           8.2           13.4          18.5       ...         26.4      29.5       33.6
Domestic Savings                              1.6            0.1         -1.4           -7.4         -20.4        ...          5.9    -16.3      -37.3
Merchandise Trade                                     Current US$ million                                                    As percentage of total
Isports (C.I.F.)
Consumer Goods                              7.1           7.7          10.2           7.3           13.6                   37.4      32.9      28.8
Intermediate goods (excl. fuels)            2.8           3.6           4.0           3.5           8.1                    14.7      15.8      17.2
Fuels and Lubricants                        1.4           1.4           1.6           1.4           3.8                     7.4       6.3       8.0
Capital Goode                               1.8           2.6           4.6           4.5            9.0                    9.5      20.3      19.1
Other                                       5.9           6.6           8.1          22.7 a!        18.3 a!                31.0      24.7      26.9
Total                                    19.0          21.9          28.5          39.4 a/       52.8 a!                I10.0    100.0 b/ 100.0 b/
Domestic Exports
Primary Products                           10.3          10.4          13.3           7.0           4.5                    96.3      76.9      48.4
Manufactured Products                       0.3           0.9           1.9           1.7            4.5                    2.8      18.7      48.4
Others                                      0.1           0.4           0.5           0.4           0.3                     0.9       4.4       3.2
Total                                    10.7          11.7          15.7           9.1           9.3                   100.0    100.0    100.0
Public Finances (General Government)                               Fiscal Year c/ at Current US$ million                      As percentage of GDP
1975/76       1976/77       1977/78       1978/79       1979/80   80/81          1976      1979     1980
Current Revenue                               6.6            9.2         10.4          11.1           13.3      20.1         29.4      26.7      30.3
Current Expenditure                           8.1          10.0          13.6          12.9          20.9       25.0         33.6      37.2      41.9
Current Account Savings                      -1.5          -0.8          -3.2          -1.8          -1.6       -4.9         -4.2    -10.5    -11.6
Budgetary Foreign Grants                      1.8            1.2           2.7          3.3            2.2        4.6         6.0      11.2      10.0
Capital Receipts d/                           1.1           1.7           1.6            3.1           0         5.5          5.2      10.0      11.0
Capital Expenditure                           1.8           3.2           3.4           4.5           4.4        8.7          9.3      12.0      14.0
Overall Balance                              -0.4          -1.1          -2.3          +0.1          ,7         -3.5         -2.3      -1.3      -4.6
Total Employment                                         Thousand                                 % of Total                 Growth Rate
1970          1977          1980          1970          1977          1980        1970-80
Agriculture and Fishing                       6.6           8.0            7.0          35.3          36.4          33.0           0.6
Manufacturing and Construction                1.7           2.1           2.3            9.1           9.5          10.9           3.5
Services                                     10.4          11.9          11.9          55.6          54.1           56.1           1.4
Total/Average                                18.7          22.0          21.2         100.0         100.0         100.0            1.3
... not available
a/  Includes relief imports in 1979 and 1980 estimated at US$10 million and US$5.6 million, respectively; 1979 also includes a US$7.2
million adjustments which was unrecorded due to the hurricane.
b/  Totals used were net of adjustments and relief imports.
c/ Fiscal year begins July 1 and ends June 30.
d/ Include foreign capital grants.
December 1981



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
DMINIICA
Balance of payments, Saterual Assistance and Debt
(U0$ million at current prices)
Actual                             Elt.
1976          1977          1978          1979          190
Somoacy balance of Paynacots
E.port. of goods - NFS                       13.6          11.0          19.7          19.5           16.1
load.                                     11.            1.            15.9            .97
DOmestic                                (10.7)         (11.7)        (15.7)         (9.1)         (9.3)
Re-e.porta                               (0.4)          (0.3)         (0.2)         (0.3)         (0.4)
NFS                                         2.5           3.0           3.8          10.1           6.4
Travel                                   (2.5)          (3.0)         (3.8)         (3.2)         (3.7)
Other                                      (-)           (-)           (-)          (6.9)         (2.7)
Inports of Goads - NPS                       19.1          22.2          29.3          40.3          55.0
Goods (CIF)                                19.0             9          28. 5         3   a!       $20 a!
NFS                                        0.1            0.3           0.S           0.9           2.2
(US$ million)
Act..l.
.Res.or-e Balcca                             -5.5          -7.2          -9.6         -20.8         -38.9              Exteral Debt and Debt Service            1977       1978       1979        1980
Net Factor Services                           0.2            -           -0.2          -0.1          -0.6              Public Debt
0.U. Internet                            (-0.2)         (-0.3)        (-0.4)        (-0.4)        (-0.9)               Outstanding at end of period            10.6       11.3       14.5       16.4
/Oattanding at beginning of
Correct Transfers.-                           2.9           4.2           6.9          12.0           11.9                 period                                  8.7       10.6       11.3       14.5
Debt service                                0.3       0.5         0.4        0.9
Correct Acco-nt Balance                      -2.4          -3.0          -2.9          -8.9          ;-7.6              IAterest et Poblic  ebt                     -        0.1          -        0.5
Amertication                          ~~~~       ~~~~       ~~~0.4  0.4  0.4
Net Public Oisborceme-t_                      1.5           2.0           1.1           0.6            2.1
Disb r ementn                               2.3           2.0           1.1           0.6           2.1             Debt Service Ratio                          2.0        2.5        2.1        5.6
A..ctication                               0.8                           -                    -
IBRD  ahare is public debt (2)               -          -          -          -
IBD share i. debt cervice (2)
Capital Gra ts                                1.3           1.5           2.3           5.4
Reliof i=port coa-terpa-t                      -             -             -           10.0
Commercial BOnos                             -0.0          -0.1           0.4          -7.2           6.7
Private Capital and Errors and
O.issio.s                                 -0.1          -0.7          -0.5          -3.4            6.4
SDR Alleeati-n                                 -             -             -            0.3           0.3
Change in Net Internatiosel                   0.5           0.3          -0.4           3.2          -0.5
Rgaerves (- - increase)
e/  Inlode. relief imp-cts, ia 1979, estimated at US510.0  illio  and US$5.6 ailli.n in 1980.
bI Includes external budgetary aid.
D.caber 1981



- 24 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DOMINICA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans as of September 30, 1981
None
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of September 30, 1981
None
C. Projects in Execution
None



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
DOMINICA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project              five months
(b)  Preparation                               Government and IDA
(c)  Identification Mission                    June 1981
(d)  Appraisal mission                         October/November 1981
(e)  Negotiations                              February 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness             June 1982
Section II: Special Implementation Action
In order to provide experience in the technical and institutional
aspects of road maintenance programs to the CDB, which will be involved in
the Road Program concurrently with IDA, joint IDA/CDB supervision missions
would be mounted (para. 61).
Section III: Special Conditions of the project
(a)       Hire fund charges will be revised annually and set to ensure cost
recovery (para. 36).
(b)       The Government will establish by September 30, 1983 a Steering
Committee comprising representatives of MCWT, including staff of
the Program Management Unit, and financing agencies, with terms
of reference satisfactory-to Association (para. 41(b)).
(c)       The Government will submit by June 30, 1983 for IDA's review and
comment, the economic evaluation of the 35km of roads tentatively
included in the Program, pending establishment of the economic
benefits from integrated rural development projects proposed for
the areas of influence of those roads (para. 43).
(d)       The Government will ensure that maintenance funds are approved
and released in a timely manner and will submit by February 1,
1983, and in each year of the Program period thereafter, before
presenting the annual budget to Parliament, detailed estimates of
the maintenance budget for IDA's review and comment (para. 44).



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)       The Government will ensure that the elements of the Program would
have priority over other capital investments for roads (para.
45).
(f)       Contracts for rehabilitation works under the project would be
signed only after the intensive pavement patching and drainage
restoration have been completed on at least 70% of the road in
question (para. 50).
(g)       The Government will submit by December 31, 1982, for IDA's review
and comment, an analysis of the availability and utilization of
MCWT's fleet of road maintenance equipment, together with pro-
posed annual targets for such indices (para. 60).
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness:   Establishment of the Program
Management Unit, contracting of the technical assistance consultant ser-
vices and appointment of three of the four counterpart staff (paras. 41(b),
57).
Special Condition of Disbursement: An agreed financing plan for the road
rehabilitation component (para. 56).



;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CrP-<,H 5405
-^O5,;G!g~ ~~~~~~* &, '                                                         o  -W
I   \V -A5@t   <    84 fa   I~                              ~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  SUwCo  
0                 X t) 119                           ooot    6
eu a l  s,1S ( eUsa4!i4adu l0d-
oaoo,'
oooj
~~                          ooos~~~~~
Hinow j  l? \   H&sjI 80d
. _.___ ) =.                -                   K              -<   /
D3rOJd NOIviniqVltHM (NV' JDNVNJiNIVW OVON
V:)INIWQOC
L86L 8a9W3D9G
V79[9 (C8]                             _



