                          PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                                   APPRAISAL STAGE
                                                                                      09/21/2012
                                                                             Report No.: AB7139
Operation Name                          TAJIKISTAN PDPG 6
Region                                  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                                 Tajikistan
Sector                                  Primary education (25%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                                        sector (25%); Aviation (24%);General finance sector (14%);Public
                                        administration- Information and communications (12%)
Operation ID                            P126042
Lending Instrument                      Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                             Government of Tajikistan
Implementing Agency
                                        Ministry of Finance
                                        Ag Street 3
                                        Dushanbe
                                        Tajikistan
                                        Tel: (992-372) 211-417 Fax: (992-372) 221-3329
                                        minfin@tojikiston.com
Date PID Prepared                       September 21, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal             September 21, 2012
Estimated Date of Board Approval        October 30, 2012
Corporate Review Decision               Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to proceed
                                        with the preparation of the operation.

        Country and Sector Background
Tajikistan’s economy grew at an average of 8.6 percent per year during 2000-2008, but was adversely
impacted by the 2008-09 global economic recession through a sharp fall in remittances and a decline in
exports of cotton and aluminum. Inflows of remittances, which had grown fivefold in 2004-2008,
declined from $2.3 billion in 2008 (equivalent to 45 percent of GDP) to $1.6 billion, while export receipts
dropped by almost 13 percent due to lower international prices of cotton and aluminum. According to the
2010 Life in Transition Survey (LITS), 58 percent of households in Tajikistan reported they had been
adversely affected by the crisis. International migration and remittances were among the main
transmission channels: one-third of respondents said they were affected through a reduced flow of
remittances or the return home of household members who used to work abroad. The financial sector was
also adversely affected by the growth slowdown, with non-performing loans in the banking sector rising
to record levels. The disruption of cargo deliveries due to Uzbekistan border closures added to financial
sector difficulties, which in turn led to a fall in credit flows to the private sector.

The government’s fiscal management plan, depreciation of the somoni, and increased support from
development partners helped mitigate the adverse impact of the crisis. Under its fiscal management plan
adopted in response to the crisis, the government revised the 2009 budget to reflect revenue shortfalls. It
increased public spending on the social sectors (education, health, and social protection) and expanded
employment opportunities through social programs such as a cash-for-work scheme and measures to
facilitate entrepreneurship. Additionally, the government restrained nonessential current spending,
including operation and maintenance spending, but excluded essential nondiscretionary expenditures like
wages and salaries, employer contributions and interest payments. On the revenue side, the VAT rate was
reduced from 20 to 18 percent. Greater exchange rate flexibility and depreciation of the somoni served as
an effective shock absorber during the crisis, contributing to improved competitiveness compared to other
countries in the region, and facilitated current account adjustment (Table 1). Higher international prices of
aluminum and cotton were also important contributory factors. Development partners provided increased
external assistance in 2009—grants equivalent to 3.4 percent compared to 1.6 percent of GDP in 2008.
While adversely affected by the global downturn, Tajikistan’s economic growth of 3.9 percent in 2009
was better than most other countries in the region.

Tajikistan’s economy grew by 6.5 percent in 2010, 7.4 percent in 2011, and 7.4 percent in the first half of
2012. For 2012, this growth reflected higher growth in industry (up 12 percent) and in services (up 13.1
percent). The agriculture sector performed well too, expanding by 6.5 percent despite a harsh
winterError! Reference source not found.. Strong growth during the post-crisis period has been
spurred by the rebound in inflows of remittances (equivalent to about 40 percent of GDP in 2011),
reflecting a higher outflow of migrants following the economic recovery in Russia. This in turn has led to
strong growth in the services sector, which accounted for more than one-third of the growth in 2011 and
2012. Imports surged 37 percent in 2011 and the current account balance reverted to an estimated $153m
deficit in 2011 from the $120m surplus the previous year

        Operation Objectives
The PDPG4-6 programmatic development policy grants are central to the World Bank’s FY10-FY13
Tajikistan Country Partnership Strategy, and support its two main objectives to: (a) mitigate the negative
impact of the crisis on poverty and vulnerability in Tajikistan, and (b) pave the way for post-crisis
recovery and sustained growth.

         Rationale for Bank Involvement
In February 2010 the Government of Tajikistan approved its Third Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS 3)
for 2010–2012. Its overarching objective is to promote sustainable strong economic growth and improve
the population’s living standards. The World Bank and other development partners are collaborating
closely through a Joint Country Partnership Strategy to help the government implement PRS 3. PDPG 4–
6 serve as the Bank’s primary vehicle for policy dialogue with the government, and for discussions with
other development partners on how best to align support for the Government’s program. Many
development partners have provided technical assistance and financial support for the PDPG4-6 reform
program. PDPG4 focused mainly on protecting earlier gains in social spending and improving the climate
for private investment, in the face of ongoing global crisis.

PDPG6 supports the economic recovery underway following the 2009 slowdown. As noted above, GDP
growth has recovered to more than 6 percent in 2010 and 2011. Accordingly, the focus of the PDPG
series has shifted from protecting earlier social sector gains to improving the environment for private
sector development and strengthening government effectiveness. PDPG6 supports continued
implementation of health and education financing reforms and ongoing efforts to improve targeting
effectiveness of social assistance. To help spur private sector-led growth, the government has submitted a
new law on public private partnerships to Parliament in August 2012, and has continued expedited
issuance of land-use certificates to farmers. It has introduced a new salary grid in all central government
entities, submitted a new law on public administration to Parliament which was approved in May 2012,
approved the chart of accounts for public institutions, and prepared the 2012 budget based on the new
budget classification. The government has also conducted an energy efficiency audit of TALCO, the
country’s large aluminum smelter, to identify options for reducing its energy use. This will have several
benefits, including reducing production costs and improving access to scarce electricity for other
consumers, particularly in the winter, which is an energy deficit period.
         Tentative financing
Source:                                                                                      ($m.)
International Development Association (IDA)                                                    20
Borrower/Recipient                                                                              0
IBRD                                                                                            0
                                                                            Total              20
        Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The Ministry of Finance is responsible for overall implementation of PDPG6, and for coordinating
actions among other concerned ministries, agencies, and departments, with additional help provided by
the State Advisor of the President of Tajikistan for Economic Policy. The Executive Office of the
President is responsible for implementing the public sector reforms, while various other agencies and line
ministries involved (i.e. NBT, agriculture, energy, and transportation, and labor) are accountable for
implementing the reforms under their responsibility. The State Committee for Investments and State
Property Management is responsible for overseeing policy actions related to streamlining business
regulations. World Bank staff will monitor actions and review progress using the Program Policy Matrix.
An important objective of the PDPG series is to strengthen national monitoring systems to track poverty
and human development outcomes. With the support of a 2-year trust fund financed by DFID, the World
Bank has substantially increased technical assistance provided to the Government to increase in-country
capacity for poverty monitoring and analysis.

       Risks and Risk Mitigation
Successful implementation of the PDPG-supported reform program faces some risks, including (i) general
macroeconomic risks as well as (ii) risks related to poor governance.
        General macroeconomic risks: Slower than projected regional and global recovery could
         undermine projected improvements in growth, fiscal and current account balances, and asset
         quality in the banking sector. These risks are partially mitigated: the government has prepared a
         fiscal policy program identifying expenditures of a more provisional nature that can be cut in
         response to a slowdown, and is taking remedial action to reduce financial sector vulnerability.

        Governance: While Tajikistan has made some progress in improving its governance, many
         public institutions remain very weak. The functional block of the PRS aims at strengthening the
         public administration system through introduction of professional civil service, and improving
         the investment climate by strengthening property rights and reducing the regulatory burden.

         Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
A key objective of the PDPG series is to protect delivery of basic services (health, education, and social
protection), and to support implementation of reforms designed to ensure more equitable resource
allocation across regions. Introduction of partial capitation in primary health care and greater emphasis on
maternal and child care is also expected to have positive equity and gender impacts. The social assistance
pilot supported by the series is expected to help the government design and eventually scale-up an
improved social assistance program nationwide. This program will use refined targeting mechanisms to
channel resources to needy households. According to official statistics, agriculture accounts for more than
half of total employment. In the medium term, strengthening farmers’ rights to land and improving access
to inputs is likely to lead to greater agricultural profitability, reduced production risk, and lower rural
poverty. More reliable energy services will help promote growth. Similarly, poor households and women
are also more likely to benefit from efforts to improve the business environment and reduce the regulatory
burden: for example, the time needed to register a business in Tajikistan is higher for women than men.
The new PPP law is expected to help spur private investment and growth. Similarly, more reliable energy
services will help promote growth—essential for poverty reduction. Improved billing and collection in the
energy has helped establish a more equitable system, with electricity tariffs in Tajikistan continuing to be
quite low in relation to other comparator countries. There is no expected poverty or social impact from
implementing performance appraisal scheme or from introduction of the law on public administration
(neither of these envisages lay-off of public sector employees). An improved incentive framework for
service providers is expected to have a positive impact on public service delivery. An important objective
of the program is to strengthen national monitoring systems to track poverty and human development
outcomes. With the support of a 2-year trust fund financed by DFID, the World Bank has substantially
increased technical assistance provided to the government.
Policy reforms supported by PDPG6 are not expected to have adverse impacts on the environment and
natural resources. The measures supported by PDPG6 are primarily geared at enhancing the efficiency
and effectiveness of spending in the social sectors, strengthening government effectiveness, and helping
to pave the way for post-crisis recovery and growth. Positive impacts on the environment are expected
through measures such as farmland restructuring. The PDPG series supports farmland restructuring,
whereby larger government-directed farms are being broken down into smaller family farms. The tenure
security associated with the issuance of land use rights to families strengthens the incentive framework
for sustainable natural resource management and empowers the families to have more control over farm
management. The program of reform of agriculture for 2012-2020 recently approved by the government
is supported by a 22-point action plan to help realize its implementation. Envisaged actions, many of
which are already underway, include several which are expected to reduce environmental degradation and
promote more efficient use of natural resources. These include raising public awareness on measures to
prevent degradation of natural resources, development of a draft law on pastures, improved cropping
patterns, as well as development of proposals for commercialization of promising environmentally
friendly energy-efficient technologies in the agricultural sector.

        Contact point

Salman Zaidi
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: +7(727) 2980-580. Ext 224      Fax: +7(727) 2980-581
Email: Szaidi5@worldbank.org
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD)

        For more information contact:
The Info Shop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500             Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
