                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                      April 3rd, 2012
                                                                          Report No.: AB6926

Operation Name                             Tajikistan PDPG6
Region                                     Europe and Central Asia
Country                                    Tajikistan
Sector                                     Primary education (25%); General agriculture, fishing
                                           and forestry sector (25%); Aviation (24%); General
                                           finance sector (14%); Public administration- Information
                                           and communications (12%)
Operation ID                               P126042
Lending Instrument                         Development Policy lending
Borrower(s)                                Republic of Tajikistan
                                           Presidential Administration
                                           80 Rudaki Avenue
                                           Dushanbe 734023
                                           Tajikistan
                                           Tel: 992 37 221 60 26         Fax: 992 37 221 33 29
                                           Min_fin@tojikiston.com
Implementing Agency                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Date PID Prepared                          April 3, 2012
Estimated Date of Appraisal                June 25, 2012
Estimated Date of Board Approval           September 11, 2012

      Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement
      The envisaged sixth Programmatic Development Policy Grant (PDPG6) in the amount of US$ 15
      million is the last in a programmatic series of three operations for the Republic of Tajikistan. This
      series, building on the earlier PDPG1-3, is central to the Bank’s engagement in Tajikistan, as
      envisaged in the FY10-13 Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board of Directors in
      May 2010. It supports the government’s two-pronged strategy to mitigate the impact of the global
      crisis and to pave the way for post-crisis recovery and sustained growth.

      Tajikistan’s economy was adversely affected by the 2009 global economic crisis, but has
      recovered during the past two years. Growth decelerated to 3.9 percent in 2009 due to lower
      export demand and a decline in remittances. The government responded to these unfavorable
      developments by facilitating external adjustment through exchange rate flexibility, and by
      increasing public spending under its anti-crisis action plan to protect critical expenditures and by
      continuing reforms. GDP growth recovered to 6.5 percent in 2010, and rose further to 7.4 percent
      in 2011. Economic activity in the post-crisis period was correlated with the pickup in remittances,
      which rebounded sharply in the past two years, reaching an estimated 40 percent of GDP in 2011.

      Proposed Objective(s)
      The PDPG4-6 programmatic development policy grants are central to the World Bank’s FY10-
      FY13 Tajikistan Country Partnership Strategy, and support its two main objectives to: (a)
      mitigate the negative impact of the crisis on poverty and vulnerability in Tajikistan, and (b) pave
      the way for post-crisis recovery and sustained growth. The PDPG 4-6 series seeks to (i) protect
social spending and increase its efficiency, (ii) improve the climate for private sector
development and (iii) strengthen government effectiveness.

Preliminary Description
With economic recovery now underway, the main focus of the PDPG4-6 series has shifted from
protecting earlier social sector gains to improving the environment for private sector development
and strengthening government effectiveness. PDPG6 supports continued implementation of
health and education financing reforms and ongoing efforts to improve targeting effectiveness of
social assistance. To help accelerate private sector-led growth, the government plans to submit a
new law on public private partnerships to Parliament, amend the customs code to simplify trade
procedures, continue expedited issuance of land-use certificates to farmers and improve access to
water and other inputs. To help strengthen the financial sector, the government is preparing a
contingency planning framework and an improved prompt remedial action framework. It has
introduced a new salary grid in all central government entities, submitted a new law on public
administration to Parliament, and plans to approve the chart of accounts for public institutions,
and to prepare and execute the 2012 budget based on the new budget classification.

Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects
Poverty and Social Impacts
The PDPG series is expected to have a positive social and poverty reduction impact. A key
objective of the series is to protect delivery of basic services (health, education, and social
protection) and support implementation of reforms designed to ensure more equitable resource
allocation across regions. In the medium term, strengthening farmers’ rights to land and
improving access to inputs is likely to lead to greater agricultural profitability, reduced production
risk, and lower rural poverty. A stronger financial sector will benefit the poor by expanding
access to affordable financial services. More reliable energy services will help promote growth—
essential for poverty reduction. The social assistance pilot supported by the program is expected
to help the government design and eventually scale-up an improved social assistance program
nationwide using refined targeting mechanisms to channel resources to needy households. An
important objective of the program is to strengthen national monitoring systems to track poverty
and human development outcomes. With the support of a 2-year trust fund financed by DFID, the
Bank has substantially increased technical assistance provided to the government to increase in-
country capacity to collect policy-relevant data through integrated multi-topic household surveys,
analyze these data, and utilize the analysis in policy formulation.
Environment Aspects
Country policies supported by the PDPG program are not likely to have strong impacts on
Tajikistan’s environment and natural resources. The measures contemplated under this operation
are primarily geared at enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of spending in the social
sectors, strengthening government effectiveness, and helping to pave the way for post-crisis
recovery and growth. Positive impacts on the environment are expected through measures such as
farmland restructuring. International experience has shown that command-economy approaches
to agriculture and/or insecure tenure contributes to land degradation. The PDPG4-6 operations
support farmland restructuring, whereby larger government-directed farms are being broken
down into smaller family farms. The tenure security associated with the issuance of land use
rights to families strengthens the incentive framework for sustainable natural resource
management and empowers the families to have more control over farm management.
       Tentative financing

Source:                                                     ($m.)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0
International Development Association (IDA)                   15
Borrower/Recipient
IBRD
Others (specifiy)
                                                    Total    15
       Contact point

Contact: Salman Zaidi
Title: Lead Economist
Tel: +7(727) 2980-580. Ext 224
Fax: +7(727) 2980-581
Email: Szaidi5@worldbank.org
Location: Almaty, Kazakhstan (IBRD)

Borrower

Presidential Administration
80 Rudaki Avenue
Dushanbe 734023
Tajikistan
Tel: 992 37 221 60 26       Fax: 992 37 221 33 29
Min_fin@tojikiston.com

       For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
