                     OFFICIAL
                    DOCUMENTS
                                       I

                                     GRANT NUMBER H811-TJ




  Financing Agreement

(Sixth Programmatic Development Policy Financing)


                    between


          REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN


                       and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




       Dated AlC {1- -"         /// , 2012
                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

        Agreement dated A'c            Lti        /`/      2012, entered into between the
REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN ("Recipient") and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (- Association") for the purpose of providing
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The
Association has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the
actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described
in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient's maintenance of an
adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore
hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to
        thirteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
        13,200,000) ("Financing").

2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
       Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03. The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
       Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
       annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is United States Dollars.

                             ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:
        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
                of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
                achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
                shall reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives
                of the Program or any action taken under the Program.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the Association being satisfied
        with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program and with
        the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the Association being
        satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program
        and with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient's Representative is the Minister of Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient's Address is:

        Ministry of Finance
        3, Akademic Rajobovkho Street
        Dushanbe, 734025
        Republic of Tajikistan

                                                          Facsimile:
                                                          (992-372) 213329
6.03.   The Association's Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                      Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                 248423(MCI)                 1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.


AGREED at Dushanbe, Republic of Tajikistan, as of the day and year first above written.


                         REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN


                         By


                                                                  Authortzed Representative

                                                 Name: ,C ct . -/(2                   /t/e-ey it? er( 4,ee
                                                                         .
                                                  Title:                         710 /-    ,   itee e/( 7   e


                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


                         By


                                                                  Authorized Representative

                                                 Name:                       T

                                                   Title:       Lb e e i         7S7 /no i;i01.,C1--
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

A.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient under
the Program include the following:

1.      The Recipient, through Government Resolution No. 536 dated November 2,
        2011, has provided the basis for the introduction of a per-capita formula in
        allocating primary healthcare resources in two new districts.

2.      The Recipient, through Government Resolution No. 422 dated August 29, 2012,
        has submitted to Parliament the Law on Public Private Partnerships.

3.      The Recipient has: (a) issued sixty-seven thousand five hundred seventy-four
        (67,574) land use certificates in accordance with the standards and targets set
        forth in Presidential Decree No. 374 dated July 2, 2009; and (b) adopted, through
        Government Resolution No. 383 dated August 1, 2012, the "Program of Reform
        of Agriculture of the Republic of Tajikistan for 2012-2020" and an action plan
        for its realization.

4.      The Recipient, through Presidential Decree No. 1126 dated August 2, 2011, has
        established a new salary grid for all central government entities to increase
        salaries of government sector employees and bring them closer in line with other
        comparator countries.

5.      The Recipient submitted to Parliament the Public Administration Law, which
        was passed by Parliament on December 21, 2011 and signed by the President on
        April 16, 2012 (Law No. 828), and which clarifies the functions of the executive
        and assigns the development of sectoral policies to ministries and implementation
        and regulatory functions to agencies and services.

6.      The Recipient has: (a) approved the staffing of the Accounts Chamber and
        designated a source of funding for the Accounts Chamber from the state budget
        through Presidential Decree No. 1173 of December 12, 2011; (b) appointed the
        Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Accounts Chamber through
        Presidential Letters No. 23.5/1-19 and No.23.5/1-20, both dated August 6, 2012
        and subsequently confirmed by Parliament in September 2012; (c) established the
        levels of salaries for the staff employed by the Accounts Chamber through
        Presidential Decree No. 1258 of March 30, 2012; and (d) secured premises for
        the offices of the Accounts Chamber.
7.      The Recipient has: (a) adopted the Unified Chart of Accounts, through Internal
        Ministerial Decree No. 40 dated June 13, 2012; and (b) issued the state budget
        using the new administrative budget classification system, through the Law of the
        Republic of Tajikistan on the State Budget for 2012, No. 766 dated November 8,
        2011.

8.      The Recipient has ensured that Barki Tajik and Tajiktransgas have: (a)
        substantially completed their Financial Management Improvement Plans; (b)
        published their 2010 financial reports prepared in compliance with the
        International Financial Reporting System and audited in accordance with
        International Standards on Audit; and (c) commissioned a new billing system to
        improve collection of billed energy.

9.      The Recipient has completed an energy efficiency audit of SUE TALCO on
        August 24, 2012 to identify options for increasing energy efficiency.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
        accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as
        the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out
        in the table below:

                   Allocations                  Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                      (expressed in SDR)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                           13,200,000

         TOTAL AMOUNT                                        13,200,000


C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

        No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the
        Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient,
        and (b) with the adequacy of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposit of Financing Amounts

1.      The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request
        for withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain the
       following two deposit accounts ("Deposit Accounts") on terms and conditions
       satisfactory to the Bank:

       (a)     a deposit account in United States Dollars ("Foreign Currency Deposit
               Account"); and

       (b)     a deposit account in Tajik Somoni ("Local Currency Deposit Account").

2.     All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
       Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account. Upon each deposit of
       an amount of the Financing into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, the
       Recipient shall deposit an equivalent amount into the Local Currency Deposit
       Account. All amounts withdrawn from the Local Currency Deposit Account
       shall be used exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

E.     Audit. The Recipient shall:

1.     have both Deposit Accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
       Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards
       acceptable to the Association;

2,     furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
       (6) months after the final withdrawal from the Deposit Accounts, a certified copy
       of the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
       shall reasonably request, and make such report publicly available in a timely
       fashion and in a manner acceptable to the Association; and

3.     furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit
       Accounts and their audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for
an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association.
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.     Closing Date. The Closing Date is May 31, 2013.
                                      APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.      "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or
                loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
                by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
                (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
                revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
                Recipient:

                         Group             Sub-group             Description of Item
                         112                                     Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                     Tobacco, un-
                                                                 manufactured, tobacco
                                                                 refuse
                          122                                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                 (whether or not containing
                                                                 tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                     Radioactive and associated
                                                                 materials
                         667                                     Pearls, precious and
                                                                 semiprecious stones,
                                                                 unworked or worked
                         718               718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                 thereof; fuel elements
                                                                 (cartridges), non-
                                                                 irradiated, for nuclear
                                                                 reactors
                         728               728.43                Tobacco processing
                                                                 machinery
                         897               897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                 platinum group metals
                                                                 (except watches and watch
                                                                 cases) and goldsmiths' or
                                                                 silversmiths' wares
                                                            (including set gems)
                     971                                    Gold, non-monetary
                                                            (excluding gold ores and
                                                            concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
            which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
            agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
            Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
            United Nations; and

     ff)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
            Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
            action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
            occur.

2.   "Deposit Accounts" means both the Foreign Currency Deposit Account and the
     Local Currency Deposit Account.

3.   - Foreign Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part
     D. I (a) of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

4.   "General Conditions" means the "International Development Association
     General Conditions for Credits and Grants", dated July 31, 2010 with the
     modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

5.   - Local Currency Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Part D.1(b)
     of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

6.   "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
     promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
     referred to in the letter dated September 25, 2012 from the Recipient to the
     Association declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the
     Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the
     Program during its execution.
7.      - Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article Il are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4,09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
        above) is modified to read as follows:

                "Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                        (c)       The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
                under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient
                shall enable the Association's representatives to examine such records."

6.      Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
        read as follows:

                "Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                        (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing
                Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by
                the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under
                the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
                Financing."
7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
            follows:

            "'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement."

     (b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            `Program' means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made." All references to "Project"
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            "Program".
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
