Report No. PID7313
Project Name                     Malaysia-Education Sector Support...
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Education
Project ID                       MYPE58681
Borrower                         Malaysia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
Education Planning and Research
Division (EPRD)
Level 2, Block J, Pusat Bandar
Damansara, 50604
Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Tel:    60-3-2513-175
Fax:    60-3-2554-960
Date PID Prepared                October 23, 1998
Date Initial PID Updated         February 3, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         November-December 1998
Projected Board Date             March 11, 1999
Background
1.       Country and Sector Background
The Government of Malaysia (GOM) has requested Bank assistance to mitigate the
negative effects of the East Asian economic crisis on education expenditures
and to support GOM's ongoing reforms in the sector. Bank support has been
requested, in particular, to restore many of the proposed programs under the
Seventh Malaysia Plan (1996-2000) which were interrupted or severely
constrained by the crisis and, thus, jeopardizing past gains in the quality of
education services.
GOM has demonstrated impressive improvements in the enrollment ratios of
relevant age groups at all levels of education over the past 35 years.
Universal primary education (UPE) has been a reality since 1990. The ratio for
lower secondary enrollments is now about 82.5%, and for upper secondary 56 %.
The enrollment ratio for tertiary education is about 23% at the polytechnics
and 3.7% at the universities. If students in private and foreign universities
are included, the latter ratio could be double this figure.
Despite these impressive achievements, the education sector still faces a
number of challenges including, inter alia: (a) inequities in access due to
the shortage of infrastructure in remote and sparsely populated regions; (b)
need for improved professional competence of teachers; (c) need for greater
access to high-quality technological education; and (d) inefficiencies in
sector management due to shortages of technical and managerial skills required
to maintain past achievements and achieve future goals. Measures to deal with



these issues have been constrained as a result of the crisis. These adverse
developments need to be addressed in the short-term, but also have medium-term
consequences since they will affect the development of Malaysia's human
capital needed for self-sustaining economic growth.
2.       Objectives
The project development objectives are:
- to mitigate the negative impacts of the economic and financial crisis on
the education sector; and
- to assist in the medium-term economic recovery through the cost-effective
development of technical skills.
3.       Project Benefits
The project will benefit over 40,000 children, largely from economically
disadvantaged backgrounds, through the provision of school and hostel places
and the pilot school-to- work program. Improved quality in basic education
would result from the training and upgrading of about 5,210 teaching staff.
These interventions will help Government to maintain universal primary
education, increase enrollments in secondary education and improve educational
outcomes. The project will also create over 18,000 student places in
polytechnics and provide over 1000 teaching staff with improved skills and
training. These staff and students will be able to maximize the productivity
of the large public and private investments in knowledge-based industries to
help in the medium-term economic recovery. The sector wide management support
would improve the effectiveness and professionalism of staff in the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and domestic universities. The entire education sector
will also benefit from more efficient and modern management methods. The
construction activities under the project will have domestic multiplier
effects which will also assist in the economic recovery.
4.       Project Risks
The project risks are minimal. One risk is that public expenditures on
education erodes further during the project period. Another risk is possible
implementation delays and disbursement lags leading to delays in project
completion.
5.       Description
The project has three main components: 1) Improving access to and the quality
of basic education; 2) Expanding access and improving the quality and
relevance of polytechnic education; and 3) Institutional strengthening. The
project would support the following activities:
Basic Education -- (1) construction and equipment of schools, staff housing
and       student hostels, primarily in states which are lagging behind in
economic development, education achievement and basic school infrastructure;
and (2) staff development including teacher training and upgrading and
training for a pilot school-to work program.
Polytechnic Education -- (1) construction and equipping of a new polytechnic
at Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, and upgrading and capacity expansion of six existing
polytechnics; (2) staff and curriculum development; and (3) an enhanced
-2 -



polytechnic planning and management system.
Institutional Strengthening -- (1) an improved Education Management
Information System; (2 ) MOE staff development including short and long-term
programs in selected areas such as program evaluation and monitoring, policy
and data analysis and strategic planning; (3) higher education staff and
institutional development; and (4) strengthening project management.
6.       Financing
The total project cost is estimated to be US$348.2 million. The proposed IBRD
contribution is US$244.4 million and the Government of Malaysia's counterpart
funding is estimated at US$103.8 million.
7.       Implementation
Overall project implementation will be the responsibility of a Project
Coordinating Committee (PCC). MOE's Education Policy and Research Division
(EPRD) will serve as the PCC's secretariat. PCC membership will comprise MOE
departments and divisions which will be responsible for implementing the
different components. EPRD will have responsibility for project coordination,
monitoring and evaluation in cooperation with the other MOE departments and
divisions
8.       Environmental Aspects
Environmental category: C
The project is expected to have no environmental impacts.
9.      Program Objective Categories
Human Resource Development and Institution Building.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 5, 1999.
- 3 -



