Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18890-MA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$244.0 MILLION
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
February 12, 1999
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 8, 1999)
Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit (MYR)
MYR 1= US$ 0.263
US$ 1.00 = MYR 3.8
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEO                District Education Office
DPSD               Development Privatisation and Supply Division (Ministry of Education)
EMIS               Education Management Information System
EPRD               Educational Planning and Research Division
EPU                Economic Planning Unit (Prime Minister's Department)
GOM                Government of Malaysia
HED                Higher Education Department
ISD                Information Systems Division
IT                 Information Technology
ITTHO              Institut Teknologi Tun Hussein Onn
JKR                Jabatan Kerja Raja (Public Works Department)
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOF                Ministry of Finance
NEP                New Economic Policy
PCC                Project Coordination Committee
PMR                Project Management Report
REO                Regional Education Office
SDP                Staff Development Program
RECSAM             Regional Education Center for Science and Mathematics (SEAMEO)
TED                Teacher Education Division
TED                Technical Education Department
TTC                Teacher Training College
UPE                Universal Primary Education
UPST               Universiti Pendidikan Sultan Idris
Vice President:   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:    Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:    Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader:    Rozany R. Deen



MALAYSIA
EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key performance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
3. Benefits and target population                                                   10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                         14
2. Financial                                                                        14
3. Technical                                                                        15
4. Institutional                                                                    15
5. Social                                                                           15
6. Environmental assessment                                                         15
7. Participatory approach                                                           16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   16
2. Critical risks                                                                   16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   17



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                          17
2. Other                                                                             17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  24
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       34
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                           35
Annex 5: Fiscal Sustainability Analysis                                                42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangementsand Financial Management             54
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   61
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                     62
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                63
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          64
MAP(S)
IBRD 30074
IBRD 30093



MALAYSIA
Education Sector Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Operations Division
Date: February 12, 1999                           Team Leader: Rozany R. Deen
Country Manager/Director: Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala    Sector Manager/Director: Alan Ruby
Project ID: 58681                                 Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, ES - Secondary
Education, ET - Higher Education, EV - Vocation/Technical
Education, EY - Other Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data
N Loan  -       O Credit        ] Grant         O Guarantee    R Other (Specify)
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 244.0
Proposed Terms: R To be defined   3 Multicurrency N Single currency
O Standard Variable 1 Fixed         OI LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            3
Years to maturity:               15
Commitment fee:                  0.75%
Service charge                   %
Front end fee on Bank loan       1,00%
Government                                                     118.0            0.0          118.0
IBRD                                                           123.0          121.0         244.0
IDA                                                              0.0            0.0           0.0
Total:                                                         241.0          121.0         362.0
Borrower: Malaysia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Education
Implementing agency(ies):
Ministry of Education
Address: Ministry of Education, Block J, Pusat Bandar Damansara, 50604, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Contact Person: Datuk Ahmad bin Tokimin, Deputy Secretary of Finance and Development.
Tel: 60-3-2513-175                Fax: 60-3-2554-960                Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual 28.5          95.0           025
Cumulative    28.5        123.5       218.5       244.0
Project implementation period: 1999 - 2002
Expected effectiveness date: 06/01/99  Expected closing date:  12/31/2002
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2-



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objectives are:
* to mitigate the negative impacts of the economic and financial crisis on the education sector;
and
* to assist in the medium-term economic recovery through the cost-effective development of
technical skills.
In July 1998, after a five year hiatus in borrowing, the Government of Malaysia (GOM) requested Bank
assistance for the education sector. The support was to help revive the constraints, resulting from the East
Asian economic and financial crisis, in achieving the education sector objectives of the Seventh Malaysia
Plan (1996-2000). These objectives as articulated in the Plan are expanding access to and equity in
education, promoting quality and excellence, and improving the efficiency of sectoral management. It,
thus, became necessary to prepare a project in a very short time period to support the Government's
ongoing reforms and address the negative effects of the economic downturn on the education sector.
The project, as designed, will help GOM maintain past education sector achievements and help realize the
access, quality and efficiency objectives of the Plan. It will help reinstate programs that were cut as a
result of the crisis. The project also supports investments that will help restore economic growth and
confidence in the economy. The project provides funding to the Ministry of Education (MOE's) core
programs in basic education (construction of facilities, teacher training and upgrading and extension of
basic education) so that they can continue with minimal disruption during this period of fiscal stringency.
It will continue to assist Malaysia produce middle-level technical specialists with high skills and
productivity, through assistance to the polytechnic system, in which the Bank has been long involved. Such
skills are necessary for the medium-term recovery. The project will also support institutional
strengthening activities including improved sector management, staff development in domestic universities
and project management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 18812-MA                 Date of latest CAS discussion: March 30, 1999
The CAS is under preparation, jointly with the I1C, and is scheduled for Board presentation in March
1999. The CAS indicates that as a result of the economic crisis the pressure on public expenditures has
intensified following a shift in demand from private to public services, and that the gains made in education
and health services are being adversely affected. These developments in the social sectors are important for
the short-term, but also have medium-term consequences because they are constraining Malaysia's
development of human capital. The latter is the cornerstone of Vision 2020, Malaysia's goal to achieve
developed nation status by that year. The CAS proposes a two pronged approach to assist Malaysia. Its
objectives are to focus on crisis-related as well as medium-term challenges, both in providing support for
the social sectors and for restoring economic growth. The project fully supports the CAS objectives. On
-3-



the first, the project will assist GOM restore priority expenditures for education during this crisis period,
with special emphasis on increased expenditures in the poorer states. This would provide continued access
to high quality education services in the face of increased budgetary pressures. In the medium-term, the
CAS objective is to provide assistance to restore sustainable growth and competitiveness. This would
include the continued strengthening of human capital and enhancing its productivity. The CAS highlights
the need for improved skills in science, mathematics, information technology (IT) and other specialized
expertise for the "knowledge economy". It indicates that under Vision 2020, Malaysia aims to promote
itself as an open, export-oriented economy based on high value-added and efficient manufacturing and
services sectors. This would entail substantial investments in specialist education and technical training.
The project supports this objective by financing training in high priority areas across all levels of the
education sector and, in particular, by increasing access to high quality education in the polytechnics.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background: Malaysia's education development and reforms have, since independence, been characterized
by the Government's efforts to adapt education to national development needs, specifically economic and
human resource development. GOM has invested heavily in education (in 1996, public expenditure for
education was 20% of total public expenditure and 5.0% of GDP) based on the belief that the quality and
efficiency of schools make a difference to educational achievement, and subsequent opportunities for
employment and career development of the student.
The Malaysian school system consists of 6 years of elementary, 3 years of lower secondary, 2 years of
upper secondary, 2 years of post-secondary or pre-university, and 4 years of University education.
Education is not compulsory, and promotion during the first 9 years is automatic. Education is a federal
responsibility, and is centrally administered.
There have been impressive improvements in the enrollment rates of relevant age groups at all levels of
education over the past 35 years. Universal primary education (UPE) has been a reality since 1990. The
rate for lower secondary level rose dramatically from 17.9% to 82.5%, and for upper secondary from
10.2% to 55.8% over the period 1960-1995. The enrollment rate of the relevant age group for
post-secondary education increased from 0.1% to 23.2%, while that for the university level rose from
0.04% to 3.7%. If students in private and foreign universities are included, the tertiary rate could be
double this figure.
Sector Issues: Despite these impressive achievements, there are a number of challenges still facing the
education sector. These are briefly summarized below. Some of the issues have been further exacerbated
by the current economic and financial crisis. The issues are:
(a)    Access to and quality of basic education needs imrprovement: Under the Sixth and Seventh
Malaysia Plans, GOM has been implementing its policy of providing eleven years of basic education to all.
Results have been encouraging, with impressive improvements in enrollment ratios, particularly at the
secondary level as indicated in the above paragraph. However, these figures hide inequities in access:
enrollment rates in remote and sparsely populated regions (Sabah and Sarawak, in particular) continue to
lag behind those of the more urbanized, developed areas. One issue is the shortage of infrastructure (school
buildings, hostels, staff housing) in underserved areas. Another issue is inefficiencies in the delivery
system. Increased emphasis needs to be placed on qualitative aspects such as the professional competence
of teachers, curricula that are relevant, and effective use of technology and multimedia in service delivery.
In particular, there is an important residual of secondary school teachers whose educational qualifications
need to be upgraded to a university degree. The GOM intends to make these teachers fully qualified by
-4-



2004 through a special degree program. In addition, new curricula need to be introduced to make the
"school to work" transition smooth for students who will be joining the workforce after graduation from
upper secondary school.
(b)   Investments in secondary technical and vocational education requires rationalization: GOM is
developing a more selective approach to public investments in technical education and vocational training
through an ongoing program to convert MOE-operated vocational schools into secondary technical schools.
This program is supported by the ADB. In addition to this structural change, external efficiencies of the
secondary technical schools need to be improved, training programs need to more closely respond to market
demand, and private sector contribution to the development, operation and financing of these schools needs
to be promoted. GOM is looking at ways to accelerate employer participation through new policies and*
programs such as the Time Sector Privatization Program and the Human Resource Development Fund, two
initiatives designed to provide employers with opportunities to contribute. Such employer input will also
partly deflect the high cost of vocational and technical education and training.
(c)    Access to high-quality technological education needs to be increased: The polytechnic system
is designed to provide certificate and diploma-level training in technical and commercial specializations. It
has received Bank support since 1982. There are currently 9 polytechnics (6 in operation, 3 under
construction) with plans to build 6 more under the Seventh Malaysia Plan. Total 1998 enrollment was
about 26,000, and output about 6,500 graduates. Demand for graduates is outstripping supply, even
during the current economic downturn. GOM has decided to more than double current enrollment capacity
by building the new polytechnics and expanding six older polytechnics, for an additional 28,000 places.
The main issues GOM faces in this expansion program are: (i) mobilizing the financing for this large
investment (one new polytechnic is estimated to cost US$55-65 million, fully equipped); (ii) improving the
operation, management and financing of these institutions (operational and financial autonomy at the
institutional level); (iii) maintaining and/or enhancing the quality of instruction (training of teaching staff,
curriculum development, maintenance/renewal of equipment); and (iv) industrial linkage or increasing
employer participation in the operation and financing of polytechnics (relevance of training, financial
support), and the placement of graduates in jobs.
(d)    Improvements are necessary in sector efficiency and quality: Notwithstandinig the large
numbers of educators and administrators trained in a broad range of skills under the previous Bank
projects, MOE still faces shortages of sophisticated technical and managerial skills required to maintain
past achievements and reach its goal of strengthening institutional management. Previous staff
development programs were biased towards school pedagogy at the expense of system planning and
management and there is a lack of a continuous personnel development program to replenish and/or
augment institutional and departmental staffing needs. In addition, the existing Education Management
Information System (EMIS) has not been as effective as expected. National implementation of the system
has yet to be achieved, and weak horizontal integration of data collected by different divisions has led to
inefficient use of resources and has impeded strategic educational planning and management. Further,
given the liberalization and rapid expansion of university education quality and efficiency improvements
are still needed, including further staff development and policy assessments in areas such as improved
funding mechanisms, quality assurance and IT strategies.
Government Strategy: GOM's three key objectives for the education sector under the Seventh Malaysia
Plan (1996-2000) are:
1.    Promoting quality and excellence in the teaching and learning process through measures such as
improving the delivery system through an increase in the number of experienced and qualified teachers
-5-



(with bachelor degree qualification) particularly in rural schools; and fnancial assistance and opportunities
for teachers to pursue studies at the diploma, graduate and post-graduate level in local institutions or
abroad;
2.     Expanding equitable access to quality education by extending basic education from 9 to 11 years,
thereby increasing primary school enrollment from about 2.8 million to 2.9 million and secondary school
enrollment from about 1.6 million in 1995 to 2.0 million in the year 2000. Measures include the building
of physical facilities (schools, teacher housing and hostels) particularly in rural areas; implementing safety
net programs such as health and nutrition programs, textbooks on loan, and fnancial assistance to the
vulnerable; provision of loans to deserving undergraduates through the Higher Education Loan Fund; and
3.    Improving managerial efficiency in education in the areas of policy analysis, management and
decision-making; implementing a staff development program with strong practical orientation for senior
and middle level managerial and technical personnel in policy making, sectoral planning, monitoring and
evaluation; strengthening skills in the use of IT as management tool; and upgrading project
management/implementation capabilities.
Government strategy and implementation measures were formulated taking into consideration these sector
issues. However, the current economic downturn has necessitated some adjustment in GOM's efforts
toward sustaining and improving the quality of education as planned, since public expenditures on
education decreased to about 18.7% of total public expenditures and 4.3% GDP in 1998 from the pre-crisis
levels. The measures undertaken included cutting MOE's core programs in basic education, reducing the
number of sponsored students and teachers pursuing graduate and post-graduate studies abroad; increasing
the number of students pursuing graduate and post-graduate studies at local institutions causing capacity
constraints; and substantially reducing funding allocations for all staff development programs. One
example of the latter is that the teacher in-service training programs were cut by 72%. Given the long-term
nature of human capital development, and the detrimental effects of a lapse in the ongoing programs, GOM
is trying to preserve the core programs and has requested Bank assistance for this effort.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address some of the sector issues outlined above, in line with Government's strategy and
objectives, taking into account the effects of the regional economic downturn. Support under the project is
being provided to priority activities, some of it focused on poor and underserved areas. The issues
addressed are summarized below, and specific project support is outlined in Section C.
(a)    Improving access to and quality of basic education - the project will provide basic school
infrastructure, with a special emphasis on the poorer states of Sarawak, Terranganu, Kelantan, Sabah and
Pahang. Schools will also be built in Selangor to deal with the problem of overcrowding as a result of
migration from neighbouring towns and emerging problems of urban poverty. The emphasis is on ensuring
that UPE is maintained, meeting the increased secondary enrollment targets, and providing better teaching
and learning environments. A survey by MOE has found that access to basic education has not been
seriously affected by the financial crisis and the need for special measures to prevent drop-outs, as in other
East Asian economies, has not arisen. Quality would be ensured by restoring discontinued or restricted
programs of teacher training and upgrading, and improving instructional materials. The emphasis for the
training programs is on priority subjects like Science, Mathematics, English and IT. The latter, in
particular, for supporting the Smart School Program which promotes teaching and learning through the use
of multi-media.



(b)   Increasing access to high-quality technological education - the project will support the
polytechnic sector to produce better educated and more adaptable workers of the caliber required by
Malaysia's economic and export profile. Capacity expansion concerns are being addressed by restricting
Bank support to only a single new polytechnic being developed in an industrial park in Sabah, where many
large industries like Nippon, Petronas and Telecom Malaysia have purchased land. The project also assists
the upgrading and expansion of six existing polytechnics, since this is considered more cost-effective than
building new institutions. Private sector support is ensured through participation in programs such as the
Time Sector Privatization Program. The project will fnance tracer studies and employment surveys to
plan future enrollnents and outcomes. Support is also being provide to improve the quality of the
programs and planning and management systems; and
(c)    Improving sector efficiency and quality - the project will support the increased professionalism of
a number of MOE staff and a strengthened and an expanded EMIS, with a focus on Sabah and Sarawak
and its integration into the national system. Assistance for staff development and selected policy
assessments for domestic universities will be provided.
The project is not dealing with secondary, technical and vocational education, school health and nutrition
programs or student loan funds as they are being supported by other donors or projects.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Improving access to and the quality of basic education;
2. Expanding access and improving the quality and relevance of polytechnic education; and
3. Institutional Strengthening.
Component 1: Basic Education
The objective is to support government's policy of expanding basic education from 9 to 11 years, through a
program of capacity expansion and quality improvements by helping restore programs that have been cut
as a result of the economic crisis. Project support will be for:
1.1 Capacity Expansion:
* Construction and equipment of schools, staff housing, and student hostels primarily in states which
are lagging behind in economic development, education achievement and basic school
infrastructure, viz., Sarawak, Sabah, Kelantan, Terengganu and Pahang and Selangor.
1.2 StaffDevelopment:
Teacher training and upgrading at various levels, solely in areas of priority, as follows:
*   Short-term in-service training programs for primary and secondary teachers in priority subjects
such as Mathematics, Science, English, and Information Technology (IT), and workplace training
and skills for a pilot school to work program; and
* Upgrading of secondary teachers from diploma to University degree level.
-7-



Component 2: Polytechnic Education
The objective is to increase the enrollment capacity of the polytechnic system and enhance the quality and
relevance of training programs. This objective continues Bank support provided by the ongoing
Polytechnic Development Project (Loan 3 57 1-MA). The project will support the following activities:
2.1 Capacity Expansion:
*  Construction and equipping of a new polytechnic at Kota Kinabalu, Sabah; and
*  Upgrading and capacity expansion of six existing polytechnics.
2.2 Staff and Curriculum Development:
* Training of polytechnic staff in a variety of domestic training programs conducted at the Institut
Teknologi Tun Hussein Onn (ITTHO) and other domestic institutions; and
*  Curriculum and training materials development.
2.3 Enhanced Polytechnic Planning and Management System:
*  Annual conduct of tracer studies and employer surveys for all polytechnics;
*  Introduction of the first phase of the Polytechnic Management Information System;
*  Preparation of Master Development Plans for the six polytechnics to be upgraded; and
-  Quality management and efficiency of polytechnic operations, including analysis of training costs
and utilization of resources, and implementation of quality management systems (MS ISO 9000).
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening
The objective is to support MOE's institutional development plans, which are being constrained due to the
budget cuts and could effect the quality of education and efficiencies in sectoral management. The project
will support:
3.1 EMIS
* Hardware, software , training and technical assistance to enable the system to be implemented
nationally, be Y2K compliant, and improve decision making through the integration of multiple
data bases. Special emphasis would be on support for Sabah and Sarawak.
3.2 MOE Staff Development
*  Staff Development (short and long term programs) in selected areas such as program evaluation
and monitoring; policy and data analysis and strategic planning.
3.3 Higher Education Staff and Institutional Development
*   Staff development program for higher education institutions to improve quality and increase
competencies in specialized areas. Policy assessments of funding methodologies, quality assurance
and information strategies for universities will support institutional development.
3.4 Project Management
*   Specialist assistance for MOE staff in positions directly linked with project planning,
implementation and financial management.
-8-



1. Basic Education                 EP - Prirnary      145.8       40.5      87.6      60.1
Education
2. Polytechnic Education           EV - Vocational    197.3       54.9     138.6       70.2
Education &
Training
3. Institutional Strengthening     EY - Other           16.5       4.6       15.4      93.3
Education
Total Project Costs                   359.6       99.3     241.6       67.2
Front-end fee                     2.4        0.7       2.4      100.0
Total Financing Required                    362.0      100.0     244.0      67.4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Extension of basic education from 9 to 11 years: This policy has been gradually implemented since the
Sixth Malaysia Plan. MOE is now focusing on reforming the curricula and training the teachers at this
level so that education in the last 2 years will enable a smoother "school-to-work transition" for students
who will leave the school system after Grade 11. This program is being supported and evaluated for
further replication.
Improving the Polytechnic Education System: To alleviate concerns on excessive capacity expansion,
institutional programming and required curriculum changes and industry linkages, a number of reform
measures are being sought. These include the re-examination of design briefs and development of
long-term academic and physical development plans for phased upgrading of existing polytechnics that take
into account demand considerations and changes in programs due to advancing technology and
specializations. There will be continued emphasis on tracer studies and surveys of employers as a basis for
planning courses and enrollments in line with outcomes and costs. Decentralization of the responsibilities of
the polytechnics as they continue to expand is also being encouraged.
Increased efficiency in allocating public funds to universities and other policy assessments: Although
there is no major support for the higher education sector, a number of policy assessments are included. The
key one is on resource allocation. This will provide an in-depth review of the unit cost of university studies,
in different disciplines and different universities. Based on these figures a more objective and transparent
method of allocating budgetary resources to the universities, e.g., based on their outputs, will be devised. A
study to review these issues, including training programs for university officials in charge of financial
management, is included under the project.
-9-



3. Benefits and target population:
Direct beneficiaries will be the present and future students and teachers/lecturers at institutions where
project activities take place, ranging from construction activities and equipment provision to staff and
teacher training. Staff at MOE will also benefit. It is estimated that the basic education component would
benefit about 45,000 children through the school and hostel construction, and the pilot school to work
program. Improved quality in basic education would result from the training and upgrading of about 5210
staff. The polytechnic component will benefit approximately 18,600 students by providing them improved
access to post secondary technical training and at least 1,130 teaching staff with improved skills and
training. The staff and students will be able to maximize the productivity of the large public and private
investments in knowledge-based industries to help in the economic recovery. The sector wide management
support would improve the effectiveness and professionalism of at least 336 staff from MOE and the
domestic universities. The entire education sector will benefit from more efficient and modem management
methods.
Indirectly, beneficiaries include the whole nation since its human capital, the most important economic and
development resource, would have acquired new knowledge and skills which will enable the country to
move closer to its goal of being at the forefront of global science and technology in the next century.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
General oversight of project implementation will be the responsibility of a Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC), chaired by the Deputy Secretary-General (Finance and Development) of MOE. MOE's Education
Policy and Research Division (EPRD) will serve as the PCC's secretariat. PCC membership will comprise
MOE departments and divisions which will be responsible for implementing the different components
(Technical Education Department (TED); Teacher Education Division (TED); Development, Privatization
and Supply Division (DPSD); Higher Education Department; and the Prime Minister's Department's
Economic Planning Unit (EPU) and Implementation and Coordination Unit (ICU).
DPSD, which is responsible for preparing the school construction component, will also be in charge of
planning and implementing all procurement activities, project accounting and disbursements. DPSD
project management procedures, and its performance in past Bank projects, have been satisfactory. A
fimancial management assessment was carried out at DPSD. The objective of the review was to determine
whether it has an adequate financial management system in place and, based on the findings, to assess the
readiness of the project to implement Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements under the
Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
The assessment revealed a financial management system based on a branch accounting system controlled
by the Accountant General (AG), which meets the Bank's requirements. In particular, the following
characteristics are present: a) experienced accounting staff involved with an on-going Bank project; b) clear
accounting instructions, standardized procedures and forms which facilitate accurate and timely data input
and processing; c) strong internal controls which include rigorous segregation of duties with clear
instructions for authorization and approval of invoices, control over bank accounts and custody of assets;
d) a Government accounting system which includes monthly reporting; and e) an independent National
Audit Department, headed by a professionally qualified Auditor General, which employs staff who are
adequately trained to carry out the audit function in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Thus, the project was assessed as being ready to implement PMR based disbursements under LACI.
However, given the need for expediency resulting from the short time-frame of the project, an experienced
-10-



accountant and a procurement specialist will be appointed on a full-time basis to strengthen the accounting
and procurement functions within DPSD.
EPRD, as the PCC Secretariat, will have overall responsibility for project coordination and monitoring and
evaluation in cooperation with the other MOE departments and divisions. Each MOE department and
division has identified the key performance indicators based on the objectives of individual components.
EPRD has prepared the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) with input from the other MOE departments
and divisions.
Project monitoring will be aided by the EMIS, being strengthened by the project, under the direction of
EPRD. Primary responsibility for monitoring project progress and evaluation of achievements based on
stated targets (e.g., numbers of classrooms built, students enrolled and graduated, staff trained, teaching
materials distributed, etc.) will rest with the implernentation units carrying out the project activities of the
various project components and will be reported in the quarterly PMRs. In addition, a detailed annual
project implementation progress report (by October 1 of each year) and a summary progress report (by
May I of each year), including qualitative assessments, will be prepared based on the PIPs of the various
components and submitted to EPRD. An overview of implementation progress will be prepared by EPRD
for submission to the PCC. On the PCC's approval, the progress reports will be submitted to the Bank.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
a.    In light of the request from GOM for quick-disbursing assistance, the option of a Sector
Adjustment Loan was considered. It was concluded that given the need for a substantial updating of the
Bank's knowledge of the education sector,-rather than design an adjustment operation with conditionalities
and tranches, it would be preferable to design the operation as a Specific Investment Loan building upon
GOM's ongoing reforms and programs in the education sector.
b.    The GOM's request for Bank fmancing of two other higher education components - a School of
Dentistry at the Universiti Sains Malaysia, and a library complexfor Universiti Pendidkan Sultan Idris
(UPSI) (a newly established university for teacher education), was considered but not included under the
project. It was felt that the School of Dentistry could not be supported within the project's key objectives -
mitigating the negative impact of the economic and financial crisis, and assisting in the medium term
economic recovery - an argument with which the GOM agreed, and this item was dropped from the project.
As for the UPSI library, due to the lack of clear undertakings on a number of issues, including a defined
and rigorous academic development plan, the future size and location of the university and enrollment
plans, this component was also not considered eligible for Bank financing.
c.    The preparation mission had identified two polytechnics for possible Bank financing.
During the pre-appraisal, the Government requested the addition of another polytechnic, increasing the
number to three. After a detailed review, including an assessment of state of readiness of the components,
demand, cost and sustainability issues it was concluded that Bank support was justified for only one
polytechnic and the upgrading of six existing ones. The project design reflects this decision.
-11-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1h:.Seto Issu                            Projot                   (S)RtingsE
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progess (IP)   Objective (DO)
Malaysia
COMPLETED
Basic Education                  First, Second and Third           S            S
Primnary & Secondary
Education
L2685(1986-1992),
L2987 (1988-1992),
L3536 (1993-1996)
University Development           L2887 (1988-1992)                 S            S
Training                         Industrial Training,              S            S
L2145 (1982-1989),
L2601 (1985-1992)
ONGOING
Sector Adjustment Loan           Economic Recovery and Social
Sector Loan
Polytechnic                      Polytechnic Development           S            S
L3571(1993-
Health                           Health                            S            S
L3682 (1994-
PLANNED
Social Sector                    Social Sector Support (Project
ID 60943)
Other development agencies
COMPLETED                        Islamic Development Bank
'85-'88 Islamic Teachers Training  $8,000,000,00
College Project
COMPLETED                        ADB, 1980-1995
TechnicalVocational Ed Project #1-#4 (#1-$20 million
-Technical Education,             #2-$58 million
-Labor Market Analysis,          #3-$72 million
-Strategic Education Reviews      #4-$72 million)
-12-



ONGOING                          Germany
Contract Foreign TAs:
Vocation Training System,
National Occupational Skill Standards
ONGOING                          ADB, 1998-2003
Technical Education Project #5 Loan
No.1596 MAL
PLANNED                          Public Service Department.
ASEAN Comprehensive Human        ASEAN/Japan
Development Program (Scholarships)
POSSIBLE                          Japan (OECF)/ADB
Program currently under discussion
Poverty and Social Protection
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project will support the GOM's education programs under the Seventh Malaysia Plan. The project
reflects lessons learned from the Malaysia education projects in the past, viz.: Primary and Secondary
Education, Polytechnic Development, and Higher Education projects. The review of the Implementation
Completion Reports (ICR), Project Completion Report (PCR) of Malaysia education projects from the
Bank, Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of Operations Evaluation Department, and other
development agencies revealed the following lessons, which the task team has taken into account in
preparing the present operation.
Primary Education, Education Reform, OEP-Precis, Loan No.2685, 2987
From these projects, the Bank learned that the projects' shortcomings stemmed from issues and actions left
unresolved at project design, the seemingly different priorities of the Bank and the Borrower, while the
projects' achievements stemmed mostly from the government's firm commitment to its own educational
goals and programs.
Third Primary and Secondary Education Project, ICR, Loan 3536
The Bank has learned several important lessons: (1) the Bank should carefully review the Government's
commitment and its implementation capacity when complex components and subcomponents are planned in
projects; (2) all programs need to have an in-built evaluation system so that evaluation can be done
concurrently; (3) the need for the Bank to provide adequate supervision to help resolve project management
difficulties, encourage more timely submission of reports and better diagnose and solve problems arising in
more complex components; and (4) where a project contains a combination of civil works and human
development activities, it is important not to reallocate funds to the physical works without ample
justification because this reduces attention to the important institutional goals that may have more far
reaching effects.
Higher Education, PCR, Loan No.288 7, 1988-1992
This project experience has provided several lessons, some of which have been learned from previous
projects: (I) the importance of borrower commitment or "ownership" of the project (which was evident in
-13-



the successful implementation of the two university components that were the borrower's idea as contrasted
with the relative failure of the university management and planning component that was predominantly the
Bank's idea); (2) the value of detailed planning and programming as a basis for each project component to
ensure that it can be implemented within the time and resources intended; and (3) the importance of
building specific manpower training programs and arranging tracer studies of graduates.
Technical/Vocational Education
The experience of ADB's Technical/Vocational Education Project #1-#4, 1980-1995, provided some
lessons: (1) careful site selection and preparation; (2) horizontal coordination between project components;
(3) frequent revision and review of the TVE curriculum and programs to keep pace with rapidly changing
industrial needs; (4) mechanisms to improve school-industry linkages and the placement of graduates; (5)
benefit monitoring and evaluation (BME) as a management tool in the framework of an educational
management information system (EMIS); (6) strengthening Technical Vocational Education teacher
training programs; and (7) enhanced efficiency through strengthened management, cost reduction and cost
recovery.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Project is a direct response to GOM's request for Bank assistance to the education sector, and builds
upon ongoing MOE programs. Both EPU and MOE have attached much importance to the project as can
be seen in their cooperation with the mission and response to information requests. GOM has given its
assurance that sufficient counterpart funds will be allocated to the project. It has also agreed to selection
criteria discussed with the Bank for prioritizing activities in the school construction and polytechnics
components.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
3  In times of budgetary constraints, Bank's involvement will ensure careful prioritization, better
structure and added impetus to promote existing and planned reform measures.
3   Bank's project monitoring methods, including establishment of Monitoring and Evaluation
Indicators and identification of risks, promote a more rigorous and systematic method of tracking
performance during implementation.
i  Bank's international expertise to provide GOM with advice to be incorporated into project design
so as to maximize the impact of the project
*   Bank's ability to provide funding at a critical time.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
* Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
O Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR = %
Not applicable
-14-



Fiscal Impact:
(See under sustainability below)
3. Technical:
The civil works for the basic education component uses standard designs and plans that are generally
applicable in Malaysia. The design of the new polytechnic at Kota Kinabalu, however, deviates in concept
from the conventional design of past polytechnics. In order to prepare a design for the 21 st century, a team
of architects and consultants was sent by the GOM on a study tour to the US and UK before undertaking
the design and their experience is reflected in the design concept e.g. teaching spaces, labs and workshops
are integrated into a single structure and provides for a better learning environment. On the upgrading of
the six polytechnics, although the priorities differ depending on their different ages, locations and histories,
most have an urgent need for additional classrooms and multi-purpose laboratory and workshop space in
order to increase intake. Emphasis is being placed on modular designs which can be adapted to various
uses and building sites.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Although the project involves a number of sub-sectors in MOE, key divisions dealing with the project
have past experience in implementing Bank projects.
b. Project management:
An effective project management structure which balances coordination with efficiency has been
designed. Coordination would be achieved through the establishment of the Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), with membership from all MOE Departments and divisions responsible for specific
components. Efficiency will be achieved by having EPRD, as the PCC Secretariat, responsible for
overall project monitoring and evaluation working closely with DPSD, which will have a key role in
implementation. Both EPRD and DPSD have considerable experience in project management, having
jointly implemented a number of Bank financed projects in the past.
5. Social:
The social impacts of the project are expected to be positive. It will help prevent any major negative social
impacts in the short-run as a result of the cuts in the education budget, and ensure that the quality of
education does not suffer more than necessary. A major portion of the school construction will be in the
states with the greatest share of poor Kelantan (16.3%), Terranganu (15.7%) and Sarawak (7%), and the
new polytechnic will be constructed in Sabah (18% of the poor) (Household Income Survey, 1995).
Unemployment has increased from 2.7% in 1997.to a projected 4-5 % in 1998. The construction sector has
been particularly affected and the construction activities under the project will assist generate employment
and other domestic multiplier effects, besides benefiting the students and teachers.
There is no significant gender gap in the Malaysian education system, particularly in basic education with
female enrollments in the primary and secondary levels being 49% and 51% respectively in 1998.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category 1 A 13 B O C
The project is expected to have no environmental impact.
-15-



7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The key stakeholder's views on the proposed project in respect of its benefits, impacts, implementation
and issues were obtained by GOM through a social assessment. The key stakeholders included
education officials at all levels, lecturers in higher education institutions, teachers in schools and
parents and community leaders. The study found widespread support for the project as it is expected to
bring about educational development at all levels of the education system. It is seen as a balanced
development project, providing both physical and human resource development. Communities and
parents in remote and rural areas will benefit from the construction of new schools and hostels for their
children. Teachers gain incentives through the provision of teachers quarters and also gain from the
continuation of the in-service courses as well as upgrading to improve teaching and learning. MOE
officials and lecturers from the various institutions will also benefit from the staff development
programs. Concerns expressed by stakeholders such as the need for more resources for the short-term
training programs, greater emphasis on IT, Science and Mathematics courses, and to revise the
polytechnic curriculum to give more emphasis to new industrial skills, have all been incorporated into
the project design.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The financial analysis indicates that the sustainability of the project is assured since the estimated recurrent
costs is less than one percent of the 1998 operating budget for education. It is also less than one percent of
projected recurrent costs for education under both low and moderate GNP growth scenarios throughout the
projection period. In terms of financial sustainability the impact of the project on the education operating
budget is negligible. However, about 47% of the total incremental recurrent cost stems from the
polytechnics capacity expansion activities. Thus, the share of expenditures channelled to the polytechnics
would need to increase substantially to ensure their sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
0HSi ~      is                    Risk: Raik    ;  m RI 0  Risk Minim zattQni ''eas'ure
From Outputs to Objective
Decreased Government commitrnent to       N         GOM has placed very high priority on
meeting educational objectives of                   education sector development.
Seventh Malaysia Plan.
Teachers and staff are unwilling to use   M         Emphasis is being placed on the highest
new knowledge and skills learned.                   priority subjects e.g. Science Math and
IT) and teachers are chosen on a
competitive basis.
Design and scope of quality               M         All necessary TA and operational
improvements, particularly in                       support being provided for curriculum
curriculum development, inadequate.                 review.
-16-



From Components to Outputs
Delays in timely availability of         M         A higher cost-sharing ratio as part of
counterpart funds.                                the assistance strategy has minimized
requirements for counterpart funds.
Required funds for first year already
available in the budget.
Correct staff not sent for training      M         A very careful selection process ensures
programs.                                         the correct choice of staff.
Implementation schedules for             M         Bidding process well in hand for first
construction not adhered to.                       year program and will be agreed well
before construction begins for second
phase.
Delays in the employment of necessary    M         Agreements in place that key project
TA for project support.                            support will be hired prior to loan
effectiveness.
Overall Risk Rating                      M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None. The project provides support to an on-going program that has been constrained by budget cuts
resulting from the East Asian financial and economic crisis
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Confirmation that the Accountant General of Malaysia has written procedures and management
guidelines for the Special Account and that these guidelines are disseminated and adopted by the
Ministry of Education.
2. Appointment of a procurement specialist under TOR to be agreed with the Bank. The specialist to
be maintained until project completion.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
1. Review and agree on a program (schools, staff housing and student hostel places) for construction
works to be undertaken from the year 2000, including both site selection and space norms.
Proposed construction program to be furnished to the Bank by May 15, 1999;
2. Appoint a full-time accountant, a full-time project manager, and at least two additional technical
staff (architect and quantity surveyor) by May 15, 1999;
3. Undertake, for each polytechnic, tracer studies of graduates and their employment, including
feedback from employers on employability of graduates, and submit results to the Bank for
information and comment no later than June 30 of each year commencing on June 30, 2001;
4. Submit to the Bank for information and comment, no later than June 30, 2001, the Master
Development Plans for the six polytechnics to be upgraded;
5. Submit a fnal annual staff development program for the following calendar year, specifying staff
to be trained, type of training and the institution by October 1 of each year, commencing
October 1, 1999;
6. Complete policy assessments (resource allocation, quality assurance and IT strategy) for
-17-



improvements in higher education by June 30, 2001 and submit results to the Bank for review and
comment as they are completed;
7. Provide retroactive financing not exceeding $10 million for expenditures incurred for civil works
and consultant services after July 27, 1998;
8. Establish a Special Account not exceeding the equivalent of $48 million; and
9. Undertake an annual review of project implementation progress in October of each year,
commencing on October 1, 1999.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
E 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
EIl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rozany R.                        Alan Ruby                                .        wea
Team Lead                        Sector ManagerlDirector           Co    ManagerlDirector
-18-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Provide support to maintain   - Expenditures on education   - Government report on  Complementary initiative in
high quality social services    meet or exceed pre-crisis  expenditures and trade  place for other social sectors.
during the economic crisis.   level.                  statistics
- ESW work
Improve economic           - GDP and export growth
competitiveness and develop  resume upward trend.
human capital to help restore
and sustain future economic
growth.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To mitigate the negative    - Enrollment rates from base  - MOE Educational Statistics  Risks
impacts of the economic and  year (1998) in schools in  - Review of the Seventh   - Malaysian economy will
financial crisis on the    project states, and institutions Malaysia Plan        continue to be in crisis during
education sector          improved by end of project                             the project period.
(EOP)
2 To assist in the medium-   - % increase in primary school - Tracer study of Polytechnic  - Public expenditures on
term economic recovery by   teachers with improved    graduates                  education further erodes
developing cost-effective  qualifications from teacher  - Employment surveys of    during the implementation
technical skills.         training colleges by EOP.   Polytechnic graduates      period.
- % increase in secondary  - Reports from the EMIS on
school teachers with university school data
(bachelor) degrees by EOP.
- /O improvement in teaching  - Annual Implementation and
practices at EOP on a sample  Progress Reports
assessment basis.
- High employer satisfaction
(as expressed in surveys) of
quality of the polytechnic
graduates.
-19-



- Curriculum development in
all 15 programs under review
completed by EOP.
- % number of polytechnic
teachers and instructors with
increased professional
competencies achieved by the
short-term and upgrading
programs.
- ISO 9000 certification for
the core programs of the
polytechnics in operation by
EOP.
- Study completed and
proposal developed for Higher
Education funding
methodology by target date.
-20-



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Access to and quality of   - All schools and associated   - MOE Educational Statistic  Risks
basic education improved in  facility construction completed - Project supervision reports
priority states and       on schedule by EOP         - Annual, Mid-term and final Decreased government
Government's policy of                               evaluation report         commitment to achieve
expansion of Basic Education - Targeted number of teachers - From tracer studies and  educational objectives of the
from 9 to 11 years supported  completing training annually. employment surveys under the Seventh Malaysian Plan.
during the crisis.                                   project                   - Teachers and staff are
- Completion of study to                             unwilling to use new
evaluate school-to-work                              knowledge and skills learned.
program.                                             - Design and scope of quality
improvements, particularly
curriculum reforms in
polytechnics, inadequate for
necessary changes.
2. Number, quality and    - Targeted numbers of
relevance of Polytechnics  polytechnic instructors
institutions improved.    completing training annually.
- All targeted enrollments
(schools/polytechnics)
achieved by the targeted year.
3. Management capacity of  - Improved coverage and
MOE at all levels improved,  availability of data for Sabah
capacity of higher education  and Sarawak in a largely
institutions strengthened as   integrated national EMIS by
well as that of project   EOP.
management.
- Active use of EMIS for
planning and management as
indicated by % of states
submitting required data to
EPRD by target dates (31
January, 30 June and 31
October).
- Establishment of the EIS by
EOP.
- Recommendations made on
effectiveness and efficiency of
resource allocation and
funding methodology
developed by the MOE.
-21-



- Proposed number of officials
trained in EMIS/EIS training
courses annually.
- Proposed number of MOE
staff trained annually.
-22-



Project Components        i inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Basic Education        US$145.8 Million           - Quarterly progress and  Risks
1.1 Capacity Expansion                              disbursement reports compiled
Construction of schools,                             by PCC (EPRD)             - Delays in timely availability
teachers quarters and student                        - Project supervision report   of counterpart funds.
hostels.                                             - Annual audit report
1.2 Staff Development                                - Mid-term and final      - Correct staff not sent for
Short-term courses and                               evaluation report         training programs.
Teacher upgrading.
- Implementation schedules
for schools and other facility
construction and polytechnics
not adhered to.
2. Polytechnics           US$197.3 Million                                     - Delays in the employment of
2.1 Capacity Extension                                                         the necessary TA for project
Establishment of new                                                           support and studies.
polytechnic and upgrading of
existing polytechnics.
2.2 Staff and Curriculum
Development.
2.3 Enhanced Polytechnic
Planning and Management
Systems.
3. Institutional          US$16.5 Million
Strengthening
4.1 EMIS.
4.2 Graduate Programs (MOE
staff).
4.3 Higher Education Staff
and Institutional
Development.
4.4 Project Management
Support.
-23-



Annex 2: Project Description
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Introduction
Education has always been an integral part of the Government's development policy in Malaysia. The
education sector has been a major instrument for promoting national social, economic and equity
objectives. Malaysia has a unified 6-3-2-2 education system which provides for 6 years of primary, 3
years of lower secondary, 2 years of upper secondary, and 2 years post-secondary (including Form VI,
pre-university and college) education. Tertiary education leading to the bachelor's degree covers 4 years.
Malaysia's relatively well-developed education and training system is the result of consistent policies
backed by continuous and large capital investments in educational infrastructure development at all levels
and supported by commensurate recurrent expenditures over the last four decades. Over a span of 25 years,
(1970-95) educational expenditure averaged 17.3% of total public expenditure and 5.2% of GNP. While
the allocations to primary and secondary education, as a proportion of total educational expenditure, ranged
from 59.4% to 73.2% between 1980 and 1995, the allocations to technical and vocational education have
been relatively small, e.g., only 3% of total educational expenditure in 1995. A more recent development
has been the increasing public sector allocations for higher education.
The emphasis on the importance of education has resulted in universal primary education (UPE) being a
reality since 1990 when the enrollment rate was 99.8%. Over the period 1960-1995, the rate for lower
secondary level rose dramatically from 17.9% to 82.5%, and for upper secondary from 10.2% to 55.8%.'
The enrollment rate of the relevant age group for post-secondary education increased from 0.1% to 23.2%,
while that for the university level rose from 0.04% to 3.7%. If students in private and foreign universities
are included, the tertiary rate could be double this figure.
In 1998, there were 7,130 primary schools with 2.89 million pupils and about 152,000 teachers.
Secondary education offers a comprehensive program covering arts, science and technical subjects. In
1998, there were 1,565 secondary schools with about 1.70 million students and about 102,000 teachers.
There is no significant gender gap in primary and secondary education, and all ethnic groups are adequately
represented at all levels of education
Although Malaysia survived the regional economic shocks of 1997 better than the other East Asian
countries, the impacts of the crisis have deepened in 1998. The sharp reduction in GDP has resulted in
government expenditure cuts across the board, including for education. Many of the proposed programs
under the Seventh Malaysia Plan (1996-2000) for the education sector has been interrupted or severely
constrained, affecting past gains in the quality of services. These priority education programs need to be
continued. In addition, despite the economic crisis, Malaysia's goal of becoming a newly industrialized
country or NIC by 2020 ("Vision 2020") is being maintained. this would require substantial investments
in specialist and technical education, to provide adequate numbers of skilled workers and a quality
workforce. This would be particularly important for the medium term to increase Malaysia's
competitiveness through productivity gains which will play an increasing role as a source of growth in the
future. Bank assistance is now being sought to fill the gaps in the education investment program and to
enable these goals to be realized.
The 1960 estimates for the lower and upper secondary enrollments are from the Department of Statistics, -Estimates of
Inter-Censal Population, Peninsular Malaysia (1950-1970). It may not be strictly comparable with the other data from the
Ministry of Education.
-24-



The Project
As a result of the above, the development objectives of the project are:
* to mitigate the negative impacts of the economic and financial crisis on the education sector; and
* to assist in the medium-term economic recovery by the cost-effective development of technical
skills.
Specifically the Project will be able to revive the slow development in achieving the objectives of expanding
access and equity to education, promoting quality and excellence and improving efficiency of the sectoral
management, caused by the economic crisis.
The project would have three components, as follows:
1. Basic Education - improving access and quality.
2. Polytechnic Education - expanding access and improving quality and relevance.
3. Institutional Strengthening.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$145.8 million
BASIC EDUCATION
The objective of this component is to support the Government's policy of providing 11 years of good
quality basic education to all, through a program of capacity expansion and quality improvements. As
funding for this program under the Seventh Malaysia Plan was substantially cut as a result of the crisis,
Bank financing would help complete this program. Priority is being given to the more under-served areas
where equitable access to education is severely limited and the quality of education needs to be improved.
The component consists of: (i) improved access through the construction of schools, staff housing and
student hostels; and (ii) staff development for quality improvement.
1.1 Capacity Expansion
The interruption of the school construction program has exacerbated the shortage of classrooms, hostels for
rural students, and housing for teachers in rural and remote areas where private accommodation is
unavailable. The program is, thus, largely focused on underserved areas with the following criteria used to
select these areas:
* States that lag behind in term of economic and physical development;
* States with the lowest student academic achievement/performance; and
* States that lack proper basic school infrastructure and need more classrooms and related education
facilities.
Selangor (although a more developed state) have also been included due to the critical need for additional
schools due to migration of people from neighboring towns resulting in some primary and secondary
schools having class sizes over 46 students. The state has also fallen in terms of academic performance.
Assuming an 85% utilization rate of the facilities constructed, it is estimated that as a result of the project
-25-



about 34,000 children would have improved access to schools. The construction of staff houses (600) and
student hostel places (2750) (including furniture and equipment) is proposed in the above states, and
Sabah. Based on the latest 1995 Household Income Survey (HIS), one half of all poor are concentrated in
the states of Kelantan (16.3%), Terengganu (15.7%) and Sabah (18%) and some additional states. A
detailed program for Year 1 has been agreed and the programs for the subsequent year would be agreed
during the annual review of implementation progress. During this review, both the site acquisition and the
liberal space norms in school designs would be discussed, the latter in particular for both efficiency and
cost-saving considerations.
Although the staff houses and student hostel places are located outside the schools to be funded by the
project, their construction is justified since the students and teachers in these areas have to contend with
minimal or sub-standard facilities which have an adverse impact on the quality of teaching and learning
process. The provision of teacher housing, in particular, is necessary to support the Government's teacher
deployment policy in isolated regions and will also help motivate and maintain qualified teachers in these
areas. Currently, about 53% of the agreed staff houses is targeted to the states of Sabah and Sarawak.
152 and 132 staff houses are being built in Sarawak and Sabah respectively of the total agreed 530 staff
houses for Year 1.
The selection of schools, teacher quarters and student boarding facilities to be financed under the project is
also based on the need to extend Universal Primary Education (UPE). It has been determined on the basis
of present demand and need of the staff and students in the existing schools. The buildings are based on
standard designs and the component will be implemented by JKR or the Public Works Department of
Malaysia. As for on-going projects, experienced private contractors would be used for the civil works to
eliminate implementation delays.
The Government has provided assurances that all land necessary for the construction of facilities has been
acquired, since the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) has now adopted the practice of approving for inclusion
in each years development budget on those projects for which sites have been acquired and to facilitate
advance acquisition, special govermment-fmanced funds have been set up in Sabah and Sarawak. The
Government has also assured that all teacher requirements for the new schools would be provided once they
are completed.
1.2 Staff Development
The quality of the teaching-learning process would be improved through support for a staff development
program that focuses on priority subject areas such as mathematics, science, information technology and
English. This would be provided through an established and continuing program of professional
development and upgrading through In-Service training (INSET) which has slowed down as a result of an
operational budget reduction of 72% in the current fiscal year.
Quality improvements through the INSET program would be achieve in a number of ways. First, the
project would support the upgrading of the competency and efficiency of primary and secondary school
teachers so that they will be able to implement the curriculum effectively and facilitate the learning process
in the classroom. Second recent developments in information technology (IT) and the Government's effort
in promoting IT through the Multi-Media Super Corridor has encouraged MOE to expand its Computer in
Education Program to the Smart School Program which promotes smart learning-teaching through
multi-media. Thus, upgrading teacher skills in priority programs such as science and IT are very relevant
to future needs. Third, the support would reduce the urban-rural disparities in student achievement through
-26-



an increase in the number of experienced and qualified teachers in the rural areas. Finally, it would help
develop and improve the teaching process and learning materials for an innovative pilot program to support
the expansion of Basic Education from 9-11 years.
Project funding would be provided for:
a) Short-term in-service courses for primary and secondary teachers in the above priority subject areas.
Over the three year project period about 3970 primary and secondary teachers (about 1.5% of the
current teaching force) would be trained in Teacher Training Colleges (TTC) and in SEAMEO
Regional Education Center for Science and Mathematics (RECSAM) to upgrade their competencies.
The TTC and RECSAM courses would include, inter alia, strategies in mathematics and science
teaching for primary and secondary school (TTC), and Multimedia for strengthening primary Science
teaching and development of IT materials for schools (RECSAM). In addition, support for the
development of workplace training and skills, including instructional materials and evaluation, of a
pilot school to work program to support the expansion of basic education, is also included.
b) Upgrading of secondary teachers from diploma to University degree level (a total of 1240 teachers
in priority subjects). The breakdown is: Mathematics 260, Science 300, IT 200, Engineering
Technology 140, and English 340. The funding would include support for a short 14 week in-service
preparation program in IT (specifically linked to the "smart schools") and for Mathematics and
Science. This is a three year program, with the first year of studies in a TTC and the next two years at
local universities The project funding would support MOE's strategic plan to have every secondary
teacher with a university degree by 2004.
The Project will be undertaken by the Teacher Education Division (TED) and The Regional Center For
Science and Mathematics (RECSAM). The Project will also fund support facilities such as books,
CD-Roms, and science laboratories equipment required for the INSET.
Project Component 2 - US$197.3 million
POLYTECHNIC EDUCATION SYSTEM
The objective of this component is to increase the enrollment capacity of the polytechnic system and
enhance the quality and relevance of training programs. This objective responds to the pressing need to
produce middle-level manpower with high skills and productivity to help in the medium-term economic
recovery. This program builds on Bank support provided under the ongoing Polytechnic Development
Project (Loan 3571-MA). The support deals with the issue of expanding access and equity to post
secondary education.
The component consists of: (i) capacity expansion; (ii) staff and curriculum development; and (iii)
upgrading of polytechnic management and planning.
2.1 Capacity Expansion through New Construction and Upgrading
The project supports: (i) construction and equipping of a new polytechnic institute, located in Kota
Kinabalu (Sabah), with a design capacity of 3,600 students; and (ii) upgrading and capacity expansion of
six existing older polytechnics, essentially geared to increasing their current capacity of 2000-3000
students to 5000 each, for a total of about 15,000 new student places. The Polytechnics are: a) Politeknik
Ungku Omar, Ipoh (PUO), b) Politeknik Sultan Haji Ahmad Shah, Kuantan (POLISAS), c) Politeknik
-27-



Sultan Abdul Halim Muadzam Shah, Jitra (POLIMAS) d) Politeknik Kota Bharu, Kelantan (PKB), e)
Politeknik Kuching, Sarawak (PKS); and f) Politeknik Port Dickson (PPD). The physical and basic
facilities, and equipment will be upgraded such that the polytechnics will be at par with those developed
subsequently. This will ensure continuous support for the establishment of a demand-driven system to meet
the need for middle-level technicians and business executives.
Preparatory work for the proposed new polytechnic in Kota Kinabalu is at an advanced stage.
Specifications, drawings and bid documents are available, and tenders for construction can be invited
quickly (under ICB procedures, as per Bank Guidelines). Construction could start in July 1999 and be
completed before the projected closing date of the loan. It is located in a development zone, next to the Kota
Kinabalu Industrial Park for which the infrastructure development is well under way. Initial investment
costs are high and could be brought down, if needed, by delaying part of the construction of student hostels
and staff housing (phasing).
The decision to upgrade the six polytechnics was based on a comparative analysis of the investment costs
of new polytechnics versus the costs of expanding and upgrading the older polytechnics. This analysis
showed that the unit cost per extra place in the upgraded polytechnics cost only about a third of the unit
cost per place in the new polytechnic and convincingly demonstrates that expanding and upgrading the
older polytechnics is a very cost-effective way of increasing the system's capacity. The upgrading program
supported by the project would cover the highest priority items (physical construction and equipment)
which can be undertaken during the project implementation period. The additional buildings to be provided
would include standard units of class and lecture rooms and multipurpose laboratory/workshop spaces to
provide maximum flexibility of use and minimize the time required for design and construction. The
activities supported under the project, however, represent only the first phase of upgrading and a second
phase to cover the balance of accommodation and equipment upgrading would follow.
2.2 Staff and CurriculumDevelopment
This will focus on promoting quality and excellence by providing qualified and skilled teachers and
instructors in polytechnics through local short and long-term training programs. It will build on the
capacity of teachers/instructors and prepare new teachers/instructors to cater to increased student
enrollment at the polytechnics.
The Project will support staff development through provision for training for about 1,130 new and existing
staff in a variety of domestic training programs, using Institute Teknologi Tun Hussein Onn (ITTHO),
Universit Teknologi Malaysia (UKM) and University Utara Malaysia (UUM). The courses would be in
engineering, commerce, tourism and hospitality, technical and vocational education including advanced
manufacturing systems, as well as career guidance and counseling. The breakdown of participants
according to levels of courses undertaken are; i) 90 non-degree instructors ii) 475 undergraduates, iii) 386
post-graduates, and iv) 180 polytechnic staff and administrators for short-term fellowship and training.
The curriculum development program will develop curricula and teaching materials, including computer
and self-learning materials in 15 main course areas. It would be done jointly by the TED staff, polytechnic
specialists and advisory conmmittees. The program will be complemented by a small scale research and
development program comprising: a) workshops to introduce and encourage Action Research for improving
delivery methods or operational efficiency in the polytechnics; b) introduction of a pilot scheme for the
award on a competitive basis of small scale research and development grants of up to RM 10,000 (about
US$2,600) for carrying out innovative projects for improving quality or efficiency in an aspect of the
teaching and learning process e.g. innovations in the use of multimedia/IT; and c) review of operations
-28-



including the semester system, credit hour and credit transfer.
2.3 Enhanced Polytechnic Planning and Management Systems
Improve efficiency in management and information systems would be attained through project support for
studies and technical assistance (TA). It will build on and consolidate programs which have been
undertaken under the on-going Bank project (Loan 3571-MA). Project support would comprise:
a) Further assistance for the Polytechnic Labor Market Information System (PLMIS) initiated under
Loan 3571. Support will be provided for the continuation by each polytechnic, of tracer studies of
graduates and surveys of employers, including analysis of findings and implementation of follow-up
actions, particularly in relation to planning courses and enrollments in line with outcomes and costs. This
program will provide data on labor market outcomes, which combined with improved analysis of costs
will ensure cost-effective training which meets employment needs and graduate expectations;
b) Introduction in the six existing polytechnics of the first phase of the improved Polytechnic
Management Information Systems and IT which are being developed on a pilot basis. The project will
support limited consultant input, the supply of hardware and software and related training;
c) Preparation of Master Development Plans for the existing polytechnics covering at least a ten year
period. The plans will aim at establishing efficient flexible institutions, able to respond to changing needs
in terms of numbers to be enrolled, competencies required, delivery methods and utilization of buildings.
It will also provide for supporting implementation plans for the decentralization of responsibilities as the
polytechnics continue to expand; and
d) Quality management and efficiency of polytechnic operations, including analysis of training costs and
utilization of resources, and implementation of quality management systems (MS ISO 9000).
Other institutional development actions agreed for the implementation of this component is that the
Development Privatization and Supply Division (DPSD) of the MOE would supervise the upgrading of the
Polytechnics normally done by JKR (Ministry of Public Works). DPSD would do it with consultants
(architect and quantity surveyor) contracted before May 15, 1999 on renewable one year contracts. TOR
for these positions would be agreed with the Bank.
Project Component 3 - US$ 16.5 million
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
The objective of this component is to restore some of MOE's institutional development plans which have
been severely constrained or cut as a result of the current economic crisis. Problems include limited
funding for the Education Management Information System (EMIS) to complete national data collection
and analysis, inability to continue programs for improved sector management; and cuts in the programs
for sponsored students pursuing graduate and post-graduate programs overseas and/or locally. The
reduced budget has significant implications for the maintenance of the quality of education and efficiency
of sectoral management at all levels.
This component would include support for: (i) continued development of the EMIS; (ii) improved sector
management; (iii) improved instructional delivery system and institutional development at the tertiary level;
-29-



and (iv) strengthening the capacity of project management.
3.1 Education Management Information System (EMIS)
The project would continue to improve and expand the already established EMIS in the current economic
and financial crisis and build institutional capacity.
Under the Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Loan of the World Bank (Loan No.3536-M),
TA through the HIID consultancy facilitated the designing and developing of an EMIS. It has been
successful in providing a system that provides for vertical integration through a network of information
collection centers (schools, REO's/DEOs and SEDs). The EMIS application started in June 1997 and is
now fully operational in Peninsular Malaysia but only at a limited number of districts in Sabah and
Sarawak. Most of the REO/DEO, and schools in Sabah and Sarawak are using obsolete PCs that are not
compatible with the EMIS application. Project support would ensure that the EMIS's computerized data
management system is implemented nationally. In addition, the EMIS is expected to face Y2K compliance
problems in Year 2000. Presently, EPRD maintains its basic education information on mainframe
computer facilities using an in-house developed data base management system (DBMS) The latter will not
be compatible with the new Operating System to be adopted by the Information System Division (ISD) as
part of its Y2K compliance strategy. It is, thus, necessary to have a computer server to be added to the
existing Local Area Network and migrate the application to a commercially available DBMS. The project
would facilitate the EMIS transition to a Y2K compliant system by phasing out obsolete equipment and
operating systems.
The implementation of the computerized data collection and management needs to be complemented
through the provision of continuous EMIS related training to build the capacity of EMIS officials at all
levels. Institutional capacity would also be strengthened through the horizontal integration of multiple data
bases collected by the different MOE divisions and the development of a focused Executive Information
System (EIS) to support decision-makers in formulating policy.
The Project will provide computers, equipment, software and furniture to several targeted departnents and
divisions at the MOE, SED, REO/DEO and selected schools mainly in Sabah and Sarawak. In addition,
the transition to a Y2K compliant system would be facilitated through the provision of a server. The
Project will also assist in implementing training programs, including related policy seminars and
workshops, and provision of textbooks and instructional material, and local TA to develop and establish the
EIS system.
3.2 MOE Staff Development
To enhance the effectiveness of its staff at central, state and district levels, the MOE encourages and
supports staff development in two ways: (a) through graduate programs (undertaken prirnarily within
Malaysia but overseas where appropriate local programs do not exist), (b) and through a small program of
short courses on specialist topics related to education management and administration. The current
economic downturn, has hampered MOE's effort in undertaking the programs fully. Measures have been
taken to allow only local study program without scholarship while the number of short-term courses had
been reduced. Continuous training is viewed as an essential part in upgrading professionalism and in
keeping pace with various new challenges taking place in the education system.
The project would support:
-30-



a) Short Term Programs for MOE officials, State and District Education Departments and
Lecturers of TTCs. These programs are planned for duration of one week to one month at regional
and international institutions and are aimed at upgrading professional skills management and
enhancing the support system for teachers (129 candidates over three years) and would make a
useful contribution to strengthening basic education; and
b) Long-term program through scholarships for masters and Ph.D. programs (107 staff) for
enhancing professional skills of MOE officials. There are 15 candidates for overseas Doctoral
Degree programs and 97 candidates for Masters Degree Programs (72 local and 25 overseas) in 17
areas of specialization. Participants are staff who fulfill management or leadership roles.
3.3 Higher Education Staff and Institutional Development
There is a continuing need to improve the quality of the instructional delivery system and increase
competencies in specialized areas through training programs for lecturers at the eleven public higher
education institutions. The decline in funding has meant that the program for graduate study abroad has
become severely limited, and only approximately 10% of all applications for support can currently be
funded. The Government therefore has requested funding for 100 staff to obtain graduate qualifications
overseas in specialist disciplines (priority for science and technology) for which no existing graduate
provision is available in Malaysia. Newer institutions will be given priority in terms of the distribution of
the awards.
Project support would be for 50 candidates for doctoral qualifications and 50 for masters programs, both
commencing in September 1999. Because of the substantial reduction in the MOE budget for supporting
overseas graduate study, a waiting list of candidates for places currently exists, and who have been
accepted for places at overseas universities. Although the Masters program is for two year courses and can
be fully funded under the loan, the doctoral degrees would be for longer periods. The Government has
agreed to pay the additional funding required once the loan allocation is over (also for the MOE staff
development program above).
Project support is also provided for TA (local and international) and operational support to initiate a
number of policy assessments in key areas such as: a) the development and implementation of new funding
methodologies for institutes of higher education to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of resource
allocation and to link funding to performance and quality criteria; b) a review of policy implications for
assuring quality in the expansion of student enrollment e.g. the application of quality assurance systems to
universities; and c) implications of the development of information technology in universities e.g. to
develop and implement an information strategy for coordinated introduction of IT in universities.
3.4 Project Management Support
General oversight of project implementation will be the responsibility of a Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) with its membership comprising all MOE Departments involved in the project, EPU and the
Treasury (see Attachment 1).
The project will be implemented by DPSD who have identified the need for qualified accounting and
procurement staff for supporting project implementation. DPSD suggested that a project manager is
required for the day-to-day oversight of the project team. The staff would be recruited on one-year
renewable contracts, for the duration of the project, under terms of reference to be prepared by DPSD and
-31-



agreed with the Bank. Given the importance of the procurement specialist, his/her appointment has been
made a condition of effectiveness. The project would support the hiring of these specialists as well as
computers and software would needed to support them.
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Project monitoring will be supported by an accounting system to monitor the financial progress of the
project, as well as the EMIS and individual divisional databases to track project progress based on key
outputs and performance indicators. The project will provide a quarterly Project Management Report
(PMR) which will be the basis of disbursements. The format has been discussed and agreed with MOE.
The more general project monitoring would be done with the support of the EMIS (Sub-component 3.1
above), and individual divisional databases under the direction of EPRD. The results of monitoring and
evaluation, based on implementation schedules and monitoring indicators contained in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), will be captured in six monthly progress reports (summary report in May and
detailed annual reports in October, which will be linked to the extent feasible with project supervision
missions) and submitted to the Bank.
-32-



THE PROJECT COORDINATION COMMITTEE (PCC)
Prokect Coordination Comnunttee\
Sub-Committees  ~     Cairman: Deputy Secretary General (F & D) and                   rasr
\                         :d/    ~~~~~~~~~~Director General of Schools Department  (/
Members: PMT, EPU and Treasury
Proiect Management Team (PMT)
Higher Education Division, Technical Education Department, Teacher Education Division,
Curriculum Development Centre, Development, Privatisation and Supply Division (P1U),
Educational Planning and Research Division (Secretariat)
State Education Department, Public Works Department,
Teacher Training Centre, RESCAM



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Project Cost By Component                                           (US$ Million)
Local         Foreign          Total
I. Basic Education
A. Capacity Expansion                         94.0            27.6           121.5
B. Staff Development                          4.5             1.9             6.3
Subtotal Basic Education                      98.4            29.4           127.8
II. Polytechnics
A. Capacity Expansion                        100.4            62.6           163.0
B. Staff and Curriculum Development           5.0             1.7             6.7
C. Polytechnic Planning & Management          1.1             1.4             2.5
Subtotal Polytechnics                        106.5            65.7           172.2
Ill. Institutional Strengthening
A. EMIS                                       2.0             3.8             5.8
B. Graduate Programs (MOE Staft)              0.4             2.1             2.5
C. Higher Education Development               0.7             6.1             6.8
D. Project Management                         0.5             0.1             0.5
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening          3.6             12.0            15.6
Total Baseline Cost                          208.5           107.1           315.6
Physical Contingencies                        14.1            6.9            21.0
Price Contingencies                           18.8            4.1            22.9
Front-end fee                                                 2.4             2.4
Total Project Costs                          241.4           120.5           361.9
Proiect Cost by Category of Expenditure                            (US$ Million)
Local         Foreign          Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                168.9           42.2           211.1
B. Goods
1. Booksllnstructional Materials        2.4              -              2.4
2. Fumiture                             12.1            3.0             15.1
3. Equipment                            11.5            49.2           60.7
Subtotal Goods                                26.0            52.2            78.2
C. Services
1. TAlConsultant Services               3.7             0.6             4.3
D. Staff Development                          9.9             12.0           22.0
Total Baseline Costs                         208.5           107.1           315.6
Physical Contingencies                        14.1            6.9            21.0
Price Contingencies                           18.8            4.1            22.9
Fee (1 % of loan Amount)                                      2.4             2.4
Total Project Costs                          241.4           120.5           361.9
-34-



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
1. Sector and Project Background
During the Sixth Malaysia Plan period (1991-1995) and in line with the longer-term objective of achieving
universal secondary education, the main objective of the Government was to expand capacity in order to
increase enrollment and access to all levels of education. The expansion resulted in increases in enrollment
at all levels of education. However, during this period, enrollments in various disciplines at the secondary
and higher levels level did not correspond to the countries labor market demand.
The Seventh Malaysia Plan intends to continue the emphasis on capacity expansion and increased access
while steering the quality and composition of output towards the needs of the labor market. Another major
objective is to reduce the urban rural gap in terms of quality of training.
The project consists of three components: Basic Education, Polytechnic Education, and Institutional
Strengthening. The objective of the basic education component is to support the Governments policy of
extending basic education from nine to eleven years, essentially through capacity expansion and teacher
training programs aimed at improving quality. The main objective of the Polytechnic Component is to
increase capacity through the establishment of a new polytechnic institute in Kota Kinabalu and the
up-grading of the six existing polytechnics through support for physical investments for construction,
provision of equipment, and the related curriculum, staff, and institutional development.
2. Economic Analysis: Approach
The Bank has been steadily increasing its lending for education projects world-wide on the grounds that
education is a prime contributor to development. Bank Operational Directives have required economic
analysis of education projects prior to their approval so as to assure that resources allocated to this end are
used efficiently.
Investment in education has numerous externalities exceeding by far its private returns. This is particularly
true for investments in basic education. However, the benefits to higher and technical education are more
easily evaluated than those of basic education.
In the past, the economic justification of Bank investments in education were based exclusively on the
specification of externalities rarely involving an evaluation, let alone an extensive cost-benefit analysis.
Externalities associated with basic education are widely documented. A more educated workforce expands
the economy's production possibilities frontier. Education also has community level benefits such as
reducing fertility, population growth, crime, and incidence of certain diseases. Improved access to quality
education contributes to better income distribution. These benefits are not easily quantified.
While the specification of externalities is generally considered a satisfactory approach for justifying most
basic education projects, a more extensive analysis is appropriate for higher and technical education
projects. More specifically, the analysis would consist of a cost-benefit analysis estimating net present
values (NPV) and economic rates of return (ERR) for the project or component and for alternative
scenarios to the investmnents undertaken by the project. The polytechnic component of this project would
typically be an ideal candidate for this type of analysis. Nevertheless, there are some issues that have
-35-



placed limitations on the analysis. In particular, several factors make it difficult to accurately estimate the
number of graduates available for employment as well as the wages for these higher level skilled workers
and technicians. These issues are summarized bellow.
(i)    The only existing tracer study conducted by the MOE is one supported by the Bank's on-going
loan (Loan 3571-MA). This tracer study focusing on labor market needs was scheduled to start with
the 1995 cohort of polytechnics students. It was delayed by one year and as a result, wages and other
labor market information for the first cohort of the study will, at the earliest, become available in a
preliminary report this summer;
(ii)    The Malaysian system (among other modes of access to higher education) allows polytechnic
diploma graduates to enroll in higher education and obtain an undergraduate degree over a shorter
period of time. This could have significant costs but the benefits are essentially qualitative in that they
provide the system with flexibility to rapidly respond to labor market needs. Information indicating the
percentage of polytechnic graduates opting for continuing in higher education vs. entering the job
market and their reason for doing so is not readily available. Aside from the fact that the benefits are
not measurable, this information seems essential in making assumptions on the share of labor market
oriented polytechnic graduates; and
(iii)   A portion of the certificate and diploma graduates have been in the past and are likely to be
further trained within existing polytechnic institutes as instructors. Before the crisis labor market
conditions were such that higher education graduates were typically not attracted to teaching positions
in the polytechnic schools. This is now likely to change and would also affect the percentage of
polytechnics student requiring further training.
Without further information it is difficult to make reliable assumptions on the number of polytechnic
graduates entering the job market and their wages. Nevertheless, the analysis specifies the benefits and
carries out a cost-benefit analysis where the net benefits of these investments are measured in terms of
avoided costs of an alternative capacity expansion investment (i.e., the establishment of four new institutes
in lieu of up-grading of the six existing institutes).
With regard to the basic education component the analysis specifies the benefits of these investments while
closely examining the construction costs of the component.
3.     The Polytechnic Component
3.1    Benefits of Investments in Polytechnics:
The direct beneficiaries of the polytechnics component consist of: students enrolling in the Kota Kinabalu
Polytechnic Institute with a planned capacity of 3,600; students enrolled in the six upgraded institutes
representing an additional capacity of 15,000 students, and 1,131 academic staff benefiting directly from
the polytechnics staff training activities of the project. The polytechnic component is also expected to
generate a total of 1,500 to 1,900 additional employment opportunities for future academic staff.
The indirect benefits of the polytechnic component stem from the overall objective of the component to
support a demand driven production of mid-level technicians and business executives in response to labor
market demand. The activities supported by the project cover only part of the investments required to
accommodate expected enrollments and labor market needs. Actual and planned polytechnics enrollment
-36-



figures are presented in Table 1 below.
Table 1:
Actual and Planned Polytechnics Student Enrollments
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003
Certificate Courses
Civil Engineering  3,121   3,156  3,175  2,848  3,005  3,458  3,458  3,458  3,458  3,458
Elect. Engineering  3,446  3,350  3,364  3,233  3,608  4,046  4,081  4,686  4,686  4,686
Mech. Engineering    3,454  3,187  3,197  2,993  3,281  3,994  4,834  5,594  6,074  6,074
Commerce             868    867    709    674    884    911   1,071  1,071  1,071   1,071
Others                                            123    120    360    600    600    600
Total             10,889 10,560 10,445  9,748 10,901  12,529 13,741  15,409 16,049 16,049
Diploma Courses
Civil Engineering    450    728   1,261   1,286  1,897  1,809  2,049  2,929  4,209  5,489
Elect. Engineering   608    891   1,418  1,284  2,283  2,361   3,321   5,201  7,281  9,361
Mech. Engineering    1,693  1,994  2,361   2,960  2,956  3,346  4,466  6,808  9,186  11,226
Commerce           2,296  2,541  2,949  3,538  3,837  4,740  5,540  7,020  8,420  9,740
Others                                                    120    360    800  1,240  1,680
Total              5,047  6,154  7,989  9,068 10,955 12,376 15,736 22,758 30,336 37,496
Source: MOEMalaysia
The existing polytechnics were planned for enrollment capacities of about 1,200 but the actual enrollments
have increased to 2 - 3 thousand and with the up-grading investments are expected to increase to 5
thousand by the year 2000.
It is also worth noting that Tracer Studies and Employer Surveys financed by the proposed project will
contribute to more efficiently responding to the needs of an evolving labor market. These studies
combined with improved analysis of costs are meant ensure continuous cost-effective training meeting the
needs of the labor market.
3.2    Cost-Benefit Analysis:
As mentioned above, a cost-benefit analysis where the net benefits of polytechnic school up-grading
investments are measured in terms of avoided costs of an alternative capacity expansion investment is
carried out. The alternative considered consists of establishing four new institutes with a capacity of 3,750
each in lieu of up-grading of the six existing institutes. The total capacity increase under both scenarios is
15,000 enrollments.
The selection criteria underlying the scope and scale of activities financed by the proposed project can be
expressed as activities for which development can be completed within the proposed project implementation
period of 1999 to 2002 providing equitable access in line with recent trends in national and regional
demand for polytechnic graduates.
With the exception of an implementation period of maximum three years the above alternative satisfies the
-37-



selection criteria. The minimum implementation period for the construction of a new polytechnics is
around four years. The design work, architectural drawings, and tender documents for the new Kota
Kinabalu have been prepared before hand allowing its implementation in three years under the proposed
project.
The alternative also satisfies the "appropriate" size of institutions. The capacity of polytechnic schools
varies across couhtries and sometimes regions within countries. It is primarily a function of local demand
and labor mobility. Recent trends in demand for polytechnic graduates in Malaysia warrant a capacity of
approximately three to four thousand without running the risk of under-utilization of facilities.
The analysis is carried out under the following assumption:
a) The alternative scenario consists of construction four new institutes in mainland Malaysia with a
total capacity of 15,000 in lieu of the up-grading investment of the proposed project.
b) The net benefits of the project are measured in terms of cost-savings with respect to the alternative
scenario.
c) The construction period of the alternative scenario is four years.
d)  Costs are expressed in real terms in US dollars and at a constant exchange rate of 3.8.
e)  Utilization at full capacity immediately after implementation under both scenarios.
f)  The investment costs of constructing a new institutes in mainland Malaysia with a capacity of
3,750 are equivalent to the costs of construction of the Kota Kinabalu Institute with a capacity of
3500. This assumption does not under-estimate the costs of newly constructed polytechnics given
that construction costs are 5 to 10 percent higher for Peninsula Malaysia.
g)  Output will consist of 30 percent Certificate graduates and 70 percent of Diploma graduates.
This is in line with the planned enrollment patterns.
h) The annual recurrent costs of the of the alternative scenario are assumed to be proportional to
enrollments and are based on the costs estimated for the Kota Kinabalu Institute. They amount to
US$17 million and result in US$1,133 per student per year.
i)  A discount rate of 10 percent is used in estimating the NPV.
Furthermore, by considering this alternative scenario which due to a longer implementation period delays
output by two years as compared to the up-grading scenario, it is implicitly assumed that a student
graduating in two years has the same value as a student graduating in four years.
The incremental recurrent costs of the up-graded institutes amounts to US$15.2 million. This is equivalent
to US$1,013 per additional student per year. The stream of net benefits of the proposed investments is
shown over a period of fifteen years. The cumulative output of the alternative scenario over a fifteen year
period is 139,500 graduates. This output is produced at a total discounted cost of US$356.5 million.
Under the proposed scenario this same output is achieved within thirteen years and at a total discounted
cost of US$183.3 million representing exactly half of the cost incurred under the new construction
alternative.
The results of the analysis are summarized in the table 2 below.
-38-



Table 2:
Polytechnic Component
UP EfTbeiSbSiKExthdhikts             C13o       foFwaNewII biMs
ELpd 2i   1ant  TodCmt    LEj1                 __     Ilat  ToiCmt                  (US$nik)
(U$)   GDSS8ShC (US$nA-)    Out  (US$n1inm)  Cost  (LMJSSniln)  9oa)edat10/
1999   ~  19.00  0.00    19.00       -       41.60    o.oo    41.60      22.60      22.60
2DO        -      25.90     0.OC    25.90       -      108.80    0.00    108.80     8290       75.36
11         -      36.40     4.56    40.96       -      119.00   0o00     119.00     78.04      64.50
IXRt      ~        5.30    1520     2050        -       51.60    0.00     51.60     31.11      23.37
2mB      4,500     0.00     1520    1520        -       0.00     5.10     5.10     -10.10       -6.90
214      15,0co    0.00     1520     1520       -       0QO     17.00    17.00     1.80        1.12
2005     15,OCO    0.00     1520    1520       4500     0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        1.02
2006     15,OCO    0.00     1520    1520      I1m       0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.92
17       I5,OCO    0.00     1520    1520      IS9D      0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.84
2X0      15,OCO    0.00     1520     1520     I19a1     0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.76
5,OC0    0.00     1520    1520       1S10     0.00     17.00    17.00      1.80       0.69
210      15,00)    0.00     1520    1520       150C     0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.63
311      15,000    0.00     1520    1520       1910     0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        057
212      15,000    0.00     1520     1520      191(     0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.52
313      15,l03    0.00     1520     1520      19Is(    0.00     17.00    17.00     1.80        0.47
314      15,011    0.00     1520     1520      190CO    0.00     17.00    17.00     80         0.43
TOal    169t       R66C    2020)    289       139510   3211,   19204    5304        22435       19
L                                                              AeO1 M1
The project shows a stream of cost savings that yield at a 10% discount rate a NPV of 186.92. The ERR
criteria is generally avoided in making decisions when comparing mutually exclusive alternatives. As can
be seen from Table 2 the project exhibits positive net benefits already in the first year. With the exception
of year 2003 the stream of net benefits defined as such is always positive. The above analysis indicate that
there is a unique ERR and that it would have be unusually high given that the stream of net benefits are but
for one year positive.
4. Basic Education Capacity Expansion and Staff Development
The project supports increases in capacity through the creation of 35 primary schools, 25 secondary
schools expected to accommodate approximately 34,000 students, 600 teachers quarters and 2750 student
hostels. The component also involves direct quality improvement measures through teacher training. The
staff development activities support short-term in-service courses for 3970 teachers as well as the
up-grading of secondary school teachers from diploma to university degree. Indirect quality improvements
and access to quality training for rural students are achieved through the provision of teachers' quarters
and student hostels.
The major benefits of the Basic Education component are of qualitative nature and are not captured by the
direct beneficiaries. One of the major benefits is to accommodate increases in enrollment, reduce/prevent
overcrowding in urban areas and replace dilapidated facilities in rural areas.
The proposed project supports staff housing and student hostels in the vicinity of schools to
accommodate students and teachers whose current sub-standard facilities adversely impact their
performance and discourages students from continuing their schooling. Hostel facilities in rural areas
enable access to educational facilities in rural and remote areas. Hostels in urban areas enable access and
benefit students from rural areas. The student hostels provide an incentive for rural students to remain in
-39-



the education system. Sirnilarly the investments in construction of teachers quarters results in social
benefits of attracting qualified and more experienced teachers to rural and remote areas. There are 530
teachers quarters scheduled for implementation during the first year of the project. The majority of these
constructions are planned for the less developed states of Sabah and Sarawak. The teacher/teachers'
quarters ratio is low (i.e., 1:0.7) and accounts to a large extent for the lower quality of education in rural
areas. Despite previous efforts to reduce the quality gap between urban and rural schools large gaps still
exist between the performance of urban and rural students.
The Goverrnents efforts to expand capacity resulted in increases in enrollment at all levels of
education as shown in the table below.
Table 3:
Enrollment and Projected Enrollment in Basic Education
Expected
Annual Rate Annual Rate of
Level of                                    of Increase %  Increase % ('95-
Educaqtion       1990      1995      2000      ('90-'95)        '00)
Primary           2,447,206 2,827,627 2,900,000       2.9            0.5
Secondary         1,366,068 1,589,584 2,000,000       3.1            4.7
Total             3,813,274 4,417,211 4,900,000
ce: MOE, Malaysia
Note: The expected rate of increase of 0.5 %for primary education is explained by the achievement and maintenance of
universal primary education. The 4.7% rate of increase in enrollments at the secondary level reflects the extension of basic
education from nine to eleven years.
Currently there is a shortage of trained teachers both at the primary and secondary levels. In recent years
the shortage has been partially overcome through the re-employment of approximately 3000 retired staff as
well as the employment of temporary staff. However there are important costs associated to this shortage
of staff that will be avoided through properly designed staff training. These costs are reflected by the high
student-teacher ratio particularly in urban areas, as well as by the composition and quality of training
provided.
The construction costs of the basic education component are high. Construction costs have traditionally
been known to be high in Malaysia. A major factor contributing to these high costs is that the Government
has systematically applied generous design and space standards particularly for school constructions. The
following table presents the costs of construction of schools, teachers' quarters and student hostels.
-40-



Table 4:
Costs of Construction
Average Unit   Number of    Total Area   Cost per
Cost1      Classrooms        m2           m2
Primary Schools               2,047       12             65,910    224
Secondary Schools             2,872       20             46,462    247
Teachers' Quarters           29,136      n.a.            113.00    258
Student Hostels               3,930      n.a.             17.45    225
1. cost per beneficiary.
Although the costs of school construction are relatively high, the cost per square meter present a small
variance across the different categories of construction. This observation seems to indicate that the higher
costs of construction are to a certain extent attributable to factors other than generous school designs
adopted by the MOE. It is also worth noting that the costs of construction per square meter are somewhat
lower in mainland Malaysia where construction materials are more easily available. There is however
scope for efficiency gains which could be achieved in future investments.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Discussed above.
Main Assumptions:
Discussed above.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Not applicable.
-41-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Fiscal Sustainability Analysis
The analysis is presented in three sections. The first section focuses on estimating the recurrent cost
implications of the proposed project to subsequently examine the sustainability of the activities supported
by the project investments. The second section examines current trends of Government expenditure in
education and assesses the sustainability of recent trends in the Governments expenditure in education
under a low and a moderate growth scenario. Finally, section three highlights the issues of fiscal
sustainability of the proposed project as well as the sustainability of further expansion in basic education
and polytechnic education along the trends of the recent past.
In terms of project sustainability the analysis concludes that the maximum total recurrent costs generated
by the Education Sector Support Project amount to MYR98 97.6 million per year. In terms of financial
sustainability the impact of the project on the education operating budget is negligible. They represents less
than one percent of the 1998 operating budget for education. However, about 47 percent of the total
incremental recurrent costs of the project results from the operations of the capacity expansion of the
polytechnics. While the fiscal impact of the project as a whole is negligible, the analysis indicated that the
share of expenditure channeled to the polytechnics would need to increase substantially in order to ensure
project sustainability.
From a more general point of view this brief analysis shows that if recent trends of government expenditure
on education are not reversed, they will become a strain on government revenue. This result is particularly
true under a low growth (GNP growing at 2 percent per annum) scenario. A moderate growth scenario
(with GNP growing at 4 per annum) would greatly reduce the stress on government revenue. Overall fiscal
sustainability can be recovered by ensuring that adjustments in recurrent expenditure on education are in
line with changes in GNP and government revenue. This will, however, entail possible reductions in
spending per student ensuring there are no repercussions on the quality of education.
1.    Estimates of Project Related Recurrent Expenditure
The following estimates of project induced recurrent costs assume that the institutions will be operating at
full capacity shortly after the project is irnplemented. From the point of view of fiscal sustainability this
can be considered as the most demanding scenario in that recurrent cost are assumed to rapidly increase
and remain constant in real terms in the short to medium-run.
1.1.   Impact of Project Investments in Polytechnics on Government Recurrent Expenditure:
The following tables provides the recurrent costs of the six up-graded polytechnics institutes operating at
full capacity before up-grading (Table 1.1) and after project implementation (Table 1.2). The incremental
recurrent costs of this component amounts to MYR 9 30.7 for the upgraded institutes. While the project
nearly doubles the current capacity of the six institutes, the recurrent costs increase by only 56 percent.
-42-



Table 1.1: Recurrent Expenditure of the Six Existing Polytechnic Institutes
PUO        POI.SAS    POLIMAS           PKB          PKS         PPD           Total
Salaries and Alowances
Salaries and Wages          7,924,615.00  7,147,926.00  6,517,574.00 5,444,598.00 4,153,016.00 3,875,866.00  35,063,595.00
Fixed Allowances            1,949,314.00   1,182,100.00   1,879,056.00 1,104,029.00 1,285,041.00   792,264.00   8,191,804.00
Additional StaffExpenditure   204,000.00    375,276.00    200,000.00    89,173.00   310,000.00   145,392.00   1,323,841.00
Overtime Payments              33,000.00     41,856.00    10,800.00    17,750.00    10,200.00    34,724.00    148,330.00
Other Benefits                  2.100.00      2.150.00     9000.00      5.000.00   145.627.00  7.200.00    171.077.00
Total Salaries and Allowances   10,113,029.00  8,749,308.00  8,616,430.00 6,660,550.00 5,903,884.00 4,855,446.00  44,898,647.00
Non-Labor recurrent Costs
Services and Supplies          1,216,680.00   1,417,904.00   1,291,080.00 1,114,750.00 2,446,660.00  1,467,685.00  8,954,759.00
O&M of Fixed Assets               57.000 00    220.000.     125.000.00    62.400.00   404.200.00    65.000.00    933.600.00
Total Non-Labor recurrent Costs 1,273,680.00   1,637,904.00   1,416,080.00 1,177,150.00 2,850,860.00  1,532,685.00   9,888,359.00
TOTAL                            11,386,709.00 10,387,212.00 10,032,510.00 7,837,700.00 8,754,744.00 6,388,131.00  54,787,006.00
Table 1.2: Recurrent Expenditure of the Six Up-graded Institutes After Project
Implementation.
Recurrent Costs of Polytechnics Institutes - 2000
PUQ        POIISAS    PO lIMAS         PKR           PKS          PPD          Totl
Salaries and Allowances
Salaries and Wages        11,084,330.00  8,200,060.00 10,634,197.00  7,699,220.00  5,676,657.00  6,090,451.00 49,384,915.00
Fixed Allowances           2,305,685.00  1,760,352.00  2,564,154.00  1,653,389.00  2,416,614.00  1,298,573.00 11,998,767.00
Additional Staff Expenditure    364,987.00    429,073.00   330,000.00    219,096.00   538,974.00   257,717.00  2,139,847.00
Overtime Payments             39,600.00    38,880.00    13,968.00    29,520.00    17,424.00    41,669.00    181,061.00
Other Benefits               30 562-0  ..4E      00 1. 360nn          7-g00-00   216396         129600 174600   18-45-00
Total Salaries and Allowances  13,825,164.00 10,428,545.00 13,555,879.00  9,609,025.00  8,866,065.00  7,701,370.00 63,986,048.00
Non-Labor recurrent Costs
Services and Supplies         2,937,007.00  2,092,370.40  2,141,359.20  1,845,162.00  4,395,522.00  2,093,334.00 15,504,754.60
O&M of Fixed Assets            93432000    660,000.00  1582128.00   516000   1333,80000   992,40000  6,018,64800
Total Non-Labor recurrent Costs 3,871,327.00  2,752,370.40  3,723,487.20  2,361,162.00  5,729,322.00  3,085,734.00 21,523,402.60
TOTAL                           17,696,491.00 13,180,915.40 17,279,366.20 11,970,187.00 14,595,387.00 10,787,104.00 85,509,450.60
The incremental recurrent costs of the Kota Kinabalu institute will reach a maximum of MYRa 15. 1
million by the year 2004 and it is assumed to remain constant in real terms thereafter. The overall
incremental recurrent costs of the polytechnic component of the project amounts to AfYR9845.8 million.
-43-



Kota Kinabalu Recurrent Costs
2000        2001         2002        2003        2004        Total
Salaries and Allowances
Salaries and Wages        1,107,358.00 3,638,856.00 5,736,932.00 6,884,318.00 8,261,182.00 25,628,646.00
Fixed Allowances           180,000.00   723,719.00  1,232,026.00  1,478,432.00 1,774,117.00 5,388,294.00
Additional Staff Expenditure    37,177.00   100,000.00   477,996.00   573,595.00   688,314.00 1,877,082.00
Overtime Payments            5,000.00    10,000.00    21,240.00    25,488.00   30,586.00    92,314.00
Other Benefits               5,000.00    10.000.00    7000.0      8 0         10.080.00    40480.0
Total Salaries and Allowances  1,334,535.00 4,482,575.00 7,475,194.00 8,970,233.00 10,764,279.00 33,026,816.00
Non-Labor recurrent Costs
Services and Supplies         591,227.00  1,015,300.00 2,699,185.00 3,239,022.00 3,886,827.00 11,431,561.00
O&M of Fixed Assets                0.00    140,000.00   285.000.00   342.000.00  41Q400.00 1,177,400.00
Total Non-Labor recurrent Costs 591,227.00  1,155,300.00 2,984,185.00 3,581,022.00 4,297,227.00 12,608,961.00
TOTAL                          1,925,762.00 5,637,875.00 10,459,379.00 12,551,255.0015,061,506.0045,635,777.00
Note: All figures are in real terms (base year: 1978).
1.2     Incremental Recurrent Costs Resulting from  the Higher Education Staff Development
Activities: (All figures are presented in MYR98).
The higher education staff development activities will translate into an increase in salaries upon graduation
from the Masters and Ph.D. programs. The expected salary increases (based on the existing salary scales)
are presented in the table below. The total incremental recurrent cost of this program  amounts to MYR98
0.85 million. It is worth noting that part of the training costs of the Ph.D. students corresponding to two
years after the project implementation period will be incurred by the government. The share in costs of
training incurred by the GOM amounts to MYR 17.8 million and is not being considered as incremental
recurrent costs.
Higher Education: Incremental Recurrent Costs
Average Annual Salary                                       Annual
CRIM9s)
Prior to       After       Increase in    Number i    Incremental
Program        Trainimg     Graduation      Salaries    Staff Trained      Cost(')
Masters Degree       18,876.00    45,072.00        26,196.00        25          654,900.00
Ph.D. Programs       45,072.00      52,932.00       7,860.00        25          196,500.00
Total                                                               50          851,400.00
(1) Incremental salariesfor masters program graduates will be incurredfrom year 2001 onward, while those of
Ph.D. graduates will be incurredfrom 2004 onward
-44-



1.3.1 Primary School Construction and Related Recurrent Costs:
The primary school construction component of the project will finance the construction of 35 schools
across seven states. Although the exact sizes, locations, and phasing of these works is not yet determined,
it appears that on average each primary school would consist of a 12 classrooms intended to accommodate
about 35 students each.
The recurrent cost estimates are based on a recent study of costs in the education system by MOE's
Education Planning and Research Division and Harvard Institute of International Development: Cost
Analysis in the Malaysian Education System; December 1996., according to which the average size of
public schools is 459.9 students. It is also based on GOM's projections of enrollment patterns implying
costs at full training capacity for all project expansion activities. In what follows, we assume that the
features of the new school constructions under the project are those of the national average school (i.e.,
average school size, and average recurrent cost per student). Given that the average public school's
recurrent unit cost (per student) consists of: (i) management costs (MYR 125.12), (ii) teaching/learning
costs (MYR 612.41), and (iii) welfare costs (21.14), the total recurrent unit cost (per student) of an average
public school would amount to MYR 758.71. The recurrent costs of an average size school can therefore
be assumed as being equal to MYR 348,931. Therefore, the 35 newly constructed primary schools would
entail an incremental recurrent cost of MYR98 12.2 million after implementation.
1.3.2 Secondary School Constructions andRelatedRecurrent Costs:
The secondary school construction component of the project will finance the construction of 25 schools
across seven states. Here again it is not possible at this stage to determine the exact sizes, locations, and
phasing of the construction works. To estimate the incremental recurrent costs for this level of education,
we follow the same procedure as for the primary school costs.
Furthermnore, enrollment in secondary schools is expected to increase by about 25 percent by the year 2000.
Given that with the recent extension of basic education from nine to eleven years this increase is expected
to be significantly higher for upper secondary schools, we further assume that the constructions will consist
of upper secondary schools.
The average size of secondary schools across all states is 1208.2 students. The recurrent unit cost (per
student) is estimated to be MYR 1,282.3. This implies that the total recurrent costs generated by the
project through the secondary school construction activities amounts to MYR98 3& 7million.
2.     Modeling Government Revenue
This section examine the fiscal sustainability of further expansion in basic education and polytechnic
education along the trends of the recent past. First, an attempt is made to examine the impact of the current
downturn on government revenue. Forecasts of government revenue based on different scenarios of
aggregate economic activity are presented. Next the impact of the level of aggregate economic activity or
of government revenue on total government recurrent expenditure on education is considered. Forecasts of
total government recurrent expenditure on education under different scenarios are produced
The first step here is to identify an appropriate model for forecasting the impact of GNP growth on
government revenue. Toward this end, three models are presented and one is selected. The models
examined here have government revenue as the dependent variable and GNP, time or lagged government
-45-



revenue as the independent variables.
Variables
Dependent:    Government Revenue (GR)
Independent:   GNP, time, lagged GNP and lagged GR
Models
2.1    Model A: Autoregressive Distributed Lag
Log GR and Log GNP to reduce variances since variances of these variables increase with time.
Non-stationary model allowing trend to be taken into account.
Variables                     Coefficient         t-ratio
Constant                       0.216               0.453
LnGNP                          1.006               2.809
LnGR(-I)                       0.912               7.071
LnGNP(-I)                     - 0.948              2.487
Adjusted R'                      0.989
F-ratio                        834.417
d.w.                             2.424
SER                              0.065
2.2    Model B: Trend with Autoregressive Process
Time trend from I for 1970. Effectively removing trend and creating stationarity.
Variables              Coefficient        t-ratio
Constant                  9.400           4.266
Time                      0.040           0.598
LnGR(-1)                  0.907            6.055
Adjusted R2              0.986
F-ratio                980.416
d.w.                      1.986
SER                      0.074
-46-



2.3    Model C: First Difference
Taking first difference of LnGR and LnGNP to produce stationarity, i.e. removing trend. Dependent
variable becomes dLnGR (=LnGR - LnGR(-1)). Independent variable becomes dLnGNP (=LnGNP -
LnGNP(-1)).
Variables                Coefficient       t-ratio
Constant                   0.049               6.123
LnGNP - LnGNP(-l           0.233               3.009
Adjusted R2                0.230
F-ratio                    9.051
d.w.                       1.738
SER                        0.031
2.4    Choice of Modelfor Forecasting Government Revenue and Forecast of GNP and Government
Revenue:
Year    Actual           Model A               Model B               Model C
GNP       Fitted    % Error    Fitted     % Error    Fitted      % Erro
1995      33992      37496       10.31     36330        6.88      37697       10.90
1996      36746      36214     - 1.45      35369     -  3.75      36371     -  1.02
1997      41385      38886     - 6.04      38097     -  7.91      39275     -  5.10
1998      33776      38246       13.23     42595        26.11     42924       27.08
Choice is based on the ability of model to predict actual levels of GR (MYR million). Model A is selected
as the best model given that its prediction errors are smaller than those of Models B and C. Model A also
tracks the downturn in 1998 better than the other two models. For these reasons we use Model A for
forecasting GR due to change in the aggregate level of economic activity. We forecast GNP by assuming
two growth scenarios: a) where GNP growth is a low of 2 percent per annum, and b) moderate GNP
growth rate of 4 percent per annum. Assuming that Model A holds for the period from 1999 to 2012 we
forecast government revenue under the two GNP growth scenarios.
The table below shows forecast GNP and government revenue under slow and moderate growth scenarios.
-47-



Forecasts of GNP and Government Revenue (MYR million), 1999-201 Unless specified otherwise the
data in this section is in MYR 1978.
Year              Low Growth (2%)               Moderate Growth (4%)
GNP          Govt. Rev.         GNP           Govt Rev.
1998         125,925.00       33,776.06      125,925.00       33,776.06
1999         128,443.50       33,756.49      130,962.00       34,422.39
2000         131,012.37       33,777.42      136,200.48       35,102.38
2001         133,362.62       33,835.37      141,648.50       35,815.62
2002         136,305.27       33,927.24      147,314.44       36,561.80
2003         139,031.40       34,050.34      153,207.00       37,340.70
2004         141,812.00       34,202.25      159,335.30       38,152.22
2005         144,648.20       34,380.85      165,708.70       38,996.29
2006         147,541.20       34,584.24      172,337.10       39,872.95
2007         150,492.00       34,810.74      179,230.50       40,782.31
2008         153,501.90       35,058.85      186,399.80       41,742.52
2009         156,571.90       35,327.22      193,855.80       42,699.80
2010         159,703.30      35, 614.65      201,610.00       43,708.44
2011         162,897.40       35,920.05      209,674.40       44,750.76
2012         166,155.40       36,242.46      218,061.40       45,827.14
Note: GNP and government revenue in MY?R million. 1998 GNP and government revenue refer to
Treasury forecast.
2.5    Modeling Total Recurrent Expenditure on Education:
The next problem is to look at the behavior of total recurrent expenditure on education. We adopt two
approaches to forecasting total recurrent expenditure in education. First is a simple trend projection that
assumes the present trend will continue. Second, due to time constraint, we experiment with only one
model for forecasting total recurrent expenditure in education. In particular, we adopt a simple model in
which total recurrent expenditure in education is a function of government revenue.
The first approach uses the following simple trend function:
TRE = 312.545 + 157.249 t
Assuming that this trend in real total recurrent expenditure persists, the table below shows the implications
of continued growth in total recurrent expenditure on education for government revenue under the low
growth and moderate growth scenarios.
-48-



Forecasts of Total Recurrent Expenditure in Education (RM million) and as a Proportion ol
Government Revenue, 1999-2012
Year         Low Growth (2 %)          Moderate Growth (4 %)
Govt. Rev.    TREIGR       Govt. Rev.     TRE/GR
1999       33,756.49      14.90       34,422.39       14.61
2000       33,777.42      15.36       35,102.38       14.78
2001       33,835.37      15.80       35,815.62        14.92
2002       33,927.24       16.22      36,561.80        15.02
2003       34,050.34       16.62      37,340.70        15.16
2004       34,202.25      17.01       38,152.22        15.24
2005       34,380.85       17.37      38,996.29        15.32
2006       34,584.24      17.73       39,872.95        15.38
2007       34,810.74       18.06      40,782.31        15.42
2008       35,058.85       18.38      41,724.52        15.45
2009       35,327.22       18.69      42,699.80        15.46
2010       35,614.65       18.98      43,708.44        15.47
2011       35,920.05       19.26      44,750.76        15.46
2012       36,242.46       19.52      45,827.14        15.44
Note: GNP and government revenue in RM million.
As can be seen from the table, under a low growth scenario total recurrent expenditure on education will
consume an increasingly larger proportion of government revenue. The percentage will rise from 14.90
percent in 1999 to 19.52 percent in 2012 if present trends remain. This compares unfavorably with the
past where total recurrent expenditure in education as a proportion of government revenue has averaged
12.79 percent over the last five years (1993-1997). The slow growth scenario implies that further growth
in government spending on education might not be feasible.
On the other hand, under a moderate growth scenario, total recurrent expenditure on education as a
proportion of government revenue will rise from 14.61 percent in 1999 to a peak of 15.47 percent in the
year 2010 and then decline to 15.44 percent in the year 2012. Continued expansion under present trends
will therefore place on stress on govermment revenue but this will decline over time.
In contrast to the above where we assume that past trend in total recurrent expenditure in education will
persist, we now assume that total recurrent expenditure in education will be influenced by government
revenue. For this purpose, the estimated equation used is as follows:
Variables               Coefficient        t-ratio
Constant                 - 0.939              2.787
LnGR                       0.897             25.723
Adjusted R'                0.961
F-ratio                  661.704
d.w.                       1.569
SER                        0.119
On the basis of this model, we forecast total recurrent expenditure on education for the period 1999 to
2012, under the low growth and moderate growth scenarios.
-49-



Assuming that total recurrent expenditure in education is influenced by government revenue, we arrive at
more sustainable estimates. In particular, under the low growth scenario, total recurrent expenditure in
education as a proportion of government revenue could, assuming the model is valid, rise to 13.30 percent
in 1999 and then decline gradually to 13.20 percent by the year 2012. Under moderate growth, the ratio
will rise to 13.27 percent in 1999 and then decline to 12.89 percent by the year 2012 - slightly above the
rate experienced in the last five years.
Year    Low Growth   TRE/GR            Moderate       TRE/GR
Growth
1999       4,489.77        13.30       4,569.10        13.27
2000       4,492.27        13.30       4,649.94         13.25
2001       4,499.18        13.30       4,734.57         13.22
2002       4,510.13        13.29       4,822.91         13.19
2003       4,524.80        13.29       4,914.93         13.16
2004       4,542.89        13.28       5,010.59         13.13
2005       4,564.16        13.28       5,109.87         13.10
2006       4,588.36        13.27       5,212.74        13.07
2007       4,615.29        13.26       5,319.21         13.04
2008       4,644.77        13.25       5,429.28        13.01
2009       4,676.64        13.24       5,542.91         12.98
2010       4,710.74        13.23       5,660.16        12.95
2011       4,746.94        13.22       5,781.03         12.92
2012       4,785.12        13.20       5,905.55         12.89
2.6    Recurrent Expenditure on Education by Level:
Forecasting recurrent expenditure on education by level (primary, secondary, secondary technical and
vocational, and polytechnic) is severely restricted by the absence of readily available data for the years
1980 to 1985. For these years data are available only for primary and secondary lumped together. On the
other hand, no breakdown is readily available for secondary technical and vocational schooling and for
polytechnic education.
Under these circumstances, it is best to forecast recurrent expenditure on education by projecting forward
on the basis of simple trends. In particular the following serve as the basis for projecting recurrent
expenditure on primary, secondary academic, secondary technical and vocational, and polytechnic
education, respectively:
PR[ = 1030.993 + 37.837 t
SEC = 655.698 + 65.834 t
STV = 39.936 + 7.708 t
POL = 10.738 + 1.546t
Before examining the implications of growth in recurrent expenditure on these four levels of education it is
-50-



important to understand past trends in government spending on these four levels of education.
The table below shows that recurrent expenditure on primary education as a proportion of total recurrent
expenditure on education has declined from 35.47 percent in 1986 to 27.69 percent in 1997. The
proportion allocated to secondary academic schooling has also declined from 30.27 percent to 23.96
percent over the same period. On the other hand, the allocation to secondary technical and vocational
education has risen from 1.63 percent to 2.24 percent over the same period. The allocation to polytechnic
education has shown some fluctuation. The share accruing to polytechnic education rose from 0.35 in
1986 to a peak of 0.75 percent in 1991 before declining to a low of 0.47 percent in 1997. Overall, the
amount allocated to these four categories of education has fallen from 67.72 percent in 1986 to 54.36
percent in 1997. This implies that allocation to other categories including central administration has
increased over time.
Recurrent Expenditure by Level of Education as a Proportion of Total Recurrent Expenditure on
Education, 1986-1997
Year    Primary   Secondary  Vocatniocal  Polytechnic         Total
1986      35.47        30.27        1.63         0.35         67.72
1987      35.68        30.55        1.69         0.38        60.31
1988      35.54        31.32        1.65         0.45         68.96
1989      34.47        30.74        1.77         0.42        67.40
1990      33.96        31.80        2.13         0.49         68.77
1991      34.18        31.66        2.49         0.75        68.85
1992      35.78        31.42        2.73         0.66         68.99
1993      33.10        32.76        2.83         0.60         71.97
1994      31.74        30.94        3.18         0.71         67.94
1995      31.74        30.01        2.68         0.56        64.98
1996      29.38        26.64        2.23         0.51         58.75
1997      27.69        23.96        2.24         0.47         54.36
Now, assuming that the trends in spending hold, as given by the above simple trend equations, the share of
primary, secondary academic, secondary technical and vocational, and polytechnic education in recurrent
expenditure will change greatly on the basis of the projections made here. In particular, the downward
trend in the share of primary and secondary education in total recurrent expenditure will be reversed.
Overall, under the low growth scenario recurrent expenditure accruing to these four categories of education
will rise to 71.39 percent in 1999 and continuing rising to 97.66 percent in 2012. Clearly, such trends are
not sustainable. This implies that recurrent spending on the different levels of education must be reduced in
line with any reduction in GNP and therefore in government revenue.
-51-



Projected Recurrent Expenditure by Level of Education as a Proportion of Total Recurrent
Expenditure on Education, 1986-1997: Low Growth Scenario
Technical-
Year    Primary   Secondary  Vocational Polytechnic    Total
1999     33.92       33.67      3.12        0.69       71.39
2000     34.74       35.11      3.29        0.72       73.87
2001     35.53       36.52      3.46        0.75       76.26
2002     36.28       37.89      3.62        0.79       78.58
2003     37.00       39.23      3.78        0.82       80.82
2004     37.69       40.52      3.93        0.85       82.99
2005     38.34       41.77      4.08        0.88       85.07
2006     38.96       42.99      4.23        0.91       87.09
2007     39.55       44.16      4.37        0.94       89.02
2008     40.12       45.30      4.51        0.96       90.89
2009     40.65       46.40      4.64        0.99       92.69
2010     41.16       47.46      4.77        1.02       94.41
2011     41.65       48.48      4.90        1.04       96.07
2012     42.10       49.47      5.02        1.06       97.66
The moderate growth scenario eases the stress somewhat but does not reduce the need to adjust spending on
education in line with growth in GNP and government revenue. The table below shows the proportion of
recurrent expenditure accruing to the four categories of education assuming that GNP grows at 4 percent
per annum.
Projected Recurrent Expenditure by Level of Education as a Proportion of Total Recurrent
Expenditure on Education, 1986-1997: Moderate Growth Scenario
Year    Primary   Secondary  Vocat-ialI Polytechnic    Total
1999     33.33       33.08      3.07        0.67       70.15
2000     33.56       33.92      3.18        0.70       71.36
2001     33.76       34.71      3.29        0.72       72.47
2002     33.93       35.44      3.39        0.74       73.49
2003     34.06       36.11      3.48        0.75       74.41
2004     34.17       36.74      3.57        0.77       75.24
2005     34.25       37.31      3.65        0.78       75.99
2006     34.30       37.84      3.72        0.80       76.65
2007     34.32       38.32      3.79        0.81       77.24
2008     34.32       38.75      3.86        0.82       77.76
2009     34.30       39.15      3.92        0.84       78.20
2010     34.26       39.50      3.97        0.85       78.58
2011     34.20       38.81      4.02        0.85       78.89
2012     34.12       40.09      4.07        0.86       79.14
-52-



The above shows a more sustainable scenario but if there is no reversal in existing trends in expenditure or
more rapid GNP growth, these trends will also not be sustainable in the very long run.
3.     Project Sustainability and Concluding Remarks
After project implementation the maximum total recurrent costs generated by the Education Sector Support
Project amount to MYR, 89.7 million per year. These recurrent costs consist mainly in salaries and other
staff benefits and we assume that in real terms these costs remain constant in the short to medium-run.
The total amount represents less than one percent of the 1998 operating budget for education. It also
represents less than one percent of projected recurrent costs for education under both the low and moderate
GNP growth scenarios throughout the projection period. In terms of financial sustainability the impact of
the project on the education operating budget is negligible. However, 47.2 percent of the total incremental
recurrent costs stem from the polytechnics capacity expansion activities of the project. Furthermore, the
polytechnic incremental recurrent costs represent a high share of the projected expenditures for
polytechnics. In particular, these incremental costs relative to the low growth scenario projections
represent 30 percent in 2002 and gradually decrease to 25 percent in 2012. The same shares for the
moderate scenario are respectively 28 percent and 20 percent.
The analysis indicates that while the fiscal impact of the project as a whole is negligible, the share of
expenditure channeled to the polytechnics would need to increase substantially.
The brief analysis here shows that if trends of government expenditure on education of the recent past are
not reversed they will become a strain on government revenue. This is particularly true under a low growth
(GNP growing at 2 percent per annum) scenario. A moderate growth scenario (with GNP growing at 4 per
annum) would greatly reduce the stress on government revenue. This is clearly seen when we allow
recurrent spending on four categories of education (primary, secondary academic, secondary technical and
vocational, and polytechnics) to grow following recent trends.
On the other hand, if recurrent expenditure on education is allowed to adjust according to changes in GNP
and government revenue then the situation becomes fiscally sustainable. This will, however, entail possible
reductions in spending per student that may have repercussions on the quality of education. At least three
options are open to the government. First is to divert expenditure away from non-educational projects that
are essentially unproductive or only productive in the very long run. Second, the government can increase
the internal efficiency of education. Third, government can reduce current high levels of subsidies to higher
education, particularly university education.
-53-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Procurement
Procurement Principles: Procurement of goods and works funded under the Bank loan will be carried out
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The procurement
of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September, 1997 and January, 1999.
In the event of any conflict between the Bank guidelines and Treasury Department's guidelines on Public
Procurement (1997), the requirements of the Bank guidelines will govern.
Table A summarizes the procurement arrangements, showing the items, their respective cost estimates and
proposed method of procurement. Table B presents the prior review thresholds. Table C summarizes the
allocation of loan proceeds.
Legal Framework: The following national procurement procedures are in conflict with the Bank's
Guidelines:
- Thirty percent of all civil works contracts awarded each year are required to be awarded to
Bumiputra contractors, this requirement reserving all contracts valued below MYR 5Q,000 for
these contractors.
*   Use of centrally awarded contracts as a mandatory source of supply.
*   Mandatory registration of bidders which precludes registration of firms with less than 51%
ownership by nationals.
*   Award of contracts valued at MYR 20,000 or less on the basis of direct contracting without
competition.
l Use of the "two envelope" system for submission of bids.
*   Use of private bid opening rather than public bid opening.
*   Bid preparation periods of less than 30 days.
Malaysia's procurement laws provide that procurement under projects financed by international financial
institutions will be subject to the rules of the financing institution. Therefore, a side letter has been
prepared to identify the procedures that are not acceptable to the Bank.
The use of centrally awarded contracts offer positive economical advantages based on economies of scale
and, as such, should not be discouraged. However, procurement of project related requirements from these
sources constitutes "reserved procurement" which will not be eligible for Bank fnancing.
Organization and Management of Procurement: The Development, Privatization and Supply Division
(DPSD) of MOE will, as in previous Bank-financed projects, be responsible for all procurement under this
project. The Procurement Unit within DPSD will handle international as well as local bidding. The unit
will prepare all bid documentation, including that for civil works, equipment, books and instructional
materials, and will manage the entire procurement process, from preparation of bid documents through bid
evaluation. Standard school furniture will be procured locally following existing NCB procedures.
However, centrally awarded contracts that are not subject to competition will not be eligible for Bank loan
financing. DPSD procurement staff are familiar with the Treasury's procurement guidelines and have
-54-



extensive experience with procurement under Bank-financed projects. However, given the additional
workload imposed by this project, DPSD will contract an experienced procurement officer with specific
responsibility for managing and supervising procurement activities under this project.
With respect to civil works, projects for which the Government has developed standardized designs (such
as primary and secondary schools, teacher training colleges, staff housing and student hostels) will be
handled by the Public Works Department (JKR) under existing procedures that are generally acceptable to
the Bank. The construction of new polytechnics and the upgrading of existing polytechnics, will be handled
by the Technical Unit of DPSD, which has gained extensive experience in this area under the ongoing
Polytechnic Development Project. However, to carry out the program financed by the project, DPSD will
employ an additional architect/engineer and a quantity surveyor, on a full-time basis, for the duration of the
project (three years).
Procurement Procedures
Civil Works: All civil works contracts for ICB procedures are subject to prior Bank review. Civil works
contracts of less than US$5 million will be awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB)
following Bank guidelines. The first three civil works contracts each year, under NCB procedures, will be
subject to prior Bank review.
Goods: With the exception of furniture, all goods requirements will be grouped in packages of
US$200,000 or more to facilitate procurement on the basis of ICB. Goods contracts above US$200,000
will be subject to prior Bank review. Goods packages estimated to cost less than US$200,000 may be
awarded on the basis of NCB. Furniture, with an estimated contract value of US$50,000 or more may be
procured on the basis of NCB procedures. Below this level, national shopping may be used up to an
aggregate of US$4,400,000. Equipment of less than US$50,000 per contract may be purchased using
national shopping procedures up to an aggregate of US$3,400,000. Books and instructional materials
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 may be purchased through national and international shopping or
through direct negotiations, following prior consultation with the Bank.
Consultant services: Procurement methods for the recruitment of consulting firms will be based on
Quality Based Selection (QBS) or Consultants' Qualifications (CQ), as per Sections II and III of the
Guidelines. The selection of individual consultants will follow the provisions of Section V of the
Guidelines. Consultant contracts of US$100,000 or more with firms and US$50,000 or more with
individuals will be subject to full prior Bank review as per Appendix 1 of the Guidelines. All single source
contracts and contract amendments raising the contract value to US$100,000 or above would also be
subject to full prior Bank review.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: A full supervision mission will be conducted
every six months (proposed for May and October each year). These missions will focus on the status of
implementation with emphasis on procurement, project accounts and audits. In addition, the possibility of
basing an internationally recruited procurement specialist in the field, for a short time period at the
commencement of the project, is under discussion.
-55-



Procurement methods (Table A)
(In US$ millions equivalent)
1. Civil Work                          121.5       121.5                                  243.0
(65.0)      (65.0)                                (130.0)
2. Goods.                                    ..
(a) Equipment                           47.9        17.1         3.4                       68.5
(45.5)      (16.3)      (3.3)                      (65.1)
(b) Books/instructional Materials                    1.4         1.4                        2.8
(1.3)       (1.3)                      (2.6)
(c) Funiture                                        13.2         4.4                       17.6
(12.5)      (4.2)                     (16.7)
3. Staff Development                                            23.1                       23.1
I______    _______        (23.1)                     (23.1)
4. Consultant Services                                           3.5         1.1            4.6
__________________________           ________     ________      (3.5)                      (3.5)
Total                   169.4       153.2        35.8         1.1           359.6
_______                               I- (110.5)    (95.1)     (35.4)                     (241.0)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting senices, senvices of
contracted staff of the project management office, training (Gowemments administratihe procedures acceptable
to the Bank), technical assistance serices, and incremental operating costs related to:
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
NBF = Not Bank-financed.
-56-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firnns                 0.0      0.5   0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0    0.0        0.5
B. Individuals            0.0     0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0   3.0    0.0         3.0
Total                  0.0     0.5   0.0  0.0  0.0   3.0    0.0        3.5
1\ Induding contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V
of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
-57-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
1. Civil works     US$5million or more      ICB                  All contracts
Less than US$5million     NCB                 First 3 contracts each year
2. Goods
a. Equipment       US$200,000 or more       ICB                  All contracts of US$200,000 or
more
Less than US$200,000      NCB
Less then US$50,000       National Shopping
b. Fumiture        US$50,000 or more         NCB
Less than US$50,000       National Shopping
c. Books I                                   National/Intemational   Prior consultation
Instructional Materials                      Shopping or Direct
Negotiations
3. Consultant
Services i
a. Firms           Equal to and more than    QCBS or CQ           Prior review (Full Review)
US$100,000
b. Individuals     Equal to and more than    Other                Prior review
US$50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$ 160 million
Selection of consultants per Guidelines on Selection and Employment of Consultants
-58-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
1. Works                   125.00                    53%
2. Goods                    80.00        Equipment, Fumiture, books and
instructional materials: 100% of
foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory
cost), and 70% of other local
expenditures for items procured
locally
3. Consultant Services      3.40              International and local
consultants: 100%
4. Staff Development        23.00                    100%
5. Fee                      2.44                     100%
6. Unallocated              10.16
Total                      244.00
Note: Physical and price contingencies included
Financial Manaeement and Disbursement
During project appraisal, a financial management assessment was carried out at the Ministry of Education,
which will implement the project. Details are found in the section on "Institutional and Implementation
Arrangements" in the Project Description Summary. Additional details are found below.
Organization and staffing: DPSD will, as in previous Bank-fnanced projects, be responsible for all
project accounting matters, and the preparation of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) and
withdrawal applications, and their submission to the Bank. At present the accounting function is carried
out by an experienced Accounting Officer (AO) and an Assistant Accountant (AA). Given the additional
workload imposed by the project, MOE/EPU will recruit an additional full-time Project Accountant (PA),
to be appointed in March 1999. Additional computers and updated software will be purchased to facilitate
the production of the PMRs.
Funds Flow and Accounting: Project accounts will be prepared from the same payment vouchers which
form the basis of input to the Accountant General's (AG) central government accounting records.
Authorization of payment vouchers will be carried out by the AO of DPSD, data input will be handled by
the PA, and payments will be made by the AG's office located in MOE. As part of the annual budget
process, on the basis of budget plans prepared by MOE, the Treasury will allocate to MOE the counterpart
funds required for implementation of the project. From this appropriation, MOE will pre-fmance eligible
project expenses, which are not in first instance wholly paid from the Special Account (SA). DPSD will at
no time have direct control over disbursement of these counterpart funds but will receive details from the
AG's office of all such payments. This will enable DPSD to complete data entry to the project accounting
records.
-59-



Reporting: DPSD will be responsible for the preparation of quarterly PMRs, with appropriate inputs
provided by the various units of DPSD. Project accounting information will be made available by the
Accounting Unit; information required to complete the output monitoring reports will be obtained from
DPSD's Technical Unit in respect of the construction and upgrading of polytechnics, or from JKR (Public
Works Department) for other civil works undertaken under the project. The Procurement Unit of DPSD
will be responsible for producing the information required for the procurement management reports. The
PA will be responsible for ensuring that all information received from other units and departments is
consistent with the financial information derived from the accounting records. The format of the PMR, as
discussed and agreed during negotiations, is included in the Project Implementation Plan. Prior to
submission to the Bank, the completed PMR will be reviewed by EPRD as part of its responsibility for
monitoring the progress of project implementation. The annual financial statements will comprise the
year-end Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds Statement (Report 1 -A of the PMR), a project balance
sheet at year-end, comparative figures from the previous year, and notes to the financial management. The
accounts will be prepared, in accordance with GOM accounting regulations, on a modified cash basis.
Audit: The Auditor General will be responsible for the annual audit of the project financial statements, the
eligibility of expenses disbursed on the basis of the PMR, and Special Account transactions. The audited
financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each GOM fiscal year.
The annual audit will be conducted in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank and under
terms of reference agreed with the Bank.
Special Account: SA for MOE will be opened at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The SA will
be managed by MOE's in-situ AG, who will provide details of payments made from the SA in order to
allow DPSD to complete data entry for project accounting records. As MOE has not used SA facilities in
the past, written procedures and guidelines for the SA will be issued by the AG, in respect of movements on
SA and withdrawals of loan proceeds.
Disbursements: Disbursement of the proceeds of the loan will be made against the expenditure categories
shown in Table C. Withdrawals from the loan account will be made on the basis of quarterly PMRs.
Withdrawal Applications to replenish the SA will be prepared by the AO at DPSD and submitted to the
Bank along with the PMR, within 45 days of the end of the preceding quarter. Documentation which
authenticates the expenditures reported in the PMR will be retained at DPSD for review by the auditor and
Bank missions as indicated in the Loan Agreement.
Status of GOM and DPSD compliance with audit covenants in existing Bank-financed projects:
At the present time GOM has two ongoing Bank-financed projects: MY-PE-4312, Health Development
Project and MY-PE-4309 Polytechnic Development Project. The latter is being implemented by DPSD.
The audited financial statements for the Polytechnic Development Project have, over the last few years been
submitted late. In particular, the 1995 audited accounts were overdue by 15 months. Both projects are,
however, currently in compliance with the Bank's audit covenants, with the Health Development Project
having submitted its most recent audited accounts well in advance of the due date.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
N/A
Special account:
See above
-60-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
rject Schedule"                                   PAane
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      07/01/98                    07/01/98
Appraisal mission departure              01/18/99                    11/28/98
Negotiations                             02/01/99                    02/08/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            06/01/99
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education (MOE)
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Niame                                    Seilt
Rozany Deen                       Sr. Project Economist, Task Team Leader
William Cooper                    Procurement/Polytechnic Specialist*
Yoko Nagashima                    Operations Analyst
Negda Jahanshahi                  Economist, Economic/Financial Analysis
Honchan Chai                      Monitoring and Evaluation
Gordon Hunting                    Polytechnic Specialist
Allan Schofield                   Higher Education Specialist
Pramod Agrawal                    Social Assessment Specialist
Rajiv Aggarwal                    Architect
Lee Kiong Hock                    Economic/Financial Analysis
Kah Hie Lau                       MIS Specialist
Kazuko Ogawa                      Sr. Operations Officer*
Hena Mukherjee                    Sr. General Educator
Jacqueline Baptist                Economist
Kin Bing Wu                       Student Loan Specialist
Kayoko Shibata                    Knowledge Management Specialist
Shobhana Sosale                   Professional Development and Training Coordinator
Kathy Li Tow Ngow                 Team Assistant
Parivash Mehrdadi                 Team Assistant
Margaret Png                      Counsel
Omowunmi Ladipo                   Financial Management Specialist
Wijaya Wickrema                   Financial Management Specialist
Jack Fringer                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Rosa Muleta                       Disbursement Officer
* Former Task Team Leaders
-61-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project COSTAB file*
Project Procurement Plan*
Project Implementation Plan*
B. Bank Staff Assessments
C. Other
Studies done during preDaration
Ahmad, R., Singh, J. and Sing Buan, C, 1998, Sector Paper on Education
Marimuthu, T., Singh, J. and Sing Buan, C, 1998, Sector Paper on Higher Education Policies, Practices and
Issues: A Background Paper
Ministry of Education Malaysia, 1998, Social Assessment Study
Other
Economic Planning Unit, Prime Minister's Department (Tertiary Education Chapter), July 1998, National
Economic Recovery Plan: Agenda for Action
Educational Planning and Research Division Ministry of Education, 1994, Education in Malaysia
Educational Planning and Research Division, Ministry of Education, Malaysia (in collaboration with
Harvard Institute of International Development) (December 1996), Cost Analysis in the Malaysian
Education System
Kiong H. Lee, 1998, Malaysia's Educational Structure
Malaysia, Seventh Malaysia Plan 1996-2000
Ministry of Education Malaysia, Annual Report 96
Ministry of Human Resources Malaysia 1997, Malaysia: Labor and Human Resources Statistics 1992-1996
World Bank, October 1992, Malaysia: Third Primary and Secondary Education Sector Project (SAR)
World Bank, February, 1993, Malaysia: Polytechnic development Project (SAR)
World Bank, February 1995, Malaysia: Meeting labor needs: more workers and better skills (Sector
Report)
World Bank, Malaysia: May 1998, Facing the Challenge of Globalization. EAP Region (CEM)
*Including electronic files
-62-



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALAYSIA: Education Sector Support Project
Difference between expectec
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions  disbursements at
Project ID    FY  Borrower             Purpose                        IBRD       IDA    Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 82
MY-PE-4312   1994 GOVrOFMALAYSIA       HEALTH                         50.00      000      0.00    27.83   16.83    0.00
MY-PE4309   1993 GOVrOFMALAYSIA        POLYTECHNICDEV                 107.00     0.00     0.00    44.68   37.67    0.00
Total:   157.00    0.00      0.00    72.51   54.50    0.00
Active      Closed
Projects    Projects      Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):     84.49    2,907.84    2,992.33
of which has been repaid:     2.32    1,979.41    1,981.73
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:    154.68       928.42    1,083.10
Amount sold:       0.00      153.40       153.40
of which repaid:     0.00      153.40       153.40
Total Undisbursed:     72.51         0.00       72.51
MALAYSIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1-Dec-1998
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1984               SEAVI MVB                        0.00     0.00       0.01   0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00
1990               21st Century                     3.68     0.00     0.00     2.78     3.68    0.00     0.00     2.78
1991               SEAVI MVB II                     0.00     0.00     0.62     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.62     0.00
1991               VIM MVB II                       0.00     0.00     0.02     0.00    0.00    0.00      0.02     0.00
Total Portfolio:          3.68     0.00     0.65    2.78     3.68    0.00     0.64     2.78
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               TITAN VINYL                       18.50    0.00     3.50   34.02
Total Pending Comrnitment:       18.50    0.00     3.50    34.02
-63-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALAYSIA: Education Sec.tor Support Project
~POVERTY On4 SOCIAL                                             Asia~  middla#
Malaysia    PacifIc   lncom9.      Development diamond'
Population, mo-year (millions)                          21.0     1.753       571                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     4,680       970      4,20~
GNP (Alas method, UiS$ billiwns)                        98.3      V~07      2.564
A"er4Wannual growth, 1991-97
Popuaetion (%)                                           23   .3  11           .5
Labor force%).                                           2~7        1.         9       GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most tenant estimate (latest.year Avefltbie. 1941-97)                                 capita                        enrollment
Povety (%4of pq#ulation belvvw*natirnlpvryfn)f           18
Ijrbop popuhatiot (% of(gtelpopulation)                  55         32        73
Life expectWny at blith (YearsY                          72         89.1    i 7G.
Infant mortality (per 1,000/ire birt hI)..  1~~I1     36        30
Child n4ltiutrition (% of children undert)               23         110.:                        Access to safe water
Access tosafe water (%*f populg0i9n) :.   .                         8         79
Grolitprimay(5   enof                                                                      -Maltinaysi*a  *.111 ~ 1
Gross rimaryenrolMent (% ofsaft00l-agopopulation)    91        116       107               Mlyi
Milo                                                   92        118         ,,              Upper-middle-income grou
Femrale                                                92        118
X&Y ECONOMIC RAT0O$ stid LONG.TERK TR5WN
496  986       1996      16
Economic ratios'
GOP (USSi~billons)     .                       15       27.7      99.3       98.5~
Gross tdomestio.investment/GOP                23.8      26.0      41.6:      42.8
ExpOrts of goods asd srceGO497                          5.        920         43Trade
Gross domestic Savipgs/GOP                    33.7      32.1      42.61~~]   44.4
caross natiotnal SavingslGDP                  29.7      25.6       33.1]
Cu6shienaccount balancelGOP                    5 0      -0.4       -5.2      .4,9
lnWt#et paymentslQDP                           1.3       47         1.4       1.6     Dmsi                          Investment
ToaldeWtGDP                                  23.5     761.9                          Svig
T'otsdebt sevice/exports                       6.9      21.8       612
Prese"  valeof debV/GDP                          .         .      4.
Preen vaueofdebt/eports..                              ,
Indebtedness
(averge annual growth)
GNP per capita            3.2      ~~~~~~~6.2  U.        .                          Lp per-middle-incorie group
fports of' goods AndI ervices         1.0      14.6       .         9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GOP)                        1~~~~~1976  1936    1996s      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                   26.8      19.2       12.8      12.1     3
Industry                                      32.3      35.5      46.2       47.3    20
Manufacturing                                17.7     18.5       34.3      35.7     1              .         %
services                                      40.9      45.3       41.0      40.6      0 
Private consumption                           50.9      51.0      46.0       44.6            92   93   9,4  95   De   97
General government consumption                15.4      16.9       11.4      11.0                --aoGI        --OGOP
Imports of goods and services                 39.6      50.2       91.0      92.8
(average annal growth)          1976-86  1987-97       1996       1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports I%)
Agriculture                                    3.1       2.3        2.2       3.0     3
Industry                                       7.3      11.2       11.2       5.,2
Manufacturing                                 7.3     13.6       12.2      12.5
Services                                       7. 1      6.8        7.7      12.
Private consumption                            5.8       8.4        6.0       4.7
General government consumption                 7.0       7.4        1.4       4.8
Gross domestic investment                      8.5      17.0        5.8      12.9             2    93   94   95   09   97
Imports of goods and services                  9.8      18.0        4.2      10 1                -Exports    --l-mports
Gross national product                         5.8       8.7        8.4       7.5,
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates. 1/ Poverty estimate is from 1989.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
-64-



Malaysia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
197d     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                         O.8        3.6
Implicit GDP deflator                         12.7     -8.6       5 2       2 9q 
Government finance                                                                  2
(6 of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                        27.3      23.6      23.9             92    93    94    95    9s   97
Current budget balance                                 -0.8        6.1      7.4             -     GDP deflator  -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 0.0        1.1      2.6
TRADE
(USS millions)                               1976     1986       199S      1997      Export and import levels (USS mnillions)
Total exports (fob)                                  13,882    76,548    77,700      100,000
Fuel                                                2,092      2,867
Rubber                                              1.233      1.395     1.419     B0,000
Manufactures                                        8.009    62.997    63.558       s0_000
Total imports (cif)                                  I 10.81 8    78,425    78.530   4,0
Food                                                1,210      3,066
Fuel and energy                                     1,319      3,874               20.000
Capital goods                                       4.873    47.580                    o_
91  92  93  94  99  9o  97
Export price Index (1995=100)                   ..      41         94
Importpriceindex(1995-100)                               33        89         .iExports                      Eamports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..    122        107
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services               65691   15,637    91,387    92 463        0
Imports of goods and services                4,644   14.016    90,803    91 512      -2
Resource balance                             1,047    1,821       584       951       2
Netincome                                     -428   -1,781     -4,613    -4451      -4
Net current transfers                         -39   37  -1.129                               111111
Current account balance                       580      -123    -5,158    -4,800
Financing items (net)                         218    1,578      7.640    -1 200
Changes in net reserves                      -798   -1.455      -2.482    6.000      _
memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)                         27,700    21.700
Conversion rate (DEC, loceUSS)                 2.5      2. 6       2.5       2.8
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of total debt, 1996 (USS millions
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         2.713   21 880    39,777
IBRD                                        308      908        907       758                      A:907  D:497
IDA                                           0         0         0         0          G  108E ,1
Total debt service                            404    3.527      7.657
IBRD                                         37      182        231       183
IDA                                           0         0         0         0
Composition of net resource fows
Official grants                               6       88          7
Officiai creditors                          118       -57      -777
Private creditors                           310      317      3.243
Foreign direct investment                   381      489      4.500                                             24,489
Portfolio equity                              0        0      4,353
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                 104      319          0         0     A - IBRD                      E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                47       66         85        51      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   f - Private
Principal repayments                         14      109        161       126      C IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                    33       -43       -76       -75
Interest payments                            23       73         70        57
Net transfers                                10    -116        -146      -132
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/15/98
-65-



IBRD 30074
100                                                            102'                                                            104'
MA,LAYSIA
EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
STATES TARGETED BY THE PROJECT FOR
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION (PHASE 1)
O -  43 KEY PROJECT TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
THAILAND                                                      A   UPGRADING OF POLYTECHNICS (6)
/Perlis ,)                                                               *      NEW  POLYTECHNIC KOTA KINABALU
Kan)ar  ,'.
Langkau  PERLIS/ Po5"              )                                                                                SELECTED TOWNS
g 'PERLIS/        Po-  adongq
Temp  VV,   '                                 i'PasirMas / Tumpat                    STATE CAPITALS
Alor Setar(   Kat                                                          Ko, a Bahru               3     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-6       -'-  Setor                        i                          X                ,>                     . .  EDUCATION DISTRICT BOUNDARIES 6 -
KEDAH          ,.               ._ )j   PasrirPuteh / Bachak                      -      STATE BOUNDARIES
Sai,ngjSk (     ,r  /         '5_*r    TMerah/    ,                          --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
K M,da/             '  )                      '  Machang/Jeli
P., PINANG                        (                             r 0 0 X:                 Besut
PE oA6M    UnS.r P,,in1                    Perak Hulu       7ual.  Terengganu
Rltin Educetion  O Terga nB.                                       KELANTAN               ...JOO 
Center for Science PV19    I Bar                                                                    eag
end Mathematks S. Proi Selatan
Ulu Kelantan              ereuggan
PERAK                                                        TEEQ,U
K Kangsarg
Altorq/       Ipoh                                                            Maran 
Stroit of Malacco                        Knra   Cam
S. Manjung                                                                          Kemama   -I
Jeronstut
-4'                          ~~~~~~~~~~Hilir Perak   lall ngau                                                                                  4 \    M<AtG   tti9i;t    0
4.                                                          ~~~~~~~~                ~~~~~PA HANGKuno
A0juantan
0    20   40    60   80   100
KILOMETERS
This mnap was produced by the Map Design Unit
of The World Bank. The boundaries, colors,   ShahI m                                         -   LU   P
denominations and any other iniormotion shown on
thismap do not imply, on the port of The Wrld Bank                        K Pilah/Jnmpal/
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory,  i   '-.,
or any endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                         N
100 V                                             La g Seremban NEGERI
MYANMAk' THAILAND                         '                Port     n                  TR0,mmPbou
I-  -B''~~~~~  'T'~     ~ ~ Prt DcksonoA
,- CAMBODIA      Chhn
!  Li'    | !_;;,4gVeJNM   e       0443HILiP                         Mlk<            1                                        Mersing
Fu, Deti,l See   iMu r
AreoA ofMop  IBRD 30093         ,                                                                        Keluang
.  ?  A I N~~AL  SIA                          -2                                                    Bt    JOHOR,                                  2'-
Strait of Malaicca                                                                ] T
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. n .  P'c,                      . i. On              -,antionh 
,l    c        ~~~~ ~~INDONESIX               inohor Bht                  ohr   KMf rgu
N\   INDONESI otrAar
O C E A N  d      O  b       *                                        .   t                                        iSINGAPORE,)
-o>.z  Sitr<'  ]02'  -_,---                                          EU       19<049
c  ,                                                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EBRUARY 1999



110'                                   112                                  114                                116                    ;           118  his map was produced by
the Map Design Unit of The
Kudat                       World Bank. The boundaries,
Kudat               ~~~~~~~colors, denominations and
any ather information shawn
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                      an this ma d  o ml,a
Pitas               the part o The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the
EDUCATION  SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                                        Kofa.tud( KOtNa<z                   legual  anyeter_r\ity,or
Moarudu                     f any endorsement or acceptance
~-'    STATES TARGETED BY THE PROJECT FOR                                                           Tuaran '   -
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION (PHASE 1)                                                  Kota Kinab   Iij,              Beluran                                 6
0      KEY PROJECT TRAINING INSTITUTIONS                                                      Penompang\"I I'-  nau                da
A     UPGRADING OF POLYTECHNICS (6)                                                             Pupas; 4TMbunan
*     NEW POLYTECHNIC KOTA KINABAW                                              Membakut\'.'_     .             SABAH
t    STATE CAPITALS                                                           Labuan     ., .'Kenngaua             Kinabatongan
Lcshod Datu
     NATIONAL CAPITAL
EDUCATiON DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                               Nb                      o 
INTENATINALBOUNDARIESSepoo
<  '   110                112                                  114                                                                   -  t-- !;' 4\4.S>;->./;,99,}  , O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11'  18'4-
M _   .NMAR? THAILAND   .  .
0    40    80   120   160   200                                                                                                           AMOI              5ou fh 
KILOMETER~S                                                                                      j//                                VIETNAM  ~,a            PHILIPPINES
F< tsDe4.i S~e     Area of M p
2'  -~~~~~~~~~~              1127 ~~~~~~~~~~Muksth                                                                            K0  MALAYS7A
(1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~wott ~~~~~~~~~Ksopit                           ,                         2- GAO
Sd  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ JN  D I A  N                   INDONESIA                            o
C  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
110'                             112'                                 114'   LNO ESAOC                                                                             -j  10'



