           Document of
         The World Bank




                                    Report No: 31811-MA

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (SCL-44510)

              ON A

              LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$244.0 MILLION

                TO

            MALAYSIA

             FOR AN

EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT




            June 9, 2005

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective March 15, 2005)

                         Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit (MR)
                               MR 1.00 = US$ .2631
                              US$ 1.00 = MR 3.80

                                FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 ­    December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
EIS                Executive Information System (MOE)
EMIS               Education Management Information System (MOE)
EPU                Economic Planning Unit
ERR                Economic Rate of Return
ESSP               Education Sector Support Project
ICB                International Competitive Bidding
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
ICT                Information Communication Technology
IT                 Information Technology
KPI                Key Performance Indicators
MIS                Management Information System
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOHE               Ministry of Higher Education
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MTR                Mid-term Review
N.B.F.             Not Bank Financed
NCB                National Competitive Bidding
NPV                Net Present Value
PAD                Project Appraisal Document
PCD                Project Concept Document
PCC                Project Coordinating Committee (MOE)
PSR                Project Status Report
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PMIS               Polytechnic Management Information System (TECHED)
QAG                Quality Assurance Group
STW                School-to-Work Program
TECHED             Department of Technical Education (Polytechnic)
TEDEIS             Technical Education Executive Information System
TOT                Training-of-Trainers Program
VSAS               Vocational Subjects in Academic Schools Program

                        Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                      Country Director     Ian C. Porter
                       Sector Manager      Christopher J. Thomas
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Omporn Regel

                                          MALAYSIA
                              Education Sector Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P058681                                                  Project Name: Education Sector Support Project
Team Leader: Omporn Regel                                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Education Sector Support Project                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-44510
   Country/Department: MALAYSIA                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Tertiary education (76%); Primary education (20%); Central
                            government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Education for the knowledge economy (P);
                            Social analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/10/1998                                     Effective: 06/09/1999                06/09/1999
     Appraisal: 01/15/1999                                         MTR: 07/30/2001                  07/30/2001
      Approval: 03/30/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jen-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Ngozi N. Okonjo-Iweala
Sector Manager:                 Christopher J. Thomas                          Alan Ruby
Team Leader at ICR:             Omporn Regel                                   Rozany R. Deen
ICR Primary Author:             Robert L. McGough


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project fully met and, in some cases, exceeded its stated development objectives. The overall objective
was to assist the Borrower in: (a) mitigating the adverse impact of the regional economic crisis on its
education sector; and (b) its medium-term economic recovery by developing and enhancing student
technical skills.

Specifically, the project sought to: (a) improve access to Basic Education, primarily in poor and
underdeveloped areas through the construction of new education facilities; (b) improve the quality of Basic
Education by upgrading teacher qualifications and teaching skills, and the development of instructional
materials, and strengthening of existing pilot school-to-work programs; (c) increase student capacity of
polytechnics through the construction and equipping of a new polytechnic institute in Kota Kinabalu,
Sabah, and the upgrading, expansion, and equipping of six existing project polytechnics to create additional
capacity; (d) improve the quality and relevance of Polytechnic Education through the provision of staff
training, and the revision and development of teaching curricula and materials; (e) strengthen the
information, planning and management systems (MIS) of the polytechnics; (f) improve the national
Education Management Information System (EMIS), and expand its usage, especially in the states of
Sabah and Sarawak; (g) enhance MOE management and capacity to conduct policy and data analysis, and
strategic planning; (h) improve Higher Education through the training of university lecturers, and the
review and recommendation of appropriate funding methodologies for Higher Education, the study of
student enrollment expansion and its potential impact on education quality, and the development of
information technology strategies; and (i) enhance the Borrower's project management capacity by
increasing the number of staff at the project management level and providing equipment.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's development objectives were not revised. This was significant considering the unstable
situation and unforeseen results of the Asian Financial Crisis (1997-1999) which resulted in the
restructuring of many projects in the EAP Region.


3.3 Original Components:
The project supported the improvement of education access and quality through the implementation of three
major components. All components were judged to: (a) have strong relevance to the project's objectives; (b)
be well within the capacity of the implementing agency; and (c) have been designed to reflect the `lessons
learned' from previous Bank projects in Malaysia and the EAP Region.

Component 1. Basic Education ­ There are two subcomponents. The first addresses the need for more
access to basic education. The second addresses the need for quality improvements in basic education.

Subcomponent 1.1 ­ Improve access to basic education, primarily in poor and undeveloped areas, through
construction of 35 primary schools, 25 secondary schools, 600 staff houses and student hostels to
accommodate about 2,700 students and provision of equipment and furniture.

Subcomponent 1.2 ­ Improve quality of basic education by upgrading teacher qualifications and teaching
skills through training, the development of curricula and instructional materials, and the strengthening of
the existing pilot school-to-work programs.

Component 2. Polytechnic Education ­ There are three subcomponents. The first addresses the need for
more capacity in the system. The second addresses the need for improvements in quality, and the third
addresses the need to improve the management of TECHED and the associated polytechnics.




                                                     - 2 -

Subcomponent 2.1 ­ Increase student capacity of polytechnics by: (a) constructing and equipping a new
polytechnic institute at Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, with a design capacity of about 3600 students; and (b)
upgrading, expanding, and equipping of six project polytechnics to create a total of about 15,000 new
student places.

Subcomponent 2.2 ­ Improve the quality and relevance of polytechnic education through the provision of
training to about 1,130 polytechnic staff, and the revision of existing, and development of new curricula
and materials.

Subcomponent 2.3 ­ Strengthening the information, planning and management systems of polytechnics
through the provision of consultant services and equipment.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening ­ There are four subcomponents. The first addresses the need
to improve and expand the use of the existing Education Management Information System (EMIS). The
second addresses the need to enhance the management and academic/technical capacity of MOE to conduct
policy and data analysis, and strategic planning. The third subcomponent provides for further
improvements in higher education staff, funding, policy development, and information technology (IT)
development. The fourth subcomponent addresses the Borrower's need to improve project management
capacity.

Subcomponent 3.1 ­ Improve the Borrower's existing Education Management Information System (EMIS)
and expand its usage, especially in Sabah and Sarawak, through the provision of consultants' services,
equipment, furniture, training and instructional materials.

Subcomponent 3.2 ­ Enhance MOE staff's management skills, academic qualifications, and their capacity
to conduct policy and data analysis, and strategic planning.

Subcomponent 3.3 ­ Improve higher education by: (a) enhancing academic qualifications of university
lecturers through the provision of training; and (b) assessing the development and implementation of
funding methodologies, impact of student enrollment on education quality, and information technology (IT)
development strategies.

Subcomponent 3.4 ­ Enhance the Borrower's project management capacity by increasing the number of
staff at the project management level and providing equipment.

3.4 Revised Components:
ESSP components were not formally revised although there were some modifications made to the targets
associated with Key Performance Indicators (KPI). During project implementation, some targets were
increased as it became clear that project efficiencies allowed for more output.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to a QAG review, or rating at entry.

The ICR rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. The rating is based on a number of findings: (a) from
the beginning, the project was strongly focused on agreed-upon development objectives. This focus did not
change throughout the duration of the project; (b) the focus of the project was closely aligned with the
Borrower's sector development priorities as described in Malaysia's most recent five-year plans. These
attuned relationships remained consistent throughout the project's implementation period; (c) the project
design is clearly consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); (d) the Borrower clearly
considers the project to have been timely; and (e) has demonstrated a strong sense of ownership. It was
implemented at a time when there were severe financial constraints, and the sector would have been
adversely affected if the project had not been implemented; (e) the project design was formulated to respond



                                                      - 3 -

to a well researched and documented set of lessons learned from previous Bank projects in the sector; (f)
the project components were designed to be fully sustainable by the Ministry of Education, and (g) the cost
estimates in the original project design have proven to be accurate.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The project supported the establishment of significant capacity in the two subsectors (basic and polytechnic
education). This has increased student access for poor and disadvantaged students in many areas where
there were unmet needs. It also supported significant quality improvements (in staff, instructional design,
use of ICTs in education, curriculum, management, and research) which, in turn, improved the two
subsectors' internal efficiency. It is also evident that the project made a significant contribution to the
Borrower's future planning efforts.

In the basic education subsector, the project's pilot efforts to develop and demonstrate effective
school-to-work programs has resulted in the MOE decision to integrate strong programs (VSAS) into all
secondary schools to support hard-to-teach students and students who must seek employment skills during
secondary education. When fully implemented, it is expected that these programs will produce a significant
number of trained entry-level workers for the labor market.

In the polytechnic subsector, the funded studies (tracer studies, master-plan study and small scale studies)
provided a level of impact that far outweighed the investment that was put into them. They provided
TECHED and MOE with a better understanding of a wide range of important issues in the subsector. For
instance, they provided accurate information relating to the perceptions and needs of employers, a principle
requirement for all future planning in the subsector. This included: (a) feedback on recent graduates; (b)
estimates of existing and emerging demands for various types of trained workers; (c) estimates of the types
of instructional programs that will be needed; and (d) estimates of specific skills that must be included in
the various instructional programs. This information, in-turn provided the management data required to
plan for future polytechnic development in Malaysia. These inputs became a part of the foundation upon
which the future plans for polytechnic development were based. They were particularly useful to
TECHED and MOE during their discussions regarding the possibility that TECHED might become a
major unit within the new MOHE, which has happened (2004). TECHED plans to update the above
mentioned studies on a scheduled basis so that they can remain principal inputs to future planning in
TECHED/MOHE.

The project was judged to have met, or exceeded its overall development objectives. This assessment was
based on: (a) satisfactory to highly satisfactory project outputs; (b) strong Government commitment and
participation throughout the implementation of the project; (c) good private sector participation as
employers of graduates, supporting contractors and vendors; (d) effective implementation by MOE's
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) and Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and participating
institutions; (e) strong indications of client satisfaction with the overall implementation of the project and
its outcomes; and (f) strong indications of continued sustainability for all project components. These
indications are most apparent when the Borrower continues to place strong priority for continued
improvements in access and quality throughout education sector and when the GOM systematically
increases budgets to support those improvements.

Based on these outcomes, the overall outcomes of the project are rated as satisfactory.




                                                         - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Basic Education

Subcomponent 1.1 ­ Improve access to basic education, primarily in poor and undeveloped areas,
through construction. Thirty-three (33) primary schools (97% of the target of 34) have been completed.
The remaining school was removed from the project because of severe site-related problems. This last
school was completed by MOE using its own funds. All of the planned 26 secondary schools (100% of
target) have been completed. The project also established 447 teacher's quarters (75% of target) in 44
locations and about 2700 student hostel units (98% of target) in 16 locations. All construction was judged
to be of good to excellent quality by the EPU and MOE's consultant architects. The outputs of this
subcomponent were rated as satisfactory.

Subcomponent 1.2 ­ Improve quality of basic education by upgrading teacher qualifications and
teaching skills. In general, the targets in this subcomponent were either met or exceeded. As staff quality
is recognized as a key factor in the effective implementation of all education models, it is expected that the
staff trained through this project, will significantly improve the implementation of the well researched,
funded, and managed instructional models that have been developed by MOE for Basic Education. In
addition, the types of teacher training supported by the project, reflected the identified needs for: (a) staff
quality improvement, (b) skill shortages in available staff, and (c) new/emerging changes in educational
technology. The overall rating of the subcomponent is highly satisfactory.

Staff Development and Instructional Materials Development*. For specific outputs relating to the
training conducted, see the following table and Annex 1.

Type of Teacher Training                                            Target     Actual     % of Target
Smart School (14 weeks)                                             1053       1315       125
Computer Education (14 weeks)                                       1290       1291       100
Computer Courses for Master Trainers (short courses)                1800       1854       103
English for Master Teachers (short courses)                         1000       1050       105
Special First Degree Program (2.5 years)                            276        273        99
ICT Course (short courses)                                          2400       4800       200
Professional Development Course (short courses)                     220        191        87
STW/VSAS Teacher Training (short course)                            382        382        100
* In some training programs, teachers were introduced to existing instructional materials that would be
  used in their classrooms. In other programs, instructional materials were developed by the teachers as a
  part of their training.

Pilot School-to-Work Program (STW). The STW and VSAS programs are designed to reach
hard-to-teach students by offering them both relevant skill training and employment. In 1998/1999, the
initial pilot supported 25 schools. With the support of the project, the program was expanded to 100
schools in year 2000. In that one year, the program produced 2,654 beneficiaries out of a target of 3,000
under-achiever secondary students (about 89% of target). The success of the STW program led to the
development of a national program known as the Vocational Subjects in Academic Schools Program
(VSAS), a significant enhancement to the initial project plan. The VSAS was introduced as part of regular
school offerings in early 2002. A tracer study, completed in August 2002, showed that virtually all of the
STW and VSAS students interviewed were productively employed, had a higher level of self esteem, and a



                                                        - 5 -

positive attitude toward their future careers.   The programs also positively contributed to the overall
internal and external efficiency of the secondary school system in Malaysia.

Component 2. Polytechnic Education ­ There are three subcomponents. Overall, this component was
rated as satisfactory.

Subcomponent 2.1 ­ Increase student capacity of polytechnics by: (a) constructing and equipping a
new polytechnic institute at Kota Kinabalu, Sabah; and (b) upgrading, expanding, and equipping six
existing project polytechnics. The new polytechnic was completed in December 2004 at a cost of about
RM438.2 million (about RM22.4 million less than the original project allocation). The quality of
construction was judged to range from satisfactory to excellent. The student capacity of the new
polytechnic is about 3600 students.

Six other existing polytechnics were also upgraded, expanded and re-equipped. All work on these
polytechnics was completed by the end of December 2004. The quality of the work was judged to be
satisfactory by EPU and MOE's consultant architects. This effort added about 15,000 new student places
to the capacity of the polytechnic system (100% of target). Since new institutions were not required to
establish this new capacity, it seems likely that the effort will also improve the internal efficiency to the
polytechnic system. This subcomponent is rated as satisfactory.

This component required extensive contracting for civil works, goods and services, at both NCB and ICB
levels. Major construction activities were located at seven separate sites/locations, and, as typical, there
were problems with the implementation of these activities (e.g., labor shortages, weather delays, lack of
supply delivery (in particular, steel), slippages in construction schedules, and contractor compliance
problems). There were also more than 44 separate tenders for goods and services required. Many of these
tenders were for high technology-based equipment that required extensive research prior to the declaration
of specifications in the bid requests. Due to some delays in construction, as the goods were procured and
received, there were associated concerns for proper storage and security of the goods. The CCP, PIU, and
TECHED all showed strong concern for these problems as they were encountered, and they took aggressive
action to address them.

These efforts resulted in the addition of about 18,600 new training places to the polytechnic system (about
100% of the planned target). Even so, it is estimated (source: masterplan studies, tracer studies) that the
polytechnics will continue to have high demand for their graduates, and that there will be a need for
additional installed capacity to meet future labor market needs for skilled workers and technicians.
TECHED is currently reviewing this data and other inputs and will decide in the near future if there will be
a need for new or expanded polytechnics. All of the project supported institutions are currently operational
and functioning well.

Subcomponent 2.2 ­ Improve the quality and relevance of polytechnic education through the
provision of training to polytechnic staff, and the revision of existing, and development of new
curricula and materials. All polytechnic staff and curriculum development programs are complete. The
polytechnic system has strongly benefited from its ongoing staff development program through the last
several Bank projects, including this one. At the national and institutional level, virtually all of the key
management positions are now staffed with well trained and experienced educators, many with Master's
and PhD degrees in engineering and technical education. Strong, professionally trained research teams are
now employed in the polytechnic system. In the past several years, the findings of these teams have become
increasingly significant as inputs to national level planning. Successful programs have been introduced to
revamp the subsector's curricula and to introduce many new programs of instruction. Related to this


                                                       - 6 -

effort, TECHED has introduced the use of simulation technology and ICTs in teaching. Management
information systems (MIS) have also been introduced to support instructional management. The annual
use of tracer studies has been institutionalized across the subsector to assist in the determination of needs
and the quality of program delivery.

Placement rates continue to be among the highest in the world (>90% on the average) and employer
satisfaction is good, and continuing to improve (findings of the small scale studies). In several programs,
the outputs exceeded planned targets, and in general, the quality of all programs has been rated as high
(source: small scale studies and tracer studies for past three years). The overall rating for this
subcomponent is highly satisfactory.


Staff Development. TECHED produced 406 teacher graduates with a Master's of Technical Education
Degree; 39 teacher graduates with a Master's of Science Degree; and 20 teacher graduates with a Master's
of Business Degree. Furthermore, 394 staff completed undergraduate degrees (B.A and B.Sc.), and about
73 staff also completed Diploma programs. Finally, about 454 staff completed various short-term training
courses to improve the skills of career guidance and counseling, administrator/heads of departments, and
the upgrading of teacher skills in new technologies. Overall, the project trained 1,386 staff in a variety of
administrative, pedagogical and technical areas. This exceeds the planned target of 1,130 staff trained
(about 123% of target).

Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development. The project conducted an extensive review of
the national polytechnic curricula. It also converted the curricula to the semester system. Both of these
major efforts were completed by June 2002. The project selected 63 courses for review. From these
courses, 762 existing subjects were fully updated. A total of 299 new curriculum modules were also
developed (200% of target). The system used to prepare modules proved to be particularly effective. As a
result, TECHED produced a book titled, Writing and Usage of Modules. This documented curriculum
development approach received widespread recognition and use in other education subsectors and received
international attention. Finally, numerous small staff development workshops were also conducted
throughout the project's implementation period. These workshops were primarily focused on the use of
multi-media and teaching materials development.

Subcomponent 2.3 ­ Strengthening the information, planning and management systems of
polytechnics. In this subcomponent five activities were implemented. The rating for this subcomponent is
satisfactory.

Tracer Studies. All three of the planned student graduate tracer studies (2002, 2003, and 2004) have been
completed (100% of target). Tracer studies for years 2003 and 2004 were financed out of local budgets.
In all cases, the studies were well done and timely. The findings of these studies were well reported,
documented and disseminated. This effort clearly demonstrates that TECHED recognizes the importance of
tracer studies in technical education, and that it intends to maintain the practice as the polytechnic system
continues to develop. This activity has been fully completed (100% of target). The success of this activity
provides support to major policy reform in education. MOHE now considers tracer studies to be an
important management tool, and requires that all higher education institutions implement tracer studies of
their graduates on a regular basis.

Small Scale Studies. Six small scale studies were completed. These include:

(1) Student Satisfaction Towards Hostel Services; (2) Students' Perception Towards Library Services; (3)
The Profile of First Semester Engineering Students Who Excel in Mathematics; (4)Students Perception of
Counseling Services; (5) Command of English Language Among Final Semester Students in the



                                                       - 7 -

Polytechnics; and (6) Students' Perception Towards Various Aspects of Industrial Training.

The findings of these studies were well received by TECHED and were used extensively to support
continued feedback and improvements in the polytechnic system. The findings of these studies were
published as monographs. TECHED also noted that the effort provided significant training and experience
to its staff in the areas of field-based research, data organization and analysis. This added capacity will
have a spillover effect as other research tasks are required. This activity has been fully completed (100%
of target).

Long Term Master Plan. The Long-term Master Plan has five parts. These parts include: Part I ­ Long
Term Master Plan; Part II ­ Physical Development Plan for Project Polytechnics; Part III ­ Analysis of
Unit Costs of Polytechnics; Part IV ­ Analysis of Cost and Financing of Polytechnic Development; and
Part V ­ Review of Relationship Between the Polytechnics and the Private Sector of Post Secondary
Education and the University Sector.

Parts I and II were completed in May 2003; Parts III and IV were completed in May 2002; and Part V was
completed in May 2001. The reports and recommendations (for each part) were well received by MOE and
TECHED, and have provided significant inputs to TECHED's ongoing effort to improve the planning
processes of the polytechnic system. Findings from these studies have been, and will continue to be, used
in TECHED development planning and budget requests for future years. This long-term planning effort
has also led to more informed decision-making by TECHED regarding development needs and priorities.
TECHED has decided to institutionalize this process and will update these studies and its long term master
plans periodically. This activity has been fully completed (100% of target).

Polytechnic Management Information System (PMIS)/ Technical Education Executive Information
System (TEDEIS). The design and development of PMIS software for all modules is complete. Beta
testing of the software was completed in April 2003. A full integration test of the modules has been
completed. Subsequently, the software was installed in the participating institutions and polytechnic staffs
were trained to implement the various functions of the PMIS. This activity has been fully completed
(100% of target).

Regarding the TEDEIS, the system is complete and was successfully tested within the MOE, however, late
in the project, TECHED became part of the new Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE). Following the
move of MOHE to its new quarters in Putrajaya, the TEDEIS was reinstalled on MOHE computer network
servers, tested and accepted by TECHED and MOHE for full implementation and integration into
TECHED's PMIS.

Quality Management. The project's planned quality management activities are fully implemented.
     Programs have been implemented to:

(a) Improve the confidence of polytechnic students. Polytechnic teachers were trained to support the
     improvement of their students' self image and overall confidence. Parallel to that, polytechnic
     curricula were reviewed and upgraded to support this same objective. Subsequent follow-up studies
     found that this program improves the employability of technical education graduates while, at the same
     time reducing student turnover after employment;
(b) Establish a standardized management system for all polytechnics to enable better decision-making
     and the monitoring of efficiency and effectiveness. As part of this process, TECHED and the
     individual polytechnic institutions have obtained the internationally recognized MS ISO quality
     certification. This effort required many institutional, policy and procedural changes. Management
     related staff development programs and the successful development of the PMIS and TEDIS were all
     related to this effort. Both TECHED and the individual polytechnic management teams were awarded
     the internationally recognized MS ISO 9002 (version 1994) certificate on December 14, 2000, and



                                                        - 8 -

    were then able to meet the more strenuous requirements for MS ISO 9001 (version 2000) certificate on
    January 13, 2004;
(c) Improve management of polytechnic institutions. The implemented quality system: i) standardized the
    educational philosophy used in the polytechnics; ii) established the concept of quality as a primary goal
    of all polytechnic managers, with a view toward improving the internal efficiency of the system while,
    at the same time, enhancing the acceptance of graduates by employers (external efficiency); iii)
    established a standardized and documented process of institutional workflow; iv) adopted the
    management by objectives approach with agreed upon procedures and outcomes; v) established a
    process whereby managers systematically use key performance indicators which are monitored for all
    management functions; and vi) established procedures whereby, managers can measure various
    institutional/staff response times, thus providing information necessary to improve overall quality of
    services to both students and employers; and
(d) Ministry of Higher Education. Recognizing that the TECHED would eventually become part of the
    new MOHE, TECHED used the data and processes developed above to prepare an integration scheme
    for its move to the new ministry. This included a standardized system of processes and outcomes for
    the polytechnics. This activity provides MOHE with the confidence to support more innovation and
    flexibility as TECHED seeks to find ways to better meet the emerging needs of employers in a highly
    competitive global economy.

Component 3. Institutional Strengthening ­ There are four subcomponents. The overall rating for this
    subcomponent is satisfactory.


Subcomponent 3.1 ­ Improve the Borrower's existing Education Management Information System
(EMIS) and expand its usage, especially in Sabah and Sarawak. The MOE's existing Education
Management Information System (EMIS) has been successfully upgraded and its usage has been expanded
into the educational institutions located in Sabah and Sarawak. Associated with this effort, 774 staff
participated in Training-of-Trainers (TOT) programs (114% of original target); localized "trap and
verification' workshops were conducted for 31,605 staff (175% of target); and policy seminars and other
related EMIS workshops were conducted for 828 staff (127% of target). The rating of this subcomponent
is highly satisfactory.

Subcomponent 3.2 ­ Enhance MOE staff's management skills, academic qualifications, and their
capacity to conduct policy and data analysis, and strategic planning. To enhance MOE staff's
management skills, academic qualifications, and capacity to conduct policy and data analysis, and strategic
planning, the project provided a number of staff development programs. This subcomponent is rated as
satisfactory. These are presented in the following table:

                                                                    Target      Grads      % of Target
Doctoral Degree Program                                             15          23*        153
Masters Degree Program                                              72           136       189
Short-term Training for College Lecturers (ICT related)               414        384        93
Multiplier Effect Program                                             585        575        98
Executive Program                                                   77          102**      132
Higher Education (overseas medical faculty training)                  70         54 ***     77
* 12 students have graduated; remaining students are still in program and their continued study will be supported
      by local funding
** Included 31 senior officers (DG54 and DG48 levels) trained overseas, and 71 trained locally
*** This lower number was due to shortages in the number of available participants, and to the availability of local
      scholarships for similar training outside of the project.



                                                        - 9 -

Subcomponent 3.3 ­ Improve higher education by: (a) enhancing academic qualifications of
university lecturers; and (b) assessing the development and implementation of funding methodologies,
impact of student enrollment on education quality, and information technology (IT) development
strategies.

Higher Education was originally allocated about RM 11.0 million for staff development. In August 2000,
the decision was made to reduce this amount because MOE had not fully expended its non-project training
allocation. Subsequently, the original allocation was cut to about RM5.56 million. MOE also limited the
project to medical faculty training. About 70 faculty members were identified to receive overseas medical
training. To date 54 faculty members have completed their training in various medical fields (77% of
target). This lower number than planned is primarily due to a lack of participant availability during the
project period, and the availability of local funding for similar training outside the project.

The Government also financed a study of New Funding Methodologies for Malaysian Public Institutions
of Higher Learning. This study has been completed, reviewed and disseminated by MOE and MOHE.
The findings of this study are considered important as they provide significant recommendations for policy
reform relating to future MOHE funding.

The two remaining studies, impact of student enrollment on education quality, and information
technology (IT) development strategies were not implemented as originally planned. MOE decided to
modify its original plans when it found that similar studies were funded under TECHED, and that those
studies were significant to higher education. There were also some extenuating circumstances. The GOM
decided that MOE would be split into two ministries, MOE and MOHE. The extensive research conducted
by TECHED, would be directly beneficial to the new ministry, and thus, it did not make sense to initiate a
parallel research effort within the same ministry. The Bank team agreed with this decision. The rating of
this subcomponent is satisfactory.

Subcomponent 3.4 ­ Enhance the Borrower's project management capacity by increasing the number
of staff at the project management level and providing equipment. Throughout the duration of the
project, MOE has met its agreed upon requirement to provide additional staff, as necessary, to effectively
implement the project (this was the primary activity for this subcomponent). The project's management
was further enhanced by the establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) and its Secretariat
which proved to be effective in providing general oversight to project implementation. It should also be
noted that the PIU in DPSD was well managed and staffed and it was particularly effective in the
management of the project. The rating of this subcomponent is highly satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Net Present Value or Economic Rate of Return for the project were not estimated in the PAD, therefore,
comparisons cannot be made at the completion of the project. Annex 4 of the PAD did discuss the
shortcomings of attempting to estimate NPV and ERR for Basic Education, and did compare the cost
benefits between two project design options for capacity expansion in polytechnic education. Both options
were considered to meet the project's objective to establish 15,000 new student places in the system. The
first option was the establishment of four new institutions. The second option was the upgrading of six
existing institutions. When the two approaches were compared, it was found that the upgrading of existing
institutions was a significantly better choice. This analysis was the basis for the Government's decision to
upgrade the six existing institutions.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial Rate of Return was not calculated for this project.



                                                     - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
There were several project activities that supported institutional development impact. Although better
measures of impact will be available after the project becomes fully institutionalized, at this time, there are
some positive findings:

(a) Increase institutional capacity. National annual enrollments in primary education increased about 9%
    between 1998 and 2004. Annual secondary education enrollment increased to about 16% during those
    same years. Even more dramatic, annual polytechnic enrollments have increased more than 154%
    above the 1998 baseline enrollment of 21,979. These statistics point to a surging demand for new
    services in all subsectors.

    Existing student capacity of primary, secondary and polytechnic institutions was fully utilized in 1998
    (baseline year), and in some states (e.g., Selangor) over utilized. This has remained the case
    throughout the implementation of the project. All these statistics point to an obvious need for
    additional capacity in primary, secondary and polytechnic education. The project sought to partially
    address this need.

    Under the Basic Education Component, about 34,000 new student places were established through the
    construction of 33 primary schools and 26 secondary schools. To support these new schools, 447
    teachers' quarters, and 2,700 student hostel units were also established. Most of this capacity was
    established in disadvantaged areas where there are many unmet needs or in areas where there is a trend
    of surging over-enrollment. Under the Polytechnic Component, about 18,000 new student places were
    established within the system.

    These project activities have produced improved access to services, better facility utilization rates, and
    improved teacher/student/parent/employer satisfaction rates, and thus, improved internal efficiency. In
    the case of the polytechnic system, the increased institutional capacity will produce about 4000 trained
    technicians each year for the labor market. In the current economy which is experiencing dynamic
    growth, it is expected that these additional polytechnic graduates will have high placement rates, and
    will add significantly to the external efficiency of the polytechnic system.


(b) Enhance the quality of institutional service delivery. MOE has officially established quality as a
    major goal in the sector. Beginning in 1998 (baseline), MOE initiated wide-spread curriculum and
    instructional materials review and development at the primary, secondary and polytechnic levels. This
    has resulted in a significant refinement of basic education curricula and a virtual overhaul of
    polytechnic curricula. The result has been positive and well received by MOE, the participating
    institutions, parents, teachers and employers. Various monitoring and evaluation activities by the
    curriculum development teams and tracer studies have found that the new curricula are more
    comprehensive, effective and relevant to students, employers, and the emerging needs of Malaysia as a
    modern society.

    To further support the management of quality, MOE has increased the requirements for teacher and
    manager certification. Concurrent to this effort, the project has trained about 11,000 primary and
    secondary education staff and about 1100 polytechnic staff to effectively implement the revised
    curricula. There has also been a significant improvement in the quality of managers and key decision
    makers in MOE since the baseline year (1998). Currently, most management and other key positions
    are filled with experienced and well trained staff. Examples may be seen at all levels in primary,
    secondary and polytechnic education where large numbers of staff returning from specialized training



                                                      - 11 -

    and advanced degrees (Masters and Ph.D) have been moved into key management and academic
    positions.

    The internationally recognized ISO quality certification process has also become recognized and
    institutionalized. Almost all departments in MOE have received, or, are seeking ISO certification. In
    the case of the polytechnics (as mentioned in subcomponent 2.3 above), the TECHED (management)
    and the institutions received the MS ISO 9001 (version 2000) certification on January 2004. To seek
    this quality certification, MOE has supported many changes in management and administration. Since
    the baseline year (1998), the project has witnessed the introduction and wide-spread adoption of ICTs,
    and other modern administrative technologies (including national management information systems
    (EMIS, PMIS, TEDEIS) at the primary, secondary and polytechnic levels), the establishment of strong
    community/ employer participation in school planning and decision-making, well integrated monitoring
    and evaluation systems, introduction of sophisticated cost control and accounting practices, increased
    use of career counseling and guidance services, and the review and adjustment of staff compensation
    and benefit policies.

    These early indications of positive impact have been noted in several project supported studies,
    including: (a) tracer studies (STW, VSAS, and polytechnics (2002, 2003, and 2004); (b) all six of the
    small scale studies; and the development of long-term master plan for polytechnic education (5 studies).
    As mentioned earlier, additional measures of institutional development impact will not be available in
    the near future as MOE is just now bringing the new institutions and many of the programs on-line.
    Furthermore, since the polytechnic system has been moved to MOHE, it is expected that a considerable
    amount of time will be required to transition the system to function effectively under that new
    authority. It is estimated that it may require one or two years for the system to ramp-up to full
    capacity and to benefit from the gains from new facilities, better equipment, new curricula and
    instructional materials, improved staff training, and better management systems supported by the
    project.


    MOE and TECHED have both initiated effective monitoring and evaluation systems that should
    provide accurate data to document institutional development impact over time. MOE has also begun
    to implement an impact study for this project. It is expected that the results of this study will be
    released on a periodic basis as various phases of the study are completed.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was somewhat negatively affected by the aftermath of the Asian economic crisis in 1997-1998.
This unstable situation made it difficult to estimate future costs and foreign exchange requirements. As a
result there were some initial slowdowns in project activities, including procurement of goods and services,
and overseas training commitments. This situation also led to some delays in construction, however, the
monitoring and evaluation systems of the MOE effectively identified the problems at an early stage, and
MOE was able to address the concerns during the first half of the project implementation period. None of
these factors significantly affected the final outcomes of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
With the exception of the decisions made to address the issues noted above (5.1), there were no factors
subject to government control that had any adverse impact on the implementation of the project, or its
outcomes.



                                                     - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU was generally responsible for planning, monitoring & evaluation, and processing of tenders,
contracts, etc. Early in the project, due to some inadequacies in staff, there were some difficulties with
schedule slippage in these areas, however, as the project progressed, these concerns were systematically
reviewed. Staff and procedural changes were made to resolve the problems. It is noteworthy to mention
that the PCC and the PIU were able to effectively address all these issues in a timely manner, even when
many were located in remote sites. This demonstrates the quality of oversight and control that the PCC and
the PIU maintained during the project.


5.4 Costs and financing:
As mentioned above (5.1) the Asian economic crisis in 1997-1998 created an unstable situation which, in
the early stages of the project, made it difficult to estimate future costs and foreign exchange requirements.
The initial estimates of project cost were reasonably accurate. The Government disbursed
US$216,709,941.12, or about 88.82% of the original loan amount of US$244.0 million. All of the
components were adequately financed for full project implementation. During the project period, only
minor adjustments to the budget were required.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The rating for sustainability is highly likely. At the policy level, the Government remains strongly
committed to the education sector. In particular, it places a national priority on primary, secondary and
polytechnic education, and sees them as important intellectual and social development assets. Furthermore,
in the case of secondary and polytechnic education, there is common view that both serve as primary
generators of trained manpower necessary to support national development in a global market economy. At
the ministry level, there is a strong commitment to a systematic long-term development program. MOE has
for the past several decades demonstrated its ability to repeatedly meet the goals of those plans (as
documented in the national five- year plans). As mentioned earlier, the project's outcomes are strongly
linked to these long-term development goals.

The Bank has a substantial history of successful primary, secondary and polytechnic education projects in
Malaysia. In all these projects, the Government has consistently demonstrated a strong commitment to
sustainability. There is no reason to suggest that the Government would change its commitments to
support the outcomes of this project. Currently, all project institutions and remaining project activities are
fully funded from local or national budgets.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MOE/MOHE uses a formal process to manage the transition of project activities to regular operations.
Each project activity must first be fully completed under the project's budget and authority of the PCC and
the PIU. After completion, each project activity must be reviewed and inspected by the PCC/PIU to ensure
that all project objectives have been met for that activity, including required civil works and the
procurement of goods and services.

Concurrently, PCC/MOE and State/institutional authorities must also review and inspect each activity, and
must agree that all project objectives for that activity have been reached and that the quality of the work is
satisfactory. Unfinished work and quality concerns noted during this process must be corrected by the PIU,
with the oversight of the PCC, before final acceptance and transition to regular operations is allowed.
Once the acceptance agreement is reached between all parties, the new institutions, upgraded institutions,



                                                       - 13 -

new staff, etc. will be shifted to regular budgets as required by MOE/MOHE operational policies. This
transition arrangement is well facilitated because individuals responsible for regular operations have been
selected as PCC members. As these activities become fully implemented within the project these PCC
members take over more and more responsibility for their transition into regular operations. This approach
has proven to be effective and without issue. All project activities, suitable for transitioning, are now fully
transitioned into regular operations.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Identification Mission was able to produce a thorough and comprehensive investment proposal that did
not change much during the subsequent stages of project preparation and implementation.          The
preparation mission paid special attention to the holistic integration of equipment, facilities, pedagogy,
curricula and staff development into the project design, and the need for the project to be market
responsive. The project design was consistent with the Government's overall development strategy as well
as the education sector's long-range institutional development plans. Preparation and appraisal teams were
well staffed and the appraisal was comprehensive and well documented. The appraisal team did
underestimate the time that it would take to fully implement the procurement programs under the project.
This issue was addressed early in the project and the project implementation plan was adjusted (on a
formative basis). The performance indicators were well prepared and continuously updated, making the
tracking of the project activities straightforward.


7.2 Supervision:
As mentioned above (7.1), during the early stages of the project, there were some concerns about the
progress of construction and the procurement of goods and services. These issues were quickly addressed
by the supervision teams and were well documented. In all cases, specific actions were agreed upon, with
the Government, to bring the project back inline with the implementation plan. The supervision team was
able to maintain an intensive and pro-active relationship with the PIU throughout the duration of the
project. Relations with the Borrower were good during the early stages of the project and grew to excellent
in the later stages of implementation. This relationship under the last task team and the Borrower grew
over time to become closely collaborative. It should be noted that the supervision teams gave significant
advice and showed considerable flexibility in solving implementation problems. An example of this may be
seen when the Bank and Borrower worked as a team to effectively resolve a serious construction flaw
found, during a mission review, in the Canteen Block located at the Kota Kinabalu Polytechnic (September
2004). Supervision missions, in six month intervals, were timely and adequately staffed. The findings and
recommendations of these missions are well documented in aide memoires, back-to-office reports, and
PSRs.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower established a strong counterpart team to work with the Bank's task team as the project is
prepared. This counterpart team participated actively in the preparation of the project and was particularly
effective in the Bank/Borrower's consideration of options and the collection, organization and analysis of
data required to develop the project design. As preparation activities were initiated, the counterpart team



                                                      - 14 -

made many significant contributions to the quality and scope of the project design.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government was, and remains, strongly committed to the improvement of the education sector. The
objectives of the project had a high priority in the sector and were thus, strongly supported by EPU,
Treasury/MOF and MOE. Each of these agencies worked cooperatively and effectively to support the full
implementation of the project. It is noteworthy that each agency assigned experienced officers to support
the planning and implementation of the project. Counterpart funds have been adequate for the project. The
Borrower is in full compliance with all loan covenants, and all audit reports have been submitted without
negative comments.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
Initially the PIU experienced some disruption when key staff left the unit. The PCC moved quickly to fill
the positions with even more experienced staff. This move strengthened the PIU and provided for improved
implementation of the project. The Borrower's PCC also conducted monthly meetings to review the status
of the project. This strong, consistent oversight provided ministry-wide visibility to the project as well as a
top down management review of all aspects of project implementation. The PIU was well staffed with
experienced, well trained, and dedicated staff members who, for the most part, remained in place
throughout the duration of the project implementation period. Even with some early delays in civil works
and procurement, the PIU was consistently effective in the management and coordination of the project.
During the early phases of project implementation, the PIU was able to identify and reach agreement with
the Bank on the ways to address each of the delay-related issues. Working in close collaboration with the
Bank, the Borrower then moved effectively to make substantial changes required bring the project back on
schedule. This effort should not be underestimated as the project is large and complex, with many project
sites and contractors located in remote areas. The procurement requirements for the project were large in
volume, varied, and in many cases, highly technical. Many contractors had their own problems with the
financial crisis, and in some cases, they suffered from shortages of required cash-flow and skilled labor to
support their construction commitments. The PCC/PIU systematically reviewed each situation, and then
proceeded to challenge or renegotiate with the contractors to bring them back in line with the
implementation plan. Where there was a need to adjust the implementation plan to better reflect reality, the
changes were well managed by the PIU, and agreed to by the Bank. As a result, the project was able to
meet all of all of its development objectives while at the same time generating some cost savings. The
PCC/PIU also established computerized project scheduling and indicator tracking systems, M&E systems,
and other management procedures that served to enhance effectiveness of project implementation. In its
support of Bank supervision missions, the PCC/PIU often prepared operational studies, project
performance audits, financial analyses, and architectural plans necessary to support the supervision
process. The PCC/PIU also consistently provided advanced planning to improve Bank efficiency during its
visits to remote project sites. It can be safely said that the quality of the PCC and the PIU was a major
factor in the success of the project.

In preparation for the ICR, the PCC coordinated the preparation of the ICR and insured that all
implementing units within the ministry submit their contribution on a timely basis. These detailed inputs
were then combined under the PCC Secretariat and submitted to the Bank as part of the Borrower's input
to the ICR preparation process. The ICR preparation team found these subcomponent reports to be
comprehensive, accurate and well written (see Annex 7).


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance was rated as highly satisfactory.



                                                      - 15 -

8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project are:

Project Design and Management

1. The establishment of a strongly staffed, and well managed PIU and PCC is considered by the Borrower
and the Bank to be the major contributing factor to the implementation success of this project;
2. Adequate project duration should be set to ensure successful implementation of the project. The project
was extended twice to provide more time for project implementation. The Borrower is of the opinion that
the project should have been set for a duration of 5 to 7 years instead of the original 3 years;
3. The personnel from supporting agencies (other ministries) should become more familiar with the various
Bank guidelines and documentation requirements. The Borrower is of the opinion that this increased
understanding would have prevented some conflicts between Bank guidelines and local procurement             and
disbursement procedures;
4. With widely distributed project sites, local administrators, coordinators and teachers should be more
fully briefed regarding the advantages of participating in the project as well as their responsibilities;
5. Systematic monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is critical to the success of a project with widely disbursed
project activities and sites;
6. When technical consultants (i.e., architects, structural engineers, electrical engineers, M&E specialists,
and quantity surveyors) are selected and contracted as individuals by the Borrower, there is a strong
possibility that they may not form a cohesive working unit so necessary in large projects. This lack of
cohesion may cause delays in construction, lack of architectural control over the project, and a lack of
articulation between various plans and specifications;
7. When the Borrower chooses inexperienced consultants, they are often unable to match the skills and
experience of professional staff appointed by the contractor. Such a situation may allow the contractor to
exert too much control over the key decision-making required for effective implementation of large civil
works. Such inexperience may also result in more revisions to plans and cost over-runs;

Staff Development
8. The project found that teachers were more responsive to changes and innovations when they participated
in a continuous professional development model of in-service training. Single, `one-shot' staff development
approaches were much less effective;
9. Overseas, long-term training is expensive. It should only be done when local training capacity is not
available;
10. In large scale staff development programs, there is an increased danger that a significant number of
inappropriate staff will be selected for training for training. This situation often results in a lowering of
program quality and development impact. In such programs, care should be taken to ensure that specific
selection criteria are well established, and that the subsequent selection process closely follows the
established criteria;
11. There is usually a high demand in the private sector for key technical staff required by the project (i.e.,
ICT technicians and media specialists, MIS development programmers, ICT engineers, quantity surveyors,
civil engineers, and architects). For this reason, future projects may experience high staff turnover in these
key positions. The project found that Government assignment of currently employed, MOE staff to the
project for the duration helped to address this issue. Also, the selection and assignment of multiple
understudies to each technical staff provided some redundancy when key staff resigned;




                                                       - 16 -

Management Information Systems (MIS) Development
12. When undertaking the development of management information systems (MIS), ministries and
institutions should recognize that national policy changes may affect the implementation of the MIS. When
such changes take place, information needs of key decision makers may change. This in turn, may require
modifications to the MIS. Depending on when these changes take place, they can significantly affect the
timely implementation of the MIS;
13. MIS systems work better when there is a strong willingness to share data and information between
institutions and various units within the ministry;
14. MIS systems development is formative. It should be expected that continual development and changes
will be required in the MIS. Staffing and budgets should reflect this reality;
15. MIS systems must have continuous routine maintenance. As in the previous lesson learned, staffing
and budgets should be provided on an annual basis;
16. MIS systems are most effective when they have proactive support from senior managers;

Curriculum/ Pedagogical Development
17. Web-based networks, if properly designed, can be used effectively to enable teachers in diverse
locations to share pedagogical/ curriculum development ideas and experiences;
18. When project educators have the opportunity to share their experiences, new ideas and approaches with
counterparts from other countries they often find opportunities to improve their own development as well as
their programs; and
19. Overseas training of administrators and staff provide opportunities for benchmarking existing programs
against programs of other developed nations;

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.       INTRODUCTION

1.1.     The impact of the regional economic and financial crisis of 1997 had resulted in a significant
reduction of Malaysia's GDP. Government (GoM) expenditure had to be cut across the board constraining
the implementation of programs proposed under the Seventh Malaysia Plan (7MP). Realizing the
seriousness the crises impeded the country's goal to develop into an industrialized country by 2020, the
GoM sought financial support to reinstate projects that had been put on hold. Discussions and negotiations
between the GoM and the World Bank to facilitate funding to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the
nation's development under the 7MP were initiated. Projects under the education sector were among those
to be continued under the proposed funding.

1.2.     In July 1998, the GoM officially requested the World Bank assistance for the education sector. The
Bank assistance was to assist the Ministry of Education Malaysia (MoE) to implement education programs
initiated under the 7MP which was affected by the 1997 economic crisis of East Asia. On March 30, 1999,
the GoM and the Bank signed a loan agreement for the education sector. The Education Sector Support
Project (ESSP) took effect from 30th June 1999 and was to be completed by 31 December 2002. However,
due to slow momentum at the initial stage of implementation and personnel problems encountered mid-way
through the Project, the ESSP was closed on 31st December 2004, after a two year extension to the initial
closing date. Amidst the challenges, the funding was successful in enabling the MoE to maintain past
education sector achievements and assisted MoE in realizing the objectives of the 7MP which were
continued into the 8MP.




                                                    - 17 -

1.3.     Cooperation between the World Bank and the MoE, in particular, is not new. The cooperation
between the two parties dated back as far as 1969 with the First Education Loan amounting to USD8.8
million. The ESSP, the 13th loan package amounting close to USD224 million is the largest thus far
allocated to this sector.

1.4      The following is the summary of the objective, scope and achievement of the ESSP. The detailed
description of the Project and its achievements by components are contained in the attachments provided.

2.       ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVE

2.1.     Specifically the Project had been successful in meeting its objective of assisting the MoE to revive
the slow development in (a) expanding access and equity to education (b) promoting quality and excellence
and (c) improving efficiency of the sectoral management, caused by the East-Asia economic crisis.

2.2      To achieve these three objectives, the Project focused on: i) undertaking civil works projects for
primary and secondary schools, and polytechnics in different parts of the country, and provision of
furniture and equipment to the project polytechnics, (ii) improving curriculum to prepare students to meet
challenges of the economy, (iii) increasing the number of experienced and qualified teachers at primary and
secondary school levels through in-service training programs and advancing delivery and research skills of
instructors and lectures of polytechnics and universities through local and overseas training programs, and
(iv) implementing a staff development program to strengthen the managerial efficiencies of various
departments within the MoE and providing technical assistance to further improve the educational
management information system.

2.3.     Most of the activities undertaken by the project subcomponents had meet the target and in some
cases had exceeded the initial plan. Modifications to some training programs were made to meet minor
shortfalls to initial target. The civil works projects which encountered soil-related problems were taken out
of the project and were constructed using local funding. The shortfalls to both the components were very
minimal compared to the accomplishment of the Project.

3.       PROJECT SCOPE AND ACHIEVEMENT

3.1.     The Education Sector Support Project consists of 3 main components, namely; i) Basic Education,
ii) Polytechnics Education, and iii) Institutional Strengthening.

3.2.     Component 1. Basic Education. Basic education component consists of two subcomponents
namely; i) construction of primary and secondary schools, teacher quarters and student boarding in primary
and secondary schools, ii) provision for a special first degree and short-term in-service training program to
upgrade teacher qualifications and enhance their teaching skills, the development of curricula and
instructional materials, and the provision to strengthened the pilot School-to-Work program.

3.3.     Subcomponent 1.1. Construction of primary and secondary schools, teacher quarters and student
boarding in primary and secondary schools

3.4.     The Project was successful in constructing 33 (97%) of the 34 target primary schools. One target
school experiencing severe soil-related problem was taken out of the Project and was completed under local
funding. All the 26 (100%) secondary schools planned under the Project were successfully completed. The
project was also successful in building 447 out of 542 (75 %) units of teacher quarters in 44 locations and
the expansion of 2,700/2,750 (98%) units of boarding places for students in 16 locations. The provision of


                                                       - 18 -

furniture and equipment to these schools was withdrawn from the Project and was procured through local
funds. By loan closing date all civil works project under the ESSP were utilized.

3.5.    Subcomponent 1.2.        Upgrading teacher qualifications and enhancing their teaching skills, the
development of instructional materials, and the provision to strengthen the pilot School-to-Work (STW)
program

3.6.     The Project was successful in upgrading teacher qualifications and enhancing their teaching skills
and developing instructional materials. The Project was also successful in strengthening the pilot STW
program. The Project funded two cohorts of students at the upper secondary level for a two-year program
in 165 schools and benefited 4,339 students. The overwhelmed acceptance of students and parents over the
STW program and the positive findings derived from the STW tracer study initiated the MoE to introduce
the Basic Industrial Skills Program (VSAS), a more structured program based on the STW concept in all
upper secondary schools. Detailed achievement to the Project under Subcomponent 1.2 is as presented in
the table below.




                            Training/Courses                                 Target        Completed
                                                                             Initial      Actual% of
                                                                                             Target
 1.      Special Undergraduate Degree                                                276     27399 %
 2.      Short-Courses for Master Trainer in Computer in                           1,800 1,854103 %
 Education
 3.      Short-Courses for Master Trainer in English Lang.                          1,000 1,050105 %
 4.      14-Week IT Smart-School                                                    1,053 1315125%
 5.      14-Week Computer in Education                                              1,290 1,291100 %
 6.      ICT Course (short courses)                                                 2,400 4,800200 %
 7.      Professional Development Course (short courses)                              220    19187 %
 8.      STW/VSAS Teacher Training                                                    382   382100 %
 9.      Mathematics and Science Teachers - RECSAM                                 1,170 1,170100%

3.7.     Component 2. Polytechnics Education. This component is focused on 3 main concerns; i)
construction and equipping a new polytechnic in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, and upgrading, expanding and
equipping facilities in six existing polytechnics, ii) improving the quality of teaching and polytechnic
curriculum and iii) improving the polytechnic institutional management.

3.8.     Subcomponent 2.1. Construction of a new polytechnic in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah, and upgrading
facilities in six existing polytechnics and provision of equipment to these targeted polytechnics

3.9.     This subcomponent was able to address issues of expanding access and equity to post secondary
education through the network of polytechnics. Under this Project, the capacity of six existing polytechnics
namely, i) the Politeknik Ungku Omar (PUO), Perak, ii) Politeknik Sultan Haji Ahmad Shah (POLISAS),
Pahang, iii) Politeknik Sultan Abdul Halim Muadzam Shah (POLIMAS), Kedah, iv) Politeknik Kuching
(PKS), Sarawak, v) Politeknik Kota Bahru (PKB), Kelantan, and vi) Politeknik Port Dickson (PPD),
Negeri Sembilan was upgraded from 2,000/3,000 to 3,600 students and their physical and basic facilities
and equipment upgraded. The establishment of the new polytechnic in Kota Kinabalu provided about



                                                       - 19 -

3,600 additional enrollments into polytechnics. Similarly, the upgrading of the six existing polytechnics
further provided about 12,000 to 15,000 additional enrollments. All works were completed and the facilities
utilized.

3.10.    Subcomponent 2.2. Improving the quality of teaching and polytechnic curriculum

3.11.     This subcomponent was successful in improving the quality of polytechnic education through its
curriculum development initiatives and the introduction of new courses and delivery methods. Staff
teaching skills were enhanced and upgraded through short-term and long-term training programs. The
Project funded the training of non-degree instructors, under-graduates, post-graduates, and polytechnic
staffs and administrators in KUITTHO and various local institutions. The training program included
courses in Engineering, Commerce, Tourism and Hospitality, Technical and Vocational Education, as well
as Career Guidance and Counseling. The courses offered were at various levels, namely, Bachelor Degree,
Masters, Non-degree and Short-term Courses. The number of students offered the polytechnics scholarship
in Masters Degree programs was fully achieved while there were some shortfalls in the Bachelor Degree
programs. The shortfalls were offset by additional scholarship in Masters in Technical & Vocational
Education Degree.

3.12.    By the end of Project closing, this subcomponent had benefited 1,386 (123%) polytechnic staff,
exceeding its 1,130 target. Out of a total of 1,386 trained, 406 secured Master's of Technical Education
Degree, 39 Master's of Science Degree, 20 Master's of Business Degree, 394 non-degree instructors had
their qualification upgraded to B.A and B. Sc., an additional 73 non-degree instructors were upgraded to
Diploma level, and 454 staff completed short-term training programs in career guidance and counseling,
administration, and skills in new technology.

3.13.    This subcomponent also focused on reviewing 63 courses offered in the polytechnic system. By the
end of Project closing this subcomponent had produced 299 new curriculum modules, upgraded 762
subjects and introduced the semester system in polytechnic education. Workshops on camera and
instructional design were also conducted and a series of training programs in developing multimedia
materials development implemented.

3.14.    Subcomponent 2.3. Improving the polytechnic institutional management

3.15.    Funding under this subcomponent was provided to conduct several studies related to polytechnics
education, namely, (a) Tracer Study, b) Polytechnics MIS, and c) Long Term Development Plans Part 1
through Part 5. The fund also provided for the improvement of the polytechnics management. By the end of
Project closing all studies proposed under this subcomponent were completed. The designing and
development of the Polytechnic Management Information System (PMIS)/Technical Education Executive
Information System (TEDEIS) software was also completed and were tested and installed in all the project
polytechnics. Polytechnics staff were also trained to utilize the PMIS.

3.16.    The polytechnics quality management project (MS ISO 9002) undertaken through this
subcomponent begun in 1997 and was completed in February 2000. The staff from all the polytechnics
underwent training in various quality management courses such as documentation and internal audit in
1997 and 1998. Subsequently the documentation process commenced in 1998 and was completed in 2000.
BY 2002, the Polytechnic Management Division and 11 polytechnics were awarded the MS ISO 9002
certificate for having successfully implemented the ISO quality system. The quality management project
was able to enhance students' confidence in polytechnic education system, enable better monitoring of
efficiency and effectiveness of the polytechnic management system, and establishing a standardized process


                                                     - 20 -

of work flow which had improved services to its customers.

3.17.     Component 3. Institutional Strengthening. Projects under this component consist of 4 main
activities namely; i) equipping computers and contracting technical assistance for improving the EMIS and
EIS, ii) providing short and long-term training program for MOE staff in selected areas, iii) providing
long-term training program for lectures in public universities, and iv) conducting a Policy Studies Study on
New Funding Mechanism For Public Institutions of Higher Education.

3.18. Subcomponent 3.I. Equipping computers and contracting technical assistance for improving the
EMIS and EIS

3.19. The project had assisted in (a) sustaining and improving the already established EMIS, (b) ensuring
that the EMIS is implemented nationally, with particular emphasis on reaching remote schools in Sabah
and Sarawak, which are currently outside the computerised data management system of MOE, (c)
facilitating the EMIS transition to a Y2K compliant system by phasing out obsolete equipment and
operating systems, and (d) building institutional capacity through integration of multiple data bases and
development of an EIS for planning and policy formulation. To achieve these objectives the Project had
provided computers, equipment, software and furniture to several targeted departments and divisions at the
MoE, SED, DED/DEO and selected schools especially in Sabah and Sarawak for EMIS. The Project also
provided technical assistance in developing EIS and implementing an EIS training program. The EMIS
and EIS are currently utilized and monitored by the EPRD.

3.20.     The procurement of computers, laser printer, line printer, colour laser printer, scanner, shredder
and LCD projector, computer furniture and AVR for all schools in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and
Sarawak, District Education Offices/Divisions, State Education Offices and the Ministry of Education is
completed and all the equipment installed and utilized by all the target groups. The computers and
additional Zip and CDRW Drives procured had also been distributed to the target locations. This
subcomponent had also conducted the Training of Trainers (TOT) program for 774 staff (114% of target),
Trap and Verification Workshops for 31,605 staff (175 % of target), and Policy Seminars on EMIS for
828 staff (127 % of target).

3.21.     Subcomponent 3.2. Providing short and long-term training program for MoE staff in selected
areas

3.22.     The Project funded (a) post-graduate and (b) short-term programs in selected areas such as Policy
Studies, Economic of Education, Testing and Measurement, Curriculum Studies in Science & Technology,
Strategic Planning, Cost Analysis, Educational Management Information System, Research and Data
Analysis and Executive Management.

3.23.     Post-graduate. The Project funded 23 officers from MoE to pursue Oversea Fellowship PhD
Program in the United Kingdom (12) and the United States of America (11). The project had also benefited
136 officers of MoE who had graduated with a Masters Degree through the Local Fellowship Program.

3.24.     Short-Term Courses. The short-term courses consisted of an oversea fellowship program, and
local training program. The oversea fellowship short-term training program had benefited 384 (93 % of
target) lectures from teacher training college, 575 (98 % of target) classroom teachers, and 77 (132 % of
Target) senior MoE officials. These short-term two-week courses were conducted in four oversea
institutions namely; the Asian Institute of Technology (AIT) Thailand, INNOTECH Manila, the Northern
Territory University Australia and the ISTAC Kuala Lumpur. The short-term courses provided training in


                                                     - 21 -

specialized areas such as Educational Management Information System, Executive Management and
Research and Data Analysis. Two types of activities were conducted under the local training programs
namely; the multiplier effect workshops and computer related courses. The multiplier effect workshops
focusing on specialized areas involved the development of training modules and training of lecturers from
teacher training colleges, secondary school senior assistants, officers in the State Education Department
and the District Education. The extension of these programs is necessary given the possibility of
educational benefits that would occur by the continued implementation of such programs.

3.25. Subcomponent 3.3. Long-term overseas training program in specialized areas for public university
lecturers and Higher education policy study on new funding mechanism for public institutions of higher
education

3.26.    Initially this subcomponent was planned to provide long-term overseas training program in
specialized areas for public university lecturers. This program was conceptualized to address the need to,
(a) upgrade the quality of teaching, training and research in public universities; (b) strengthen the capacity
and capability of public university academic staffs to develop new programs; and (c) provide exposure to
the state of the art in R&D and improve the instructional delivery system at the eleven public universities.
The Project was to fund overseas post-graduate studies in relevant disciplines. It was to support the
on-going academic staff development program aimed to further strengthening research foundation in higher
education. One hundred lectures from eleven universities were to benefit from the overseas post-graduate
programs. However this did not take-off because public universities were able to provide training through
existing local funding. The MoE's proposal to revise the original proposal was approved by the Economic
Planning Unit and Treasury. Under the revised plan 54 medical staff out of a proposed 70 targets benefited
from the short-term overseas courses in priority areas in the field of medicine.

3.27.    This subcomponent also looked into the need to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of
resource allocation to institutions of higher education, linking funding to performance and quality criteria in
ensuring public universities are more transparent and accountable to the public. The Project assisted in the
conduct of a policy study to review the current mechanism of resource allocation (operating, development,
staff development and R&D) to government funded public universities, including its strengths and
weaknesses. The study encountered some setbacks at the initial stage due to expansion in the scope and
term of reference of the study and high costs in contracting TA. However, this was resolved and by the loan
closing date the study was completed. The study was conducted using local funding.

3.28.    Subcomponent 3.4. Contracting experienced staff and providing facilities for DPD to manage the
various components within the project and establishment of the Project Coordination Committee

3.29.    This subcomponent was to further strengthen the implementation capacity at the central level
(DPSD) in line with the on-going and proposed increase in its work load. The project supported the
appointment of a project manager who managed the day to day oversight of all the components within the
project. The Project also assisted in contracting 4 specialist staff namely, a qualified accountant, an
architect, a quantity surveyor and a procurement staff. The recruitment of these staff into the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) contributed to the success of the tremendously huge civil works projects. The
Project Coordination Committee and its Secretariat established to monitor the overall development of the
ESSP was effective in providing general oversight to project implementation and was instrumental to the
overall success of the ESSP.




                                                     - 22 -

4.      MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME

4.1.    Generally most of the activities planed under the Project were successfully implemented and some
components had even exceeded their target. However, there were some shortfalls and untimely completion
of the projects. Following are among the main factors affecting the implementation.

4.2.    Civil Works

a.      Insufficient technical site investigation hampered implementation process in which some of the sites
        were later classified as problematic.
b.      Requirements by some local authorities were not fully understood by implementers causing delays
        during site possession.
c.      The consultants and implementers were unfamiliar with World Bank Guidelines causing some
        delays during compilation of bidding documents.
d.      Construction delays due to poor cash flow management by the contractors.
e.      Some sites were remotely located and were constantly affected by logistic difficulties, bad weather
        and poor accessibility.
f.      Price fluctuations of some construction materials such as steel products.
g.      Escalation of construction costs due to aspects not taken into considerations at design stage or new
        end-users requirement or additional requirements by other compulsory authorities.
h.      The initial loan period of 3 years was too short for a scope of work al large as the new Polytechnic
        in Kota Kinabalu Sabah.
i.      Manpower shortage and recruitment of foreign illegal construction workers.

4.3.    Goods

a.      Unclear of the conflicting procedures between GoM's procurement procedures and World Bank's
        guidelines. The Bank mission team was however very helpful in ensuring compliance to these
        guidelines especially at the pre-contract award stage.
b.      Delays in completion of civil works projects had caused goods delivery schedule to be readjusted
        affecting contractual agreement regarding delivery of goods. In most cases construction of
        temporary storages to house the goods were also undertaken and these had incurred additional cost
        to the projects. The employment of security guards, extra perimeter fencing, lighting and security
        grills as well as insurances taken on goods housed in these workshops had also incurred additional
        cost.
c.      A few issues were raised during a procurement auditing exercise conducted on a number of goods
        and works procurement packages during the course of works in progress. On the whole, GoM had
        managed all procurement in accordance to the Bank's procedures.

4.4.    Training

a.      Identification of participants at times did not meet the criteria for selection. There were also
        instances where ample time was not provided for the respective departments to identify the right
        candidates.
b.      Relevant departments must be well informed of the criteria for the selection of course participants.
        Unclear criteria of selection often resulted in wrong candidates being identified for courses.
c.      Places identified to run ICT training programs must be equipped with Computer Laboratories and
        other necessary equipment and facilities before training sessions begin.


                                                     - 23 -

d.       Places with inadequate computer facilities should be upgraded with the necessary hardware and
         software facilities needed to run the programs. If this is not possible other alternatives should be
         considered. The lack of such facilities can hamper the training sessions and affect the running of
         the courses.
e.       Publicity on courses to be conducted must be improved so that teachers nationwide are aware of
         the offer.

5.       SUSTAINABILITY

5.1.     Under the 7MP the GoM had aimed to provide access to quality basic education especially in
improving enrollment ratios; improving infrastructure facilities for teachers, and students in underserved,
remote or sparsely populated regions. The GoM had also aimed to meet the demands for skilled workers
under the 7MP and with the assistance from the Bank, student enrolment is expected to be met in line with
national industrialization plan. The increase in current capacity from 2000-3000 students to 5000 per
existing polytechnic and the construction as well as equipping one new polytechnic located in Kota
Kinabalu, Sabah with a design capacity of 3,600 students will ensure increased student enrolment capacity
on science, engineering and technical courses.

5.2.     The World Bank's financing had supported the implementation of these planned projects especially
in the times of economic crises. Since these projects were listed under 7MP, the funds for development and
operation of these projects were already secured to promote quality and excellence in education, equitable
access to quality education and efficiency in teaching and learning process and meeting the demands for
skilled workers.

5.3      The numerous benefits derived from the Project are continued into the 8MP and funds would be
made available to enhance and upgrade them in future five-year national development plans. The
sustainability of these projects is essential to enable the MoE to continue to contribute to the development
of the required pool of skilled and knowledgeable human resources to spear the nation towards the
fulfillment of the national aspirations.

6.       BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE

6.1.     The Ministry of Education wishes to express appreciation to members of both the World Bank and
the MoE for having successfully implemented the ESSP. The success is attributed to the close cooperation
forged between the Bank team and MoE personnel entrusted with the ESSP as well as the manifestation of
the series of thorough and effective supervision on the Bank part, the commitment of MoE personnel
towards the project and close monitoring and leadership of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC).

BANK PERFORMANCE

6.2.     The Bank's supervision mission team under the leadership of the task manager had provided
constant encouragement and motivation to the GoM officials involved in the ESSP. The supervision
mission had also been very responsive and supportive in resolving implementation issues that required
Bank approval or NOL. Their continuous support and ready assistance as well as their helpful comments
and feedback had also assisted the implementers to be consistent in their project implementation, especially
with respect to monitoring and evaluation, which are important aspects of the project cycle.

6.3.     The team had also helped improved implementers understanding of the Bank's guidelines and
procedures in operating the projects. This is especially true during the initial stage of the project, when



                                                      - 24 -

newly recruited Government officials entrusted with the projects were unfamiliar with the Bank's
procurement procedures.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

6.4.     All those involved in the Project had continually strived to implement the project in the best
possible way. Nevertheless, there were some setbacks that had affected the performance of the project.
However, the outcome of the project is overwhelming, so much so that the implementation snags faced
earlier seem negligible. All the implementers had performed well despite the slow take-off and lack of
understanding and familiarity of Bank procedures and guidelines at beginning of project implementation.
Their commitment and the assistance from the Bank team had enable them to abide to the World Bank's
procedures and guidelines and had succeeded in completing the projects within the loan extension period.
Implementers' participation in the training program on Bank procedures half-way through the Project had
to some extend improved the management of their respective projects.

6.5      The appointment of a project manager, a qualified accountant, an architect, a quantity surveyor
and a procurement staff to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) contributed to the success of the
tremendously huge civil works projects. The coordination sub-committees set-up under the training
component to monitor the progress of the programs at the various levels were crucial to the efficient
management of the programs. The Project Coordination Committee and its Secretariat established to
monitor the overall development of the ESSP was effective in providing general oversight to project
implementation and was instrumental to the overall success of the ESSP.

7.       LESSONS LEARNED

The successful implementation of the Project was attributed to its effective management and coordination.
Lessons learned from undertaking the Project need consideration in the future endeavors of the MoE. In
general, the Project objectives were achieved and the following are the key lessons learned:

7.1.     The Project Coordination Committee and its Secretariat established to monitor the overall
         development of the ESSP was effective in providing general oversight to project implementation.
         The effectiveness and success of the projects also depended on the mechanism and organisational
         structure within the implementing agencies.

7.2.     Adequate period of time should be provided to ensure successful implementation of the projects. A
         three year implementation loan period was found to be inadequate for a project of this size. A time
         period of 5 to 7 years would more be suitable.

7.3.     All personnel of the MoE and other agencies entrusted with the Bank loan project should be
         exposed and familiar with the various Bank guidelines and documentations through seminars and
         training courses before implementation take effect. The understanding of the guidelines is of great
         importance to avoid conflicting procedures which are commonly adopted under locally funded
         projects.

7.4.     The Special Account method of disbursing allocations for projects funded under the Bank loan
         must be clearly understood by all parties involved in the project. This is especially important to the
         central agencies (the Treasury and the Economic Planning Unit) in order to optimize its benefit and
         in ensuring adequate funds are made available for payments to the contractors within the stipulated
         time.



                                                    - 25 -

7.5.    To ensure that end users benefit fully from civil works projects and procurement of equipments,
        furniture, books and computers, after-sales services must be warranted from the contractors and
        suppliers.

7.6     Training of participants in overseas programs that are unavailable in Malaysia though expensive
        must be continued. The exposure to the overseas expertise had brought about numerous benefits,
        especially through the multiplier-effect program and had also enabled MoE to benchmark its
        position against other developed nations.

7.7.    The importance of ensuring appropriate course participants are selected to attend training
        programs must be emphasized. Coordination meetings with all departments involved in identifying
        course participants must be held to ensure that these officers are well informed of the criteria for
        the selection of course participants. Training courses attended by appropriate course participants
        are usually more effective and efficiently run.

7.8.    Training centers identified to conduct ICT training programs must be adequately equip before the
        training sessions begin. Centers with inadequate computer facilities should be upgraded with the
        necessary hardware and software facilities required for the program. The lack of necessary
        facilities can hamper the training sessions and give rise to problems which will affect the
        effectiveness of the courses.

7.9.    Widespread publicity on availability of training program offered is important in ensuring a larger
        pool of applicant to select from. Frequent and larger advertising space in major newspapers and
        on-line application system could also be employed to publicize the offer.

7.10.   It is essential that suitable mechanism for monitoring and evaluation of project implementation is
        built into the process structure in each component of the Project. This would ensure a continuous
        and systematic follow-up to current progress and future schedule in meeting the target.

ESSP PCC Secretariat
Ministry Of Education Malaysia
2005

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1: Improving Access and
Quality of basic education

Outcome Indicator ­ Enrollment rate                                                  Nationally, improved access by
from base year (1998) in schools, in                                                 about 9% for primary students
project states and institutions, will be
improved by end of project (EOP) in                                                  Nationally, improved access by
December 2003.                                                                       16% for secondary students

Baseline enrollment (1998)                               3,120,886                              3,120,886
National primary schools = 2,861,941                        496,401                                 496,401
Selangor primary = 397,141                                  180,676                                 180,676
Pahang primary = 182,731                                    236,073                                 236,073
Kelantan primary = 230,044                                  153,345                                 153,345
Terengganu primary = 151,594                              2,156,215                               2,156,215
National secondary schools = 1,857,172                      301,967                                 301,967
Selangor secondary = 256,169                                132,906                                 132,906
Pahang secondary = 127,452                                  163,028                                 163,028
Kelantan secondary = 135,748                                165,597                                 165,597
Terengganu secondary = 95,175
Outcome Indicator ­ Increase in the number                                           Nationally, primary teachers
of primary teachers with diploma                                                     increased by about 11.4%
qualifications from teacher training colleges
by EOP
Baseline number of primary teachers (1998)
= 148,596                                                   165,597                                 165,597
Outcome Indicator ­ Increase number of                                               Nationally, secondary teachers
secondary teachers with university degrees                                           increased by about 78%
by EOP
Baseline number of secondary teachers
(1998) =59,916                                              106,691                                 106,691
Outcome Indicator ­ Improve teaching          Assessment completed 2004, finding     Same as last PSR
Practices on a sample assessment at the       Showed significant improvements
EOP
Component 2: Expanding access and
improving the quality and relevancy of
polytechnic education

Outcome Indicator ­ Increase number of
Polytechnic staff with professional
competencies

Baseline number of staff (1998) = 1324 staff
have degree and 461 have non-degree
credentials
Planned target was 1,130 total polytechnic    Actual number of staff trained was     Same as in last PSR
staff trained in project                      1,386, or about 123% of target

Master's of Technical Education Degree                     406 graduates
Master's of Science Degree                                  39 graduates
Master's of Business Degree                                 20 graduates
Bachelor of Arts and Science Degree                        394 graduates
Diploma programs                                            73 graduates
Short-term training programs                               454 completions
Outcome Indicator ­ Curriculum                Curriculum development in all          Same as in last PSR
Development in all 15 programs (baseline      15 programs completed. This
1998) completed by EOP                        included: 63 courses reviewed;
                                              762 existing subjects updated; and
                                              299 new instructional modules
                                              completed (200% of target)
Outcome Indicator ­ High employer             Three tracer studies were completed    Same as in last PSR
satisfaction in the quality of polytechnic    (2001, 2002, 2003) ­ results showed



                                                                - 27 -

graduates Target was one system wide tracer significantly improvements in                Policy Reform: Use of tracer studies
study completed by EOP                        employer satisfaction with                 And small scale industry studies
                                              polytechnic program quality and            has been institutionalized in
                                              graduates (300% of target);                polytechnic system
                                              Employer brochure completed;
                                              Six small scale industry studies were
                                              Completed
Outcome Indicator ­ MS ISO 9000 quality       MS ISO 9001 (version 2000), a              Same as in last PSR
system will be implemented in TECHED and higher level of certification than
the polytechnic institutions by EOP           original indicator, has been
                                              been implemented in TECHED and
                                              all polytechnic institutions
Component 3. Institutional strengthening

Outcome Indicator ­ Improve planning and      Databases have been established            Same as in last PSR
management of primary and secondary           at the national and local levels.
education at the EOP                          data collection is conducted monthly       Policy Reform: Data collection and
                                              at the state level and every three         use of databases are fully
                                              months at the national level. Data         institutionalized in primary and
                                              bases are used to support improved         secondary schools and at the
                                              planning and management                    national level
Outcome Indicator ­ Improve funding of        Consultant study on effectiveness          Same as in last PSR
higher education at the end of EOP            and efficiencies of higher education       MOE/MOHE indicated that the
                                              funding was completed in December          findings of the study will be primary
                                              2004                                       inputs to future planning for the
                                                                                         funding of higher education


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Component 1. Basic Education                  Completed were:                            Same as in last PSR
Output Indicator - All schools and associated 33 primary schools (100% of target);
facility construction completed on schedule   26 secondary schools (100% of
by EOP. Target was:                           target);
33 primary schools;                           447 (units) teacher quarters (75% of
26 secondary schools;                         target); and
600 units teacher quarters; and               2700 (units) student hostels (98% of
2,750 units student hostels                   target)


Output Indicator ­ Completion of studies to   Studies completed, STW successfully        STW/VSAS is institutionalized
evaluate the effectiveness of STW program     piloted, 3 tracer studies implemented, 319 as part of the secondary curriculum,
                                              teachers trained to support STW, VSAS      programs have begun in more than
                                              program introduced                         100 schools with further increases
                                                                                         planned


Component 2. Polytechnic Education            Baseline enrollments were increased by     Same as in last PSR
Output Indicator ­ Increase intake of         40,061 students by 2004
students in polytechnics by EOP as
compared to baseline enrollment in
polytechnics (1998)
Component 3. Institutional Strengthening

Output Indicator - Increase active use of     All states active in the use of EMIS       Implemented, focus is now on
EMIS by for planning and management by        for planning and management (100%)         increasing spread of usage in the
EOP                                                                                      sector
Output Indicator ­ Establishment of EIS by    EIS developed and piloted, three           Implemented, focus is now on
EOP                                           databases developed, use is                increasing spread of usage in the
                                              expanding as more databases are            sector.
                                              developed for use
Output Indicator ­ Recommendations made       Consultant inputs complete,                Results incorporated in MOE
on effectiveness and efficiency of resource   recommendations currently under            planning for future years
allocation and methodology developed by       consideration by GOM
EOP




                                                                  - 28 -

Output Indicator ­ Increase number of      33,542 staff have participated in      Same as in last PSR
officials trained in the use of EMIS/EIS   various modules of EMIS/EIS training
Output Indicator ­ Increase number of MOE Ph.D. ­ 12 graduates with additional    Same as in last PSR
staff upgraded and trained                 11 candidates in various stages of
Target: 15 Ph.D.; 72 Master's; and 1182    study (153% of target)                 Note: these figures do not include
short-term training participants           Masters ­ 136 graduates (189% of       training programs offered to
                                           (target);                              instructional staff and administrators
                                           Short-term training ­ 1115 staff       within various MOE institutions
                                           (94% of target)

1End of project




                                                             - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      Appraisal       Actual/Latest         Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate            Estimate             Appraisal
                          Component                                  US$ million        US$ million
Component 1 - Basic Education
A. Capacity Expansion                                                  121.50                153.20                 126
B. Staff Development                                                      6.30                 7.60                 121
Component 2 - Polytechnic Education
A Capacity Expansion                                                   163.00                156.20                  96
B. Staff and Curriculum Development                                       6.70                 6.30                  94
C. Polytechnic Planning and Management                                    2.50                 1.70                  68
Component 3 - Institutional Strengthening
A. EMIS                                                                   5.80                 6.30                 109
B. Graduate Programs (MOE staff)                                          2.50                 5.00                 197
C. Higher Education Development                                           6.80                 0.60                   9
D. Project Management                                                     0.50                 0.90                 180

Total Baseline Cost                                                    315.60                337.80
 Physical Contingencies                                                  21.00                 0.00                   0
 Price Contingencies                                                     22.90                 0.00                   0
                             Total Project Costs                       359.50                337.80
                                               Front-end fee              2.40                 2.40              100.00
                     Total Financing Required                          361.90                340.20
Although the project substantially met all its objectives and in some areas exceeded initial expectations, there was
some cost savings. The Government cancelled a total of US$27.29 million. The cost savings were due to a
combination of the following factors: a) lower than expected costs for some goods and services; b) the state of the
economy immediately following the Asian Financial Crisis; c) rigorous centralized (PIU an EPU) review of all
specifications for civil works, procurement, and training; and d) good M&E during project implementation.




                                                        - 30 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                53.05             83.98              0.00            121.52            258.55
                                          (53.05)           (83.98)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (137.03)
   2. Goods                                45.38              3.34              3.63             1.96             54.31
                                          (45.38)            (3.34)            (3.63)            (0.00)           (52.35)
   3. Services                             0.00               2.57              0.00             0.00              2.57
                                          (0.00)             (2.57)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.57)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00             22.32             0.00             22.32
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (22.32)            (0.00)           (22.32)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              2.44             0.00              2.44
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.44)            (0.00)           (2.44)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               98.43             89.89             28.39            123.48            340.19
                                          (98.43)           (89.89)           (28.39)            (0.00)          (216.71)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Civil Works                145.00       98.00                    137.03       121.52                 94.5     124.0
B. Goods                      60.00        28.90                    52.35         1.96                  87.3      6.8
C. Services                    3.00         1.60                     2.57         0.00                  85.7      0.0
D. Staff Development          24.60         0.00                    22.32         0.00                  90.7      0.0
E. Front-end Fee                                                     2.44
Total                         232.56       128.50                   216.71       123.48                 93.2      96.1




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic Costs and Benefits are not calculated for this project.




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/01/98                  4    EDUCATOR                         S               S
                                             TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                             RESEARCH ASSISTANT
                                             ARCHITECT


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/28/99                11     PROCUREMENT SPEC.                S               S
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             M&E SPECIALIST
                                             TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                             ECONOMIC ANALYST
                                             HIGHER ED. SPECIALIST.
                                             ARCHITECT
                                             SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
                                                STUDY
              04/19/99                  3    EDUCATOR                         S               S
                                             TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                             ARCHITECT

 Supervision
              11/18/99                  4    ARCHITECT                        S               S
                                             EDUCATOR
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
              01/18/00                  1    TECHNICAL EDUCATOR               S               S
              04/24/00                  1    EDUCATOR                         S               S
              06/14/00                  4    EDUCATOR                         S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
              10/03/00                  4    OPERATIONS OFFICER               S               S
                                             EDUCATOR
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             ARCHITECT
              06/20/01                  3    EDUCATOR                         S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                             ARCHITECT
              08/15/01                  6    OPERATIONS OFFICER               S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                                             EDUCATOR
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                             TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
              04/19/02                  5    OPERATIONS OFFICER               S               S



                                              - 33 -

                                           EDUCATOR
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                           ARCHITECT
               10/31/02                5   OPERATIONS OFFICER                 S    S
                                           EDUCATOR
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                           ARCHITECT
               05/09/03                6   OPERATIONS OFFICER                 S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                                           EDUCATOR
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                           ARCHITECT
               10/22/03                6   OPERATIONS OFFICER                 S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC.
                                           EDUCATOR
                                           PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                           TECHNICAL EDUCATOR
                                           ARCHITECT

 ICR
               03/01/05               4     OPERATIONS OFFICER                S    S
                                            EDUCATOR
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC.
                                            ARCHITECT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N/A                      382,754.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 N/A
  Supervision                           N/A                      535,818.00
  ICR                                   N/A
  Total                                 N/A                      917,571.00




                                            - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Borrower's Implementation Completion Reports for Loan 4451-MA, Volumes A through J,
Ministry of Education, Kuala Lumpur, October 2004.

Development of a New Funding Methodology for Public Institutions of Higher Education,
Innovation Associates Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, September 2004.

Inception Report, Development of a New Funding Methodology for Public Institutions of Higher
Education, Innovation Associates Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, August 3, 2004.

Kajian-Kajian Mengenai, Politeknik (Research Studies on Polytechnics), Jabatan Pendidikan
Teknikal, Kementerian Pendidikan Malaysia, 2003.

Loan Agreement ­ Loan Number 4451-MA- Education Sector Support Project, between Malaysia
and The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Washington, March 31, 1999.

Project Appraisal Document, (Report Number 18890-MA) ­ Education Sector Support Project,
The World Bank, Washington, February 12, 1999.

Project Status Report Files for Loan 4451-MA, The World Bank, Washington.

Project Communication Files (Aide Memoires and other formal communications) for Loan
4451-MA, The World Bank, Washington.

Tracer Study, In-service Courses Under The World Bank Loan (1999-2002), Research
Committee, In-service Course Unit, Teacher Education Division, Ministry of Education, 2003.




                                            - 37 -

- 38 -

