Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4451 MA
Loan Agreement
(Education Sector Support Project)
between
MALAYSIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 31, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4451 MA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 31, 1999, between MALAYSIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Affected Person" means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has or would have his or her: (i) standard of living adversely affected; 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including premises, agricultural and 
grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset acquired or possessed, temporarily 
or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat 
adversely affected.
(b)
“Basic Education” means 6 years of primary, 3 years of lower secondary 
and 2 years of upper secondary education.
(c)
“Construction Program” means the work program to be prepared pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement.
(f)
“Guidelines for Land Acquisition and Resettlement” means the framework 
prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, and as such guidelines may be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the Bank. 
(g)
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
(i)
“Project Polytechnics” means Politeknik Ungku Omar, Ipoh, Perak; 
Politeknik Sultan Haji Ahmah Shah, Kuantan, Pahang; Politeknik Sultan Abdul Halim 
Muadzam Shah, Jitra, Kedah; Politeknik Kota Bahru, Kelantan; Politeknik Kuching, 
Sarawak; and Politeknik Port Dickson, Negeri Sembilan, which are to be upgraded under 
Part B.1(b) of the Project. 
(j)
“Sabah” means the Borrower’s State of Sabah, and any successor thereto. 
(k)
“Sarawak” means the Borrower’s State of Sarawak, and any successor thereto. 
(l)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred forty-four million Dollars ($244,000,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
Page  3
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOE, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational, 
environmental, financial, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
Page  4
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for such period, 
which:
(a) 
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report, and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
The Borrower shall have appointed a procurement specialist in accordance 
with paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.  
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower’s Accountant General shall have issued procedural and 
management guidelines for the Special Account, satisfactory to the Bank, and which 
guidelines shall have been adopted by MOE. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Secretary General to the Treasury, Ministry of Finance of the 
Borrower, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
Jalan Duta
50592 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
Cable address:
Telex:
Treasury 
MA 30242 or
Kuala Lumpur
MA 32369
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
MALAYSIA 
By /s/ Dato’ GHAZZALI Sheikh Abdul Khalid 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Page  6
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
125,000,000
53%
(2)
Goods
 80,000,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 70% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants'
  3,400,000
100% 
services
(4)
Training
 23,000,000
100%
(5)
Fee
  2,440,000
Amount due 
under Section 2.04 
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
 10,160,000
 __________
TOTAL
244,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $10,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Part A 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but 
after July 27, 1998. 
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.  Except as the Bank 
may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of 
the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
Page  7
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, after the Bank has received evidence 
satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals from the 
Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be supported 
by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the amount so 
requested; and (ii) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project 
Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order 
to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount 
indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $48,000,000.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of  the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (a) mitigating the 
adverse impact of the regional economic crisis on its education sector; and (b) in its 
medium-term economic recovery by developing and enhancing student technical skills.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
Part A.
Basic Education
1.
Improving access to Basic Education, primarily in poor and undeveloped areas, 
through construction of about 35 primary schools, 25 secondary schools, 600 staff 
houses and student hostels to accommodate about 2,750 students and provision of 
equipment and furniture therefor.
2.
 Improving the quality of Basic Education by upgrading teacher qualifications 
and teaching skills through training and development of instructional materials and 
strengthening of the existing pilot school-to-work program.
Part B.
Polytechnic Education 
1.
Increasing student capacity of polytechnics through:
(a)
construction and equipping of a new polytechnic institute in Kota 
Kinabalu, Sabah, with a design capacity of about 3,600 students; and 
(b)
upgrading, expansion and equipping of Project Polytechnics to create a 
total of about 15,000 new student places at said polytechnics. 
2.
Improving the quality and relevance of polytechnic education through provision 
of training to about 1,130 polytechnic staff and revision of existing and development 
of new teaching curricula and materials. 
3.
Strengthening the information, planning and management systems of polytechnics 
through provision of consultants’ services and equipment.
Part C.
Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Improving the Borrower’s existing education management information system and 
expanding its usage, especially in Sabah and Sarawak, through provision of 
consultants’ services, equipment, furniture, training and instructional materials.
2.
Enhancing MOE staff’s policy and data analysis, strategic planning and 
management skills and academic qualifications. 
3.
Improving the Borrower’s higher education program by: (a) enhancing academic 
qualifications of university lecturers through provision of training; and 
(b) assessing the development and implementation of funding methodologies, impact of 
student enrollment expansion on education quality, and information technology 
strategies through consultants’ services.
4.
Enhancing the Borrower’s Project management capacity by increasing the number of 
staff at the Project management level and providing equipment.
*         *         * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions 
A.
General Definitions
Page  9
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement. 
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollar for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date preceding 
the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
Page  10
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount; 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-eighteenth (1/18) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after December 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Page  11
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (excluding 
furniture) and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods (excluding furniture) shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
(c)
Notification and Advertising 
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Each contract for: (a) furniture estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $13,200,000 equivalent; (b) goods, other than 
furniture, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $18,500,000 equivalent; and (c) works estimated to cost less than 
$5,000,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $121,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $7,800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to the following contracts: 
Page  12
(a)
each contract for works to be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Part B.1 of this Section I; 
(b)
in each calendar year, the first three contracts for works to be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section I; and 
(c)
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Part C of the Project that are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services under Part B.3 of the Project that are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services under Parts B and C of the Project that meet the requirements set forth 
in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  13
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
appoint a procurement specialist: (i) to work full time in the 
Development, Privatization and Supply Division of MOE and (ii) to be responsible for 
Project procurement and, thereafter, maintain said specialist throughout the period of 
Project implementation, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
by May 15, 1999, appoint an accountant, a Project manager and at least 
two additional technical staff (architect and quantity surveyor), each to work full 
time in the Development, Privatization and Supply Division of MOE and, thereafter, 
maintain said personnel throughout the period of Project implementation, all with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring and Reporting
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate, on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank an annual report, not later than October 1 in each calendar year, beginning 
on October 1, 1999, consisting of the following: (i)
a summary of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of this Schedule 5 
in respect of the current calendar year and setting forth proposed measures, indicated 
by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the 
Project; and  (ii)
an annual action plan and proposed budget for Project 
implementation activities to be carried out in the following calendar year, and
(c)
after furnishing the report referred to in paragraph 2(b) of this 
Schedule 5, review said report with the Bank, and promptly take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
Part A of the Project
Page  14
3.
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
furnish to the Bank, by May 15, 1999, a program for construction works to 
be undertaken from the year 2000, which program shall include:
(i)
a description of the proposed construction sites to be selected in 
states of 
the Borrower that meet the following criteria: (A) states 
with relatively less 
economic and physical development; (B) states 
with the lowest student academic 
achievement and performance; and 
(C) states that lack basic school 
infrastructure; and  
(ii)
a review of the design and costs of said construction works; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said program and, thereafter, take all measures necessary to carry out 
said construction works in accordance with said program, taking into account the views 
of the Bank on the matter. 
4.
In preparing the Construction Program, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of land or assets of 
persons and to avoid the displacement of said persons; 
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of persons is 
unavoidable, the Borrower shall, before carrying out works that would result in such 
acquisition or displacement, make available to such persons, compensation in 
accordance with the Guidelines for Land Acquisition and Resettlement agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more persons are adversely affected by 
works under the Construction Program, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Land 
Acquisition and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the 
Bank for approval; 
and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the said works, ensure that all 
Affected Persons 
shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan. 
5
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A.2 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, by October 1 of each year, commencing on October 
1, 1999, the final annual staff development program for the following calendar year, 
which program should specify the number of staff to be trained, the type and place of 
training selected and the costs thereof.  
Part B of the Project
6.
For purposes of Part B.1(b) of the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
furnish to the Bank for comments by June 30, 2001: 
(i)
a master development plan for each Project Polytechnic, developed 
in 
accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and which shall 
cover at least a 10-year period; and 
(ii)
a draft time-bound action plan for the initial five-year 
implementation of 
each of said plans; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plans. 
7.
For purposes of Part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  15
(a)
by June 30 in each year, beginning on June 30, 2001, furnish to the Bank 
for comments: 
(i)
the results of employer surveys of and tracer studies on graduates 
from the 
Project Polytechnics, carried out in accordance with terms 
of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii)
a draft time-bound action plan for appropriate modifications to 
curricula and 
enrollment planning, based on the results of said 
surveys and studies; and 
(b)
thereafter, implement said action plan, taking into account the Bank’s 
comments. 
Part C of the Project
8.
For purposes of Part C.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall by June 30, 2001, 
furnish to the Bank for comments:
(a)
a policy review on the effectiveness and efficiency of higher education 
resource allocation, carried out in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank, together with a draft time-bound action plan (including piloting) for 
modifications to resource allocation methodologies based on the results of said review 
and, thereafter, implement said action plan, taking into account the Bank’s comments; 
and 
(b)
a policy review on higher education quality assurance and information 
technology strategy, both carried out in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank and, thereafter, discuss the results of said reviews with the 
Bank.
