Doncuitu or
The WoLid Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
c.Q. 13qs-1f
lePwt No. P-3608-LA
REPORT AND RECONMENDATIIO
OF TE
PRESIDEiT OF TH
L4TERNAIIAL DEVELA IAML ASSOCIAON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
UN A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUN EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.80 MILON
TO
THE LAO PEOPLE'S DEMRIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
June 7, 1983
Tlis dcume bs a    ddibuti. and may be _ b   ie            oudy in           I pf e 
dS  lfiils dues Itr,1-ouyn  odwbe be &dbodwtbslt Wedd Bm   uwzl



CURREiICY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Kip (UK)
NK I.CO        - $O.100
$1.00          - 1K 10
NK 1.0 million - $100,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)           2.20 lb
1 metric ton (1,000 kg) 8 0.98 long tons
1 kilometer (km)          0.62 miles
1 hectare (l-)            2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYHS
BCEL       - Banque Commerce Exterieur du Laos
FAO        - Food and Agriculture Organization
IADP       - Integrated Agriculture Development Project
TFAD       - International Fund for Agricultural Development
OPEC Fund - The OPEC Fund for International Development
RAS        - Regional Agriculture Stations
SIDA       - Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP       - United Nations Development Program
LAO DESIGNATIONS
iChoueng - Province
Muong  -' District
Tasseng -Subdistrict
Ban     - Village
Houei   - River
GOVERNMENT OF LAO PDR
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE-S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:          Lao Peoples Democratic Republic
Amount:            SDR 5.80 million ($6.21 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:     The primary objective of the project is to increase
agricultural production - particularly rice, animal feed,
and sugar - and thereby to reduce imports. This would
be achieved by:
(a) expansion of agricultural productive capacity;
(b) strengthening of the existing agricultural
productive capacity and of the maintenance of
existing support infrastructure; and
(c) improvements in relevant institutional capacity
and operating procedures, particularly in pro-
curement, inventory control, planning, budgeting
and accounting.
The project vould finance six subprojects, namely:
small-scale irrigation; agricultural production support;
agricultural road maintenance; livestock feed production;
sugar processing; and warehousing and inventory manage-
ment. These six subprojects would be supported by tech-
nical assistance and training. The project would directly
benefit about 60,000 small farm families. The main risk
relates to the limited implementation capacity of execut-
ing agencies, including those agencies responsible for
timely procurement and delivery of spare parts, agricul-
tural inputs, etc.  The longer-term risks relate to the
ability of Government to provide foreign exchange to meet
associated recurrent costs. To reduce these risks, which
relate to all projects in LPDI, the project bas been
designed to improve and expand on those priority areas of
agricultural production, i.e. irrigated rice, feedgrain
and cassava production, which have already received
substantial financial and technical support, and thereby
[ Thidocument hs a restricted distributnu ndmay be used by repients only in the perornceof
tei offidi duties. Its contents my not otherwise be disod without World Bank authoiation



- ii -
build on existing investment and staffing capabilities.
Technical assistance under the project would also
provide training and help improve procedures for
procurement and handling of spare parts, etc. Foreign
exchange shortages will persist in LPDR for some years
to come, but the project would result in significant
foreign exchange savings by reducing imports of feed
materials and sugar, a saving of some $0.9 million each
year at full development.
Estimated Cost:                                         Local   Foreign  Total
--    (S  million)
Small Scale Irrigation Support    3.15       3.54      6.69
Crop Production Support            0.43      3.05     3.48
District Agricultural Road
Maintenance                      0.37      1.91      2.28
Livestock Feed Processing Support 0.26       1.95      2.21
Sugarcane Production and
Processing                       0.30      1.00     1.30
Material and Parts Warehousing
and Inventory                    1.12      2.58     3.70
Technical Assistance               0.08      1.06      1.14
Base Cost                     5.71    15.09    20.80
Physical contingencies              0.17     0.64      0.81
Price contingencies                 1.33     1.83      3.16
Total Projet Cost             7.21    17.56    24.77
Financing Plan:                                         Local   Foreign  Total
--(S million)-
Government                          7.13     0.08      7.21
IDA                                    -     6.21      6.21
IFAD                               G.03      7.35      7.38
OPEC Fund                              -     3.11      3.11
UNDP                               0.05      0.81      0.86
Total                         7.21    17.56    24.77



- iii -
Estimated          IDA FY            1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Disbursements:                      -  --($ million)-
Annual            0.3      0.9     2.2     2.2     0.6
Cumulative        0.3     1.2      3.4     5.6     6.2
Economic Rate      18% (Small-Scale Irrigation and Sugarcane Components)
of Return:       which together amount to 32% of project cost.  Benefit-
cost ratios have been determined at between 1.1 and 1.9
for 26Z of the project costs relating to increased rice
*i                           and livestock feed production.  Other elements, totalling
42% of project cost, do not lend themselves to quantifica-
tion of benefits.
Staff Appraisal    Report No. 4543-LA,  dated June 7, 1983.
Report:
IBRD No. WB 17124 - Lao People's Democratic Ripublic.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIO'NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE LAO PEOPLE-S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR THE AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 5.80 million ($6.21 million) equivalent on standard
IDA terms to the Lao People's Democratic Republic to help finance an
Agricultural Production Support Project. IDA would finance the project on a
parallel basis with the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD), which would provide an additional $7.38 million for the project, and
the OPEC Fund, $3.11 million. The United Nations Development Program and IFAD
would also jointly provide the equivalent of $1.2 million on grant terms for
technical assistance associated with the project.
PART I - THE ECON4OMY
2.        An economic report iu two volumes entitled -Socialist Transformation
in the Lao People's Democratic Republic- (No. 2282-LA, dated February 26,
1979) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 20, 1979. An
economic mission visited the Lao PDR during February 1982 to discuss recent
economic developments, government policies and the five-year development plan
for 1981-85. A Country Economic Memorandum is currently under rreparation.
Country data are given in Annex I.
Development Constraints and Development Strat.Bgy
3.        The Lao People-s Democratic Republic (LPDR) is a landlocked and
mountainous country with ar area of 236,800 sq km. With an estimated per
capita income of approximately $145 in 1980, it is one of the poorest
countries in the world, despite considerable resources of land, timber and
minerals and its potential for hydroelectric power. Most of the country-s
3-3.5 million people live in poverty, and about three quarters of the labor
force work in agriculture where techniques are generally primitive and yields
are as low as anywhere in Asia. The country regained food self-sufficiency
only in 1982 after several years of being dependent upon foreign aid and
imported rice for a considerable part of its basic foodstuffs. As a result,
malnutrition has been widespread, infant mortality high and life expectancy
low. The LPDR consumes practically all that it produces and has virtually no
national savings, so that it is almost totally dependent upon external
assistance for financing its development proiects.
4.        The LPDR-s poverty and economic structure are the result of many
factors. They are partly the product uf centuries of isolation, weak
government and economic domination by its neighbors which inhibited the
development of activities other than subsistence agriculture. For three
decades before the signing of the Vientiane Peace Accord in 1973, the



-2-
country suffered not only the physical destruction of war, but also the
structural distortions of an economy dominated by a disproportionately large
urban service sector geared to war and foreign military assistance. The
continuation of political instability since 1973 has exacerbated the country's
geographic and economic constraints. The major development constraints facing
the economy are inadequate internal and external communication networks, a
critical shortage of skilled manpower and consequently weak economic
management, a low level of national savings and subsequent reliance upon
external assistance to provide the large amounts of capital needed to make
productive use of the country-s natural resources, and a very poor information
base.
5.        While the emergence of the LPDR in 1975 represented the first
unified central government since the country-s independence in 1952 and made
it possible for a concerted effort to develop the economy, the Government-s
immediate priority had to be to establish political and administrative control
and to feed and resettle the population. Between 1975 and 1977, the Aconomy
was in a state of crisis, with negative growth rates, unemployment, a raoidly
deteriorating balance of payments and budgetary position, and severe
inflation. Bad weather in 1976 and 1977 deepened the economy-s decline, with
rice production falling drastically as a result.
6.        Beginning in 1977, the Government has given greater attention to
economic management and the long-term development of the economy within the
zontext of a socialist transformation of society. In 1978, an interim
development plan for 197R-80 was published, designed to guide economic
activities until the completion of a five-year plan for 1981-85. The major
objective for 1978-80 was to develop agriculture so as to secure food self-
sufficiency as quickly as possible, and the Government gave priority in its
development expenditure plans to irrigation and resettlement schemes. Other
objectives stated in the Plan were to increase exports (largely wood and
electricity), to improve internal and external communications, to establisb
more effective education and health care systems and, in general, to create
conditions for a sustained and broader development of the economy in the
following decade.
7.        In 1981, the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan was approved.  Although it has
not yet been published, the contents are known from a variety of Government
and Party statements. The major objectives are to complete the process of
securing food self-sufficiency; develop nonrice crops for internal consump-
tion, industrial processing and export; expand forestry production and
industrial output; improve communications through the construction of Route
#13 (the main north-south road' and rural roads, and extornal communications
through the completion of Route #9 to Viet Nam: expand the education and
training system; and improve the state-s management of the economy through
appropriate policies and the gradual development of socialist production in
agriculture, construction, transport and trade. The Plan also provided
indicative macro and sectoral targets, which suggest that GDP in real terms
will increase at approximately 7% per annum, agriculture at about 4% per



- 3 -
annum and industry at 17% per annum. The targets envisage an annual increase
in investment of 8%, with domestic and foreign funding increasing at approxi-
mately the same rate. The development priorities of the Government are
highlighted by the fact that 80% of investment is expected to flow to the
productive sector, and in particular to communications and agriculture. The
Plan also envisages rapid growth of exports and imports, particularly with the
country-s socialist trading partners.
8.        The major lines of Government-s policies to attain the general
objectives of the Plan have been given in various documents. This policy
framework reflects the view that the development of the LPDR is a long-term
process, that the 1981-85 Plan can achieve only the first step in this process
and that the Government-s limited control of and 'knowledge about the economy
makes reliance upon administrative controls and direct state intervention
undesirable. Government policies are, therefore, designed to stimulate
production and trade by the private and individual sectors, while the
Government concentrates upon improving the capacity and efficiency of the
state organizations and upon investing in infrastructure, such as roads,
irrigation, education and agricultural support services, required for future
development. Important components of this policy framework are the mainte-
nance of realistic prices, increased financial viability of enterprises under
state control and an accent upon rural development and increased
responsibilities of provincial governments.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        The elimination of war-related expenditures and a drastic reduction
in aid receipts after 1975 led to a sharp decline in modern sector activity,
the elimination of much of the services sector, severe urban unemployment and
a drop in urban living standards. Thus, between 1975 and 1977, the LPDR
suffered from negative growth, inflation and severe shortages of local and
foreign Lxchange. Bad weather in 1976 and 1977 severely affected agricultural
production, with rice production falling drastically because of drought, and
non-rice crops also declining as farmers were forced to grow food in the face
of the disintegration of the national market. The drop in Government-s
revenues and the demands upon it for food and resettlement led to excessive
liquidity expansion; as a result inflation was as much as 30J percent per
annum.
10.       Early in 1977, the Government started to implement policies which
were largely aimed at contrnlling excess demand, improving budgetary disci-
pline, a-d reducing public enterprises- deficits.  The Government increased
the supply of goods by allocating foreign exchange for the import of necessi-
ties and intermediate inputs, raised procurement prices paid by the state
trading company for some food and export crops, began to dismantle controls on
the movement and marketing of goods, and attempted to reduce the budget
deficit through tax reform and tighter scrutiny of expenditures. These
measures did contribute to a slowing of inflation, but domestic production
continued to decline. GNP in 1977 fell by 22 because of production declines
in agriculture, forestry and industry, and by the end of 1977, it is estimated
that GNP was iO% below that of 1974.



- 4 -
11.       Since the beginning of 1978, however, the LPDR economy has expe-
rienced considerable growth, albeit from the artificially low base of 1977.
GNP is estimated to have increased by about 7% per annum in real terms
between 1978 and 1981, led by the agriculture sector and in particular by
the 11% per annum increase in paddy production. Forestry, industry and
internal trade also increased activity levels considerably during this
period. The recovery of the economy can be explained by three factors.
First, by the end of 1977, the worst consequences of the postwar upheaval
had been mitigated. As a result, it was a natural consequence of a more
stable environment that economic activity wot.ld recover. Second, the
weather .mproved, particularly in 1979 and 1980.  Third, the Government
introduced u5de-ranging reforms between 1978 and 1980 which were designed to
stimulate prcduction and trade, to raise domestic budget revenues, and to
increase spending on development activities.  However, these improvements in
domestic activity were not transiated into improvement in the country-s
external account, and after 1979, exports stagnated so that the large
current account deficit had to be financed from external assistance and the
running down of the country's meagre forefa'n reserves.
12.       The Government-s economic reforms began in earnest in 1978 when
the kip was devalued from 200 to 400 kip = US$1; some procurement prices of
export goods, notably coffee and wood products, were increased; the budget
was formulated on the assumption that the structure of expenditures would be
changed towards development; and provincial authorities and private traders
were given greater latitude to produce and export goods. Developments in
1978 and 1979 showed the impact of these measures and much improved weather,
as GNP in real terms grew by 2% and 10%, respectively. Paddy production
increased by 25Z over the two years, forestry output rose by similar amounts
and the small industrial sector began to expand output as domestic demand
increased and the supply of inputs improved. After a relatively small
increase in exports in 1978, exports tripled in 1979 because of increased
official sales of timber, coffee and electricity and a resurgence in private
trade across the Thai-Lao border. Imports also increased, and as improved
food production domestically permitted a reduction in food imports, a
greater share of imports was in the form of machinery, spare parts and raw
materials.
13.       These improvements in the economy's performance were not, however,
matched by improvements in the Government-s budgetary position. The
domestic tax base was severely limited and the major source of revenue, the
state enterprises, was also a major item of expenditures, much in the form
of subsidies. They and the ration system for public employees constituted a
quarter of total expenditures in 1979. At the end of 1979, sweeping policy
changes were announced to deal with these problems; they were designed to
accelerate the economy-s growth rate, to increase exports and to inc-:ease
resources flowing through the state budget, basically by shifting th-
official terms of trade firmly in favor of rice production and exports, by
giving incentives to farmers to sell to the state, by eliminating subsidies
and by restructuring budget expenditures. Procurement prices for most crops



-5-
and export products were raised by 300-500%, official retail prices were
raised to parallel market levels so as to eliminate virtually all subsidies
on goods sold by the state, and a currency conversion followed by a 60%
devaluation was carried out. In addition, the Government announced a
slowdown in its plans to introduce cooperatives and removed all controls on
the internal movement and trade of goods.
14.       The economy continued to experience rapid growth across all
domestic sectors during 1980, when real GDP increased by at least 10%,
largely because of a 16.5% increase in paddy production, but also because of
*       substantial increases in nonrice agriculture, forestry and industry.  The
policy reforms had a significant effect upon the Government-s financial
position. Government-s purchases of rice from farmers quintupled, to 7X of
production, and collections of tax tripled, to 6% of production. The former
increase was due to the Government-s willingness to negotiate prices with
farmers on an individual basis and to supply a variety of consumer goods,
and the latter increased because of better tax administration and a reform
of the law governing the agricultural tax, which lowered average and
marginal rates. Furthermore, tax revenues increased because of improvements
in the financial position of state enterprises, and the elimination of
subsidies to enterprises and through the ration system allowed a shift of
emphasic towards development expenditures.
15.       These positive developments, however, were offset by the external
sector. Exports fell in nominal terms, partly because of renewed difficul-
ties on the Thai-Lao border and partly because of internal transport diffi-
culties and weaknesses in the management of the state trading company.
Imports continued to increase, largely because of Petroleum product price
increases and increased purchases of raw material-, spare parts and invest-
ment goods. As a result, the current account deficit increased and could
not, in view of the unexpected shortfall in exports, be fully financed by
capital inflows, so that foreign exchange reserves were reduced.
16.       The economy continued its growth in 1981, when GDP is estimated to
have increased by 5%. Paddy production increased by 4%, thereby permitting
the Goverment to declare that its major objective of food self-sufficiency
was secured, and nonrice crop production, forestry and industry continued to
grow. This continued growth was, however, accomplished only because of a
fairly strong reversal of worsening trends in the first half of the year.
Economic developments in the first six months of the year were affected
adversely by closure of the Thai-Lao border between February and April;
further dislocations to trade caused by the reorganization of the state
trading company; new restrictions on private border trade and the announce-
ment of limitations on the export of logs; delays until March in finalizing
the budget which led to fuel shortages and slowdowns in investment and state
enterprise production; wad finally, a lower inflow of aid t;ian predicted in
the budget.
17.       As a result of these developments, the Government reviewed the
budget and investment plans during the middle of the year, reducing both



- 6 -
recurrent and development expenditures. However, in the second half of the
year, the economy reversed direction. This was partly because private trade
recovered, following clearer definition of its role by Government and
following the opening of the border in the south late in the year; and partly
because Government was able to secure more aid and external capital than
considered possible at the mid-year review. While these developments
permitted domestic activity to recover, the balance of payments continued to
weaken as both exports and imports decreased in nominal terms compared with
1980. Exports fell by 30%, in spite of an increase in earnings from elec-
tricity sales brought about by renegotiation of the sales agreement between
the LPDR and Thailand. The reduction was entirely because of a fall in border
trade which was associated with border problems and Government policies, but
the failure of official exports to increase reflected the continuing
weaknesses of the state trading company and the limited ability of the
economy to produce exportable products. In the face of reduced exports and a
large decrease in commodity aid, the two major sources of foreign exchange not
tied to project implementation, imports fell by 8% in nominal terms.
18.       In 1982, the Government planned that growth of the economy would
continue at a lower rate. Initial estimates that paddy production would
increase by 2.5% were, however, revised following a mild drought in the first
half of the year, and it was projected that the total paddy crop would be no
higher than in 1981. Production in other sectors was expected to increase
about 10% in real terms, budget revenue was expected to increase rapidly so
that it would more than cover recurrent expenditures for the first time, and
both exports and imports were projected to increase by similar absolute
amounts (150% and 33%, respectively, in relative terms) thereby maintaining
a current account of about $120 million.
19.       Following the mixed results of the adjustment policies introduced
earlier, the Government took steps during 1982 to restore the state's compe-
titive position and the impetus for growth. During 1981, rapid inflation,
brought about primarily by the border closures and previous pricing changes,
undercut the competitiveness of the state procurement prices. Prices paid
by the state for agricultural and forest products were increased, so as to
increase output and purchases by the state for domestic use and export, and
retail prices of products of state enterprises were raised substantially to
eliminate all losses. The kip was devalued from 30 kip = US$1 to 35 kip =
US$1, and this rate was applied to virtually all foreign exchange transac-
tions. An increased flow of consumer goods to rural areas was financed from
both foreign aid and from increased foreign exchange earnings from electri-
city production, thus providing a further production incentive, and the
state-s purchasing program was extended to all agricultural crops. The
Government continued the process of eliminating its ration system for state
employees by reducing the scope of the ration system and increasing prices, so
that today only rice is subsidized. In compensation, state employees were
given a much-needed salary increase, while the Government also announced that
it would be reducing the size of the public labor force. In addition, the
Government carried out a major m1nist-rial reorganization, introduced reforms



in the state enterprises to increase their commercial orientation and
indicated that private activity in construction, industry, etc., would be
encouraged. In addition, it is now carrying out an interest rate study which
should lead to reforms in the future, permitting more domestic savings and
credit to the private sector. Finally, the Government began reviewing its
external aid and borrowing policies so as to control future debt service
payments and to make more effective use of external resources.
Development Prospects
20.       In the long run, the LPDR has considerable economic potential
because of its resource base of land, timber, minerals and hydroelectric power
sites. However, the development of these resources will require very large
capital investments in infrastructure and productive facilities. In the
medium term, the pace of the economy's development will be constrained by the
need to alleviate the major constraints of communications, manpower,
information and reliance on exteroal assistance. The pace of development over
the current Plan period will be determined primarily by the ability of the
country to maintain its food self-sufficiency, to increase exports and obtain
external financing for development projects, and to increase the absorptive
capacity of the economy through expanding construction and skilled manpower
resources and through organizing the operations of the state sector
efficiently. Furthermore, and most importantly, attaining the objectives of
the current Plan will depend greatly upon the maintenance of a Government
policy framework which stimulates production and trade by farmers, forest
workers, artisans and traders.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.       The Lao People's Democratic Republic (then known officially as Laos)
became a member of the Bank in July 1961 and of the Association in October
1963. The proposed credit would be the Bank Group's fifth operation in the
country. During the wartime period, the Bank Group's contacts with the LPDR
were limited. In 1966, at the request of the former Vientiane Government and
bilateral donors the Bank agreed to act as the administrator of the Nam Ngum
Development Fund, which was established with grants from nine bilateral
donors to help finance the first stage of the Nam Ngum hydroelectric scheme
located about 80 km north of Vientiane. The project was successfully
completed in 1972 and has been expanded with assistance from various sources
since that time. In April 1975 the Bank co-sponsored an Aid Group meeting on
the country, chaired by the Asian Development Bank. In early 1976, after the
political transition and the establishment of the Republic, the new government
requested IDA to begin lending operations along the lines discussed in a
preliminary way at the time of the Aid Group meeting.



- 8 -
22.       The first IDA credit to the LPDR (760-LA for $8.2 million) was
signed on January 5, 1978. There have been three further credits: Credit
924-L; for $10.4 million, signed on June 15, 1979; Credit 1021-LA for
$13.4 million, signed May 22, 1980; -and Credit 1197-LA, for $15.0 million,
signed on March 3, 1982. The first three credits were for agricultural
rehabilitation and development, with the key objectives being to improve the
quantity and quality of food production. The first two credits supported
intensified rice cultivation through irrigation development; improved seed
production, fertilizer use, and pilot extension activities; pig multipli-
cation; and feed grain production. The third credit concentrated more on
post-harvest losses by providing for improved rice mllling, coffee
processing, and upgrading mechanical workshops. IDA has worked closely with
UNDP and FAO in the design and implementation of all of the credits.
Physical execution of these projects has been slow, as would be expected,
and operations continue to be affected by a shortage of counterpart funds,
spare parts, and materials, and a lack of qualified local staff for some key
positions.
23.       A fourth credit was designed to expand the Government-s electri-
city exports to Thailand, to the mutual benefit for both countries, by
installing a fifth turbine generator unit (40 MW capacity) at the existing
Nam Ngum power station. The project also included studies for additional
hydroelectric projects in the LPDR to further increase exports of power to
Thailand. The project and the studies are progressing well.
24.       The Bank Group-s relat,onship with the LPDR has been gradually
strengthened. The approval of th2 four IDA credits, the work of the
economic missions in 1978, 1981, and 1982, and the appraisal of the proposed
project have all helped to c_eat- an atmosphere of increased understanding
between IDA and the Government. While a generally sound basis for IDA
operations has been established, it will take time to build a working
relationship that will enable the LPDR to achieve the maximum benefits from
its membership in the Bank Group.
25.       A primary objective of Bank Group strategy in the LPDR is to conr-
tinue to improve our knowledge of the economy and of specific sectors so as
to maximize the contribution of limited IDA resources to meeting the LPDR-s
development needs. The Bank Group intends to use its economic, sector, and
project work to gain a better understanding of the country3s priorities and
constraints, as well as its institutional and management systems. In line
with the country-s problems and priorities outlined in Part I above, and in
view of the scarcity of technical cadres experienced in project planning and
implementation, IDA staff will seek priority projects for financing that
promise fairly quick returns, and encourage manpower and systems develop-
ment. With the attainment of rice selfsufficiency in 1982, our goal now is
to assist the Government in maintaining that advantage, to encourage export
development, and to support reforms in state enterprises to gradually
increase their commercial orientation.



- 9 -
26.       The LPDR faces substantial difficulties in mounting a sustained
development effort and in mobilizing resources to finance productive invest-
ments. While opportunities will be sought to coordinate IDA activities both
in project preparation and financing - with bilateral and other multilateral
aid programs, we should be prepared to make a relatively large commitment of
staff time and to finance a high percentage of total project costs.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
27.       Agriculture is the backbone of the Lao economy and by far the most
important sector. Approximately three quarters of the labor force derives the
bulk of its employment and income from this sector and its production
constitutes around 70% of-GDP. Most of the agricultural production in the
LPDR is carried out by family cultivators who typically till about 2 ha of
land (part lowland and part upland) to which they have customary settler and
cultivation rights. Few rural dwellers appear to be without land. Since
1975, a number of state farms and cooperatives have been established in
accordance with-Government's policy of introducing socialist forms of
production, but as yet they occupy a relatively small proportion of cultivated
land.
28.       The predominant crop in Lao agriculture is glutinous rice, which
takes up more than 80% of the cultivated area and is grown by almost every
farmer. Many farmers grow only rice and only enough for their own needs: it
is not clear what proportion of farmers provides the marketed surplus. Rice
production in the LPDR is very vulnerable to the climate, since only about
30,000 ha of the 700,000 ha cultivated with rice are irrigated. Less than 1%
of total production is pro-rided through dry-season irrigation. Sixty-five
percent of rice is producel from wet-season lowland areas, with about 34%
being produced in upland areas. Unreliable rainfall often leads to drought or
flooding. Thus, the typical production of rice in the country is one crop per
year from rainfed lowland or upland paddy fields; some of the upland rice is
produced through -slash and burn methods.  Typically, rice is not produced
using intensive cultivation techniques even on irrigated areas; inputs of
fertilizer, pesticides and labor per hectare are low, and yields are
correspondingly low, ranging from 1.1 ton/ha on upland paddy to 1.6 ton/ha on
wet-season lowland paddy and 1.9 ton/ha for dry-season irrigated paddy.
29.       Corn is the only other grain grown in significant amounts in the
country. About 25,000 ha are grown annually; yields are low and most is
grown for household consumption. Small but increasing amounts of corn are



- 10) -
being purchased by Government for processing into animal feed, but up to
700 tons of corn are still imported annually from Thailand to meet animal
feed requirements. Corn production and improved seed for corn and other
upland crops are being supported under the second IDA credit (924-LA) to the
LPDR. Other food crops are confined largely to backyard production or on
small plots around urban areas; these include vegetables, soybeans,
groundnuts and mungbeans.
30.       The main industrial crops in the LPDR are coffee, tobacco and
cotton, which occupy a few thousand hectares each and have low yields.
Production was severely affected by the destruction of plantations during
the war and by subsequent neglect. Coffee production and processing are
being assisted under the third IDA credit to the LPDR (1021-LA). Sugarcane
is grown, but no mechanized processing facility exists and some 5,000 tans
of sugar are imported annually at a yearly cost of about $2 million.
31.       Livestock also plays an important role in agriculture, as a source
of draft power and protein. There are no reliable data on either livestock
numbers or animal offtake. but the populations were depleted during the war.
There are reportedly some regional shortages of buffalo, which inhibits land
preparation and reclamation activities. Typically, farming families keep
poultry, pigs and cattle in backyard operations. A pig multiplication unit
producing some 3,000 piglets annually was established under the first IDA
credit while other bilateral and international sources have supported
vaccine production, animal health, chicken raising and buffalo production.
Animal feed is produced using a facility financed largely through
German-French aid.
Government Objectives and Strategies
32.       Over the 1978-81 period, agriculture was the focus of a great deal
of government policy, both directly and indirectly, since the major aim was
to make the LPDR self-sufficient in food, both nationally and by province,
and by doing so to provide a higher standard of living for the rural and
urban populations and to generate a surplus for investment. The Govern-
ment-s strategy for agriculture has had four major components: first, the
organization of production activities on a cooperative basis; second, the
rehabilitation and construction of irrigation facilities to permit double
cropping, better water control and thus more intensive methods of produc-
tion; third, the construction of roads and a support system for agriculture,
including credit, extension, seeds, etc.; fourth, the provision of incen-
tives for production. Over the past Four years, implementation of the
policies has proceeded to varying degrees. The following outlines the main
achievements within these objectives and indicates how the proposed project
has been formulated to alleviate some of the major constraints.
(i) Cooperative Development
33.       Although up-to-date figures on cooperative development are not
available, it is generally stated that between a quarter and a fifth of



- 11 -
farming families are in about 2,500 cooperatives, which form about the same
proportion of the cultivated area. Most are fairly loosely formed groups.
The-Government-s statements on cooperative development have increasingly
acknowledged that the extension of cooperatives is a long-term objective,
and that the r.ite of growth of the cooperative sector must coincide with the
growth of cooperative management and training to ensure their success.
Currently, cooperatives are being encouraged in areas where draft power is a
constraint and where tractors are required. The proposed project, while not
supporting cooperative establishment, would support the improvement of
agricultural production among farmers, including cooperative members, who
have access to improved crop technology through the agricultural extension
service.
(ii) Irrigation Expansion
3&.       Steady, but slow, progress has been made in irrigation over the
past seven years. In 1977, it was estimated that some 20,000 ha of lowland
rice was flood irrigated by small pump schemes and stream diversions. About
7,000 ha of this area produced a second crop in the dry season. By 1983,
the irrigated area has grown to about 30,000 ha with 10,000 ha producing a
second crop. By comparison some 82,000 ha of potentially irrigable land has
been identified for small- and medium-scale irrigation development. Never-
theless, only about 3,000 ha of farmland can be brought under irrigation
each year, despite the substantial technical, training and financial assist-
ance provided by bilateral a. d international sources. The main constraints
are the severe shortages of foreign exchange for construction materials,
fuel and spare parts, the chronic shortage of trained manpower, and ineffi-
ciencies in the whole process of procurement, materials management and
delivery. An important component of the proposed project would be the
development of the institutions and systems for expediting procurement and
for maintaining stocks of frequently used materials and spare parts.
(iii) Extension Coverage
35.       The  LPDR has only a small extension service, but it has been
growing in effectiveness over the past four years as a result of modest
technical and financial support provided by UNDP/FAO in conjunction with the
three earlier IDA credits for agriculture. Some 200 agricultural techni-
cians make up the extension service, although their level of training is
quite low. About half the technicians are located in Vientiane Province,
while the rest are spread mainly over the three southern provinces of
Khammouane, Savannakhet and Champassak. Most effort is directed to some
10,000 ha in the above provinces where irrigation development has taken
place, but severe foreign exchange shortages limit the amount of inputs
available and therefore constrain the adoption of improved technologR.
Support would be provided under the proposed project for agricultural
inputs, but would be limited to use in those areas covered by the extension
service.



- 12 -
(iv) Production Incentives
36.       The policy area in which most progress has been made since 1978 has
been the incentive system. As previously indicated, the Government acted on a
number of fronts from the beginning of the 1979 crop year to stimulate rice
production.  In 1979, the Government introduced an import program for consumer
goods to be sold to farmers in exchange for rice, and at the end of 1979,
complemented it by large price changes which shifted the terms of trade in
favor of farmers. The shift in the terms of trade was increased by the
revision of the law on agricultural taxation, which ensured very low marginal
rates of tax rather than the high marginal rates applying before, and by the
introduction of a range of prices for state purchases with which the state was
prepared to negotiate. Collectively, these measures were designed to increase
production of rice and to increase the tax receipts and procurements of the
state. The increases accomplished the latter aim and, along with improved
weather, probably contributed to the increase in cultivated area under rice in
the last three years. Similarly, procurement of corn through official
channels for use in the country-s main feed mill has increased as incentive
prices are paid for corn. The project would further support such policies by
linking project funds for feed grain imports to feed grai-n production
incentives.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       In the seven years since the revolution, the Government has been
receiving increasingly larger amounts of bilateral aid and assistance from
international organizations. Much of the assistance has been used to initiate
agriculturally related development projects in support of Government's pri-
mary objectives of attaining self-sufficiency in rice production, increasing
availability of other foods and reviving agricultural exports. While most of
the projects have included considerable amounts of funding for technical
assistance and capital equipment to help alleviate chronic trained manpower
and budgetary constraints, the pace of implementation has generally been slow.
This has been due in large part to slow procurement and delivery of goods, and
also to inadequate counterpart budget to purchase the spare parts, fuel and
construction materials needed to maintain works. Once work stops on a
project, equipment and labor is typically transferred to another project
location, often resulting in delays of six months or more before returning, by
which time the long-awaited inputs have been diverted to meet the urgent needs
of yet another project. Projects have therefore commonly taken twice as long
to complete as originally planned. In response to these institutional,
financial and technical constraints in the implementation of all projects in
the LPDR, IDA and IFAD missions which visited the LPDR during 1982 gave
particular attentioL to identifying a project which would address these
problems, while not adding further project investments in areas where imple-
mentation capacity is already overburdened.



- 13 -
38.       Ongoing activities funded by IDA credits include small-scale
irrigation; intensification of rice production through improved seed pro-
duction, fertilizer use and pilot extension activities; rehabilitation of
rice milling and coffee processing facilitie*; and expansion of seed grain
and pig breeding capacity. The small-scale irrigation and rice intensi-
fication activities will be complete within the next 18 months, and
Government requested further IDA assistance to continue expansion of these
programs, and also to initiate or expand a number of small-scale,
supplementary activities, e.g., to increase dnmestic production of animal
feed and initiate sugar production.
39.       The project was appraised in January/February 1983 by a joint
IDAIIFAD mission and negotiated in the LPDR in May 1983. The Lao delegation
at negotiations was led by Mr. Latsany Khampboui, Vice-Minister of State
Planning Committee. Comprehensive project files and technical assistance
documents are available and will be provided to Government to assist in
implementation of each of the project-s major components. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 4543-LA, dated June 7, 198j) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
40.       The primary objective of the project would be to increase agricul-
tural productionr-particularly rice, animal feed, and sugar--and thereby to
reduce imports. This would be achieved by:
(a) expansion of agricultural productive capacity; and
(b) strengthening of the existing agricultural productive capacity and
of the maintenance of existing support infrastructure;
In addition, the project has been designed to alleviate key institutional,
and technical constraints which have seriously delayed the pace of the
implementation and the realization of benefits from ongoing agricultural
projects in the Lao PDR. These constraints would be addressed by:
(a) establishment of a system for maintaining inventories of
frequently needed spare parts, construction materials and
agricultural inputs in the country to minimize lengthy work
stoppages and to enable the other projects to meet seasonal
production targets;
(b) streamlining procurenent and delivery procedures for regularly
needed goods, and establishnent of guidelines for standardizing
equipment and material purchases;
(c) improvement of the budgetary processes and the procedures for
monitoring project expenditures and physical achievements; and



- 14 -
(d) provision of training through technical assistance to expand the
manpower base of government staff familiar with basic institu-
tional processes such as budgeting, accounting, procurement and
project mtanagement.
Project Description
41.       Six priority subprojects would be supported under the proposed
credit, viz.
(a) Small-Scale Irrigation Support. Development of small-scale
pump and gravity-fed irrigation schemes (100 to 300 ha each)
over some 3,600 ha primarily in Vientiane Province but also
in the major rice growing provinces of Khammouane, Savannakhet,
Saravane, and Champassak. The project would also include
repair and maintenance of some 1,200 existing small pumps
in these provinces. Survey and design work for construction
are well advanced, and the location and designs of irrigation
works would be approved by IDA prior to the commencement of
works by November 1 of the year preceding implementation
(Section 4.07 of the Credit Agreement);
(b) Crop Production Support. Increased paddy and upland crop
production through provision of agricultural inputs, land
preparation for upland crops, and improvement of agricultural
extension and research coverage;
(c) District Agricultural Road Maintenance: Provision of limited
equipment to the Vientiane Provincial Authority to improve
access to markets through the maintenance of feeder roads in
major agricultural production areas of the Vientiane Plain;
(d) Livestock Feed Processing Support. Development of a small-
scale, animal feed industry (10,000 tons/year), based primarily
on locally produced raw materials and geared to supporting pig
and poultry breed improvement and multiplication for on-farm
raising and fattening by smallholders and cooperatives.
Small, specialized processing equipment and maintenance would
be provided to fully operationalize the country-s major feed
mill, and essential raw materials would be imported in con-
junction with a program to rapidly increase the proportion of
locally produced materials in the feed mix. Disbursements
against raw material imports would be contingent on a satis-
factory increase in the proportion of locally produced raw
materials in the feed mix (Schedule 1 para. 4(b) of the Credit
Agreement). However, to limit the need for imported feed
materials Government agreed at negotiations to limit the rate
of expansion of intensive pig and poultry enterprises in



- 15 -
accordance with the rate of increase in the production
of feed locally. Priority uses of feedmix and rates of
increase of locally grown material in the feedmix were agreed
upon and are set out in a side letter to the Credit Agreement.
(e)  Sugarcane Production and 'rocessing Support.  Establishment of a
small-scale sugar processing facility to process locally grown
sugarcane into about 1,000 tons of plantation white sugar per
year, thereby substituting for about 2oz of annual sugar imports
and providing quality sugar for the country's confectionary and
soft drink industries. The specifications for the mill would be
subject to mutual agreement between IDA and the Borrower and
management and staff for the sugar mill would be appointed prior
to completion of the mill-s installation (Schedule 1, para. 4(c)
and Section 4.02(b) of the Credit Agreement); and
(f) Material and Parts Warehousing and Inventory Support. Improvement
of systems for imaterials and spare parts inventories, procurement
and delivery of materials and spare parts through provision of
warehousing and related equipment, and technical assistance in
warehouse management, inventory control, standardization and
procurement.
Technical Assistance and Training
42.       Long- and short-term experts would be provided to establish
systems and train staff in spare parts inventory control, work programming,
budgeting, and accounting, and in sugarcane production, at a total cost of
$800,000. IFAD and UNDP would collectively provide technical assistance
grants for about 72 man-months of long-term experts ($6,700/manr-month),
24 man-months of short-term experts ($8,000/month) and also provide 72 manr
months of overseas fellowship ($2,500/man-month), 105 mar-years of study
tours ($2,000/tour) and about 924 man-months of in-service training
($83/man-month). Costs include remuneration, travel and all overheads. The
three long-term experts in warehouse management, budgeting and accounting,
and sugarcane production would be in place not later than March 31, 1984
(Section 4.03(b) of the Credit Agreement).
43.       The three lcng-term experts, to be funded by UNDP and executed by
FAD would assist Government in carrying out the various project works
provided for under the project. Four groups of short-term experts, to be
funded by IFAD and executed by Government, would assist Government by
setting up systems and procedures for key government functions relating to
procurement, inventory control, accounting and auditing which would be of
benefit to other government projects and which would help perpetuate the
project-s institutional benefits beyond the life of the project. Each
expert would train local staff, especially in regard to the newly designed
procedures and systems. IFAD and UNDP would also provide funds for training
through international study tours and fellowships, and through inrservice
training. Study tours would usually be of about two weeks' duration and be



- 16 -
to neighboring countries (a) to observe agricultural extension methodology
and applied research practices and firdings and (b) to attend conferences
and visit countries where experience could be gained of value to the work
areas covered by the project. Fellowships would generally be for one year's
duration and be for specialized training in agricultural production and
processing. Tn-service training amounting to about 924 manrmonths would
largely be for agricultural extension and research staff. Some farmer
training would also be included. Responsibility for arranging and
coordinating training would be that of the Project Manager of the UNDP/FAO
Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) which incorporates the
training assistance to be provided by UNDP under the project. The IADP
project was signed in April 1983 and an experienced agricultural expert has
been appointed as Project Manager.
Project Coordination
44.       In accordance with recently modified procedures, the State
Planning Committee is responsible for coordinating and approving all
technical ministry work plans in the context of their conformity with the
National Plan and with the national budget. Technical ministries are also
required to submit seni-annual progress reports to the State Planning
Committee. The proposed project would be coordinated through the State
Planning Committee and would therefore: (a) help to institutionalize the
new procedure; (b) provide a focal point for Goverment to monitor and
evaluate the project and (c) establish a more effective mechanism through
which the project could be supervised. In particular, supervision missions
would be able to review overall annual work programs and projected expendi-
tures of individual ministries, thereby providing a better perspective of
their implementation commitments. Technical assistance would be provided to
strengthen budgetary procedures and to train staff in the preparation of
work programs, budget requests and accounts. An expert would be attached to
the Department of Evaluation in the Ministry of Agriculture, since that
Ministry would be responsible for implementing most of the subproject
activities. The State Planning Committee would prepare an annual evaluation
report on the progress and expenditures for each project component. This
report would primarily be prepared for review at the vice-minister level of
the State Planning Committee. However, a summary of the report would be
prepared for IDA. At negotiations it was agreed that annual work programs
and budgets would be provided to the Association by November 1 of each year
for each of the components of the project, and annual progress reports would
be submitted for review by June 1 of each year (Sections 4.05(b) and 4.07 of
the Credit Agreement).
45.       Since the project largely supports ongoing activities of Govern-
ment, organizational and staffing arrangements are generally in place.
Government has appointed a Project Coordinator in the State Planning
Committee to oversee the project-s implementation (Section 4.02 of the
Credit Agreement) and has agreed to provide a list of managers in each of
the agencies with responsibilities for carrying out the project. Project



- 17 -
managers would he identified in the Ministry of Supply, Ministry o.'
Industry, the Departments of Irrigation, Evaluation, Agriculture anu
Livestock of the Ministry of Agriculture and in the Vientiane Provincial
Departments of Irrigation and Public Works. Likewise plans, survey and
design work are sufficiently advanced to allow the procurtment process to
commence in accordance with the projected schedule. The Irrigation, Crop
Production, Livestock Processing and Sugar Milling subprojects would be
implemented by various line agencies relatively independent of each other.
Project Costs
46.       Total costs of the three-year project would be about $24.8 mil-
lion, of which about $17.6 million, or 71X, would represent foreign exchange
requirements. Costs of goods to be procured under the proiect would be
exempt from all taxes and duties. A physical contingency factor of 10% has
been applied except for technical assistance and those components where
financing has been provided for a time slice of ongoing operations, i.e.,
irrigation development and feed and agricultural chemical imports. Physical
contingencies amount to $0.8 million or 4% of the base cost. Costs are
based on May 1983 prices and include expected price increases over the
implementation period of $3.2 million or 15% of base costs plus physical
contingencies. Price increases for local costs were assumed at 102 for
1983, 8% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986; for foreign costs at 8% for
1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985 and 6% for 1986.
Financing
47.       Total financing would amount to $17.56 million (71% of project
cost, eqqual to 100% of foreign exchange costs), including $1.1 million (6% of
project cost) to be provided as technical assistance grants by IFAD and
UNDP.  IDA, IFAD, the OPEC Fund and UNDP would cofinance total project costs
in the following proportions: IDA $6.21 millioh (25%); IFAD $7.38 million
(30!), iacluding $0.39 million of technical assistance grants, the OPEC Fund
$3.11 million (13%) and UNDP $0.86 million (3%).  IDA, IFAD and the OPEC
Fund would cofinance the project on a parallel basis. IDA funds would be
disbursed against the three subprojects covering Livestock Feed Processing,
Sugarcane Processing, and Material and Parts Warehousing. IFAD would
disburse against expenditures under the Irrigation Subproject and under the
Crop Production Support Subproject.  The OPEC Fund would disburse against
the Upland Crop Production Component of the Crop Production Subproject and
the District Agricultural Road Component. Cofinancing terms would be the
standard IDA, IFAD and OPEC Fund terms. Cross-effectiveness and cross-
default clauses would be included in the agreements of the respective
cofinancing partners. Government would meet the balance of project costs,
NK 72 million, or 29% of total project costs, from normal budgetary sources.
Procurement
48.       Procurement, except for small items and fuel, amounting to about
S5.0 million, would be on the basis of international competitive bidding.



- 18 -
At a minimum, tenders would be advertised in an English language newspaper
in a neighboring country where international firms are well represented.
For goods such as spare parts and construction materials, amounting to about
$2.0 million, which would need to be procured on a continuing basis, and in
the case of spare parts with particular brands specified, bidding and con-
tracting procedures would permit long-term contracts to be negotiated among
a small number of qualified suppliers (usually a minimum of three).
Technical assistance would be provided to develop tender, contractual and
payment procedures which would be appropriate for the LPDR and consistent
with internationally accepted procedures. Turn-key tender procedures for
the sugar processing facility ($1.3 million) would follow a two-stage
procedure whereby evaluation would first be made on technical grounds and
then on the basis of price to ensure that adequate weight is given to both
aspects. For orders less than $75,000, not exceeding $2.4 million in
aggregate, local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to IDA could be
followed. Some 15 international firms, largely Thai with some Japanese and
European firms, are represented in the LPDR and are able to offer
competitive prices on small orders. Fuel and lubricants amounting to $2.1
million would be procured mainly through existing long-standing contracts
between Government and Shell Co. (Laos) which is the only firm with fuel
storage facilities in the country. Should Government wish to procure fuel
and lubricants from other sources, disbursement would be contingent on
submission of documents for review by IDA detailing the comparative cost
advantage of alternative sources. For all contracts estimated to cost
$100,000 or more, the Association's prior approval would be required before
invitations to bid are issued, and before contracts are awarded.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported materials, spare parts, equipment,
vehicles, fuel, and lubricants; 100% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured materials, parts and equipment; 100% of the foreign exchange
cost and 80% of local costs for turn-key contracts for installing the sugar
mill and 75% of expenditures for locally procured materials, spare parts,
vehicles and equipment. Because of severe foreign exchange constraints,
prefinancing IDA-s share of project expenditures by Government is not
possible and would lead to considerable delay in procuring such items as
spare parts. Large purchases of imported goods under the project would be
financed through Letters of Credit covered by IDA-s agreement to reimburse.
However, for small expenditures this would not be practical. Therefore, to
provide Government with funds to make small purchases under the project. a
revolving fund would be set up in a Special Account of the Borrower from
which IDA-s and IFAD-s share of the costs of materials, spare parts, and
equipment, as well as civil works construction could be financed. The
amount in the revolving fund would be sufficient to cover about three months
of project expenditures, but excluding those expenditures which would be
large enough to be paid through other disbursement procedures. An initial
disbursement of $250,000 would be made from the IDA Credit account and



- 19 -
$500,000 frM. L,le IFAD Account/I to the Special Account which could then be
replenishe;. up to a maximum of $250,000 and $500,000 respectively upon request
nf ;;e, 5orrower, supported by documentation satisfactory to IDA.  The Account
would be established in US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA.
GovernmenL would open a Special Account in a banking institution acceptable to
IDA as a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 2.02 (b) of the Credit
Agreement). Withdrawal applications submitted to IDA would be supported by
documents in accordance with standard IDA requireeents. Project works are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1986. Disbursements would be
completed by December 31, 1987.
Accounts and Audit
50.       Expenditures under the project would be recorded in accordance with
established government procedures, i.e., the Ministry of Materials would
maintain records of all goods procured under the project, including details of
delivery to implementing agencies. Similarly, the Ministry of Commerce would
keep records of fuel and lubricant deliveries. Records of payments against
these items would be kept by the Department of External Finance of the
Ministry of Finance. Each implementing agency would maintain records adequate
to reflect how goods were utilized. The Audit Department of the Ministry of
Finance is responsible for auditing all government accounts and would also
audit the operations of the Special Account (para. 49). Government has been
unable to meet audit requirements under earlier IDA credits. Nine man-months
of technical assistance would be provided by IFAD to help strengthen account-
ing and auditing procedures. The specialists would (a) review accounting and
auditing systems and procedures in the Audit Department, National Bank of Laos
and the major operating agencies, (b) determine existing accounting and audit-
ing capability, (c) recommend improvements to these systems, and (d) identify
technical assistance and training required to introduce the proposed systems.
In the operational agencies, i.e., feed mill, agricultural machinery, live-
stock production, and raw material procurement organizations, the accounting
systems would be improved to permit better cost accounting of their opera-
tions. Government would submit annual audit reports to IDA for the project by
no later than June 30 of each year including audit reports on the operations
of the revolving fund (Section 5.01(c) of the Credit Agreement).
Cost Recovery
51.       Despite the general subsistence level of farming and institutional
weakness of supporting government agencies, the level of cost recovery from
farmers receiving inputs is quite high. The Ministry of Agriculture, which
handles the distribution of fertilizers and mechanized farm equipment to
farmers and cooperatives, attempts to recover 100 of the cost of such
goods. Repayment is made in terms of paddy and the cecord of repayment is
reportedly above 8oz. This relatively high recovery rate can be largely
attributed to the small amounts of goods being handled, and to the close
/. IFAD-s use of the Special Account will be determined during negotiations
of the IFAD Financing Agreement, tentatively scheduled for the end of
June 1983.



- 20 -
supervision given to newly formed cooperatives. However, the main difficul-
ties relate to lack of standard procedures for rescheduling payments in
years of poor crop yield and in accounting for repayment in a way which
allows recovery to be broken out from the general administrative budget of
the Miiistry of Agriculture. There are also questions relating to how the
price is determined for goods which have come in through grant funding or
bilateral aid and how to expand government assistance programs for the
benefit of a wider range of farmers. It will be important for Government to
address these issues if the high level of cost recovery Is to continue as
the program for distributing inputs grows and if Government is to meet its
increasing local recurrent cobt needs. Under the oroject, Government would
set and maintain prices for processed feed, fertilizers and machinery services
for land preparation, and weaner pigs at levels which reflect the financial
costs to the relevant agencies providing them (Section 5.02 of the Credit
Agreement). Cost accounting for agencies supplying these items is to be
strengthened under the project (para. 50) and details of these costs, and of
prices charged during the previous year, would be included in the Annual
Progress Report to be submitted by the State Planning Committee. Cost
recovery for irrigation works is currently restricted to having farmer
beneficiaries pay for electricity used in operating pumping stations. This
appears to be a realistic and practical level of recovery for the LPDR at its
present state of development.
Project Benefits
52.       The project is designed primarily to assist Government to maintain
the momentum of its agricultural development, in particular the expansion of
food and animal feed production to meet local demands, through financing of
high priority inputs and elimination of organizational inefficiencies which
hamper the effective use of capital goods. At full development of the pro-
ject, the annual value of increased production of rice, corn, cassava and
sugar would have reached about $7.1 million. Net foreign exchange savings
from import substitution of corn and sugar would amount to $0.9 million
annually. Cassava is not currently imported and rice is imported only in
limited commercial quantities. The import substitution value of these two
commodities would be almost $3.9 million. The project would directly assist
about 60,000 farm households, or more than 10% of the total, the majority of
whom are dependent upon their own production for subsistence and have few
sources of additional income.
53.       The six project components described in para. 41 can be looked
at as expanding agricultural production in three major fields, i.e.: (i)
increased rice production through irrigation development; (ii) increased
rice and livestock feed production through agricultural extension, input
supply, improved land preparation and feed processing support; and (iii)
increased production of sugar through improved cultivation and expanded
processing capacity. The economic evaluation of the irrigation and sugar
development components, totalling $6.8 million or 32% of project cost, was
done by computing economic rates of return (ERR). For the rice and feed
crop production components, as well as for the support provided for



- 21 -
livestock feed mix production, totalling $5.3 million or 26Z of project
cost, benefit/cost ratios were computed.  The results of these analvses are
given below. However, as described in paras. 41 and 42, the project also
provides some $8.7 million or 42% of project cost (a) to provide improved
access to key agricultural areas; (b) to speed up the procurement and
increase the availability of agricultural inputs, spare parts, etc.,
(c) to provide a small amount of extension and research support; and (d) to
repair irrigation pumps. These elements of the project do not lend
themselves to conventional economic analysis, since neither the benefits
likely to result from changes, such as improvenments in goverrment procedures,
nor the speed with which they would materialize, can be quantified with any
accuracy. For the pump repair component, the degree of repair needed would
vary greatly from pump to pump, making it difficult to quantify the benefits
with any accuracy. However, since the pumps potentially serve some 20,000 ha,
hut effectively operate on less than half of this area, the proposed repair
and maintenance costs would be more than offset over the project period by an
increase in production of about 200 kg of paddy/ha/yr. This would be readily
attainable.
54.       In the economic analysis of the small-scale irrigation component
and for the analysis of the sugar production and processing component, costs
and benefits were valued in constant 1983 prices. Separate analyses were
conducted for each of the three forms of irrigation being assisted under the
project, i.e., weir schemes, pumping schemes and rehabilitation of existing
schemes. The overall rate of return was determined to be 1B%, with a range
from 16% for weirs to 20% for pumping schemes. The higher rates of return
for pump schemes reflect the experience that about 50% of the area served hy
pumps can be irrigated in the dry season, compared with only about 30% for
gravity-fed schemes. The econor'c rate of return for the sugar production
and processing component was estimated to be 19%.
55.       The rice intensification and upland feed crop production components
which surport the small ongoing programs of Government to improve paddy
production and to rapidly expand pork and poultry production, would result in
substantial improvements in the food situation by increasing paddy production
by 3% (100,000 tons) over the three year project period, and hy providing
livestock feed sufficient for producing some 4,300 tons of pork. The value
of incremental paddy and feed production at border prices would amount to
$14.7 million for paddy and $9.0 million for feed when processed into
compound feed over the three-year project period. Production costs
associated with the rice intensification program during the project period
are estimated to total $7.6 million, resultinR in a ratio of benefits to
costs of 1.9. Similarly for the production of the upland crops of maize and
cassava for livestock feed, production is valued at $2.45 million over the
project period, and associated costs would be $1.53 million. This gives a



- 22 -
a beaefitfcost ratio of 1.6. Total costs associated with producing feed
over the project period would amount to about $8.27 million. This would
result in an overall benefit/cost ratio from producing and utilizing feed for
intensive pig and poultry units of 1.1.
Project Risks
56.       Development activites in the LPDR have been hampered by a range of
institutional, financial and technical constraints, e.g., lack of implemer-
tation capacity, lack of external funding for critical import requirements,
supply bottlenecks, technological uncertainties and limitations of technical
expertise. The design of the project has been largely predicated on the
need to tackle these problems in order to minimize the risk of implementa-
tion delays or failure to achieve benefits of improved technology. The
projected pace of implementation starts at levels consistent with average
performance under ongoing programs. The agricultural production elements
of the project are being supported by technical assistance inputs funded by
the project, or by other multilateral or bilateral aid agencies. Technologies
to be used in the project are -well tried, and would be implemented only in
areas with adequate extension coverage. The substantial technical assistance
component of the project, while primarily intended to improve systems and
train staff, would also enable transient implementation bottlenecks to be
identified and addressed with minimal delays.
57.       A longer-term risk relates to the ability of the Government to
meet foreign exchange requirements of recurrent costs. Fcreign exchange
shortages will persist in LPDR for some years to come and it must be anti-
cipated that Government will continue to face diff_culties in meeting
recurrent costs. Since the project has been designed primarily to strengthen
and expand on project activities in which Government is already involved,
the incremental recurrent costs for the Government have been minimized. Also
by supporting local production of feed grain and sugar, this project would
provide import savings of some $0.9 million annually at full development.
To offset difficulties in meeting local recurrent costs, Government has
recently introduced a new budgetary procedure wherebv counterpart funds are
apjen'riated on a project-by-project basis to ensure that such funds will be
available for those priority projects for which Government has obtained
external financing.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the La- People-s
Democratic Renublic and the Association, and the Recc-mmendation of the Com-
mittee provided in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association a e being dist ibuted sepa ately to the Executive Di ecto s.



- 23 -
59.       Special conditions of the development credit are listed in
Section III of Annex III.
6u.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONIS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
June 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
24                                     Page I of 5
UC PM   SOCA  INDICATORS DO    SrW
1*0 PNM                         RERRUEOI  CUEXRIUU  ATEfAAR
AREA (SADNM S .                                                                   ,  -   ainz
roIAL  2 s.,ga                                            NM ic           u    NO
IA~1CULTURL      16.7                1960 /b   L90 /b    ESTDA   lb  ASIA 4 PACIFIC         1S1*A  PACIFIC
GNP FM CAPITA (USS)                      ..         ..             ..           261.4                NO.
EiERG CaO sUMPT    PER CAPIA
(KtLOGRAMS OF CL           )         16.3       99.1           97.8           487                  701.7
POUL4?IO D  VIUL SrATIS
FOPUUXAOU. ID-TEA  (TIJSDms)       2355.0     2869.0         3U26.0
MRU"A POPULATION (PECENT or TOTAL)    7.9        9.6            3s             17.3                 34
POPULAC PROJECTNOIS
POPULATION IN DUA  ZOO (NILLU)                               5.2
STATIONII? POPpuLArIN (m ILIovS)                             U2.9
TEAlt STArIOAT POEULAZZO  ZS  ID                           2135
FOrMATn    DESITY
MR SQ.  .                           9.9        20            14.1    I S 8.1                     255.9
PE SQ. EN. AGRICULIURAL Lu        L136.1     173.5          201.1           335.9               1748.0
POPUIATXON AGE SUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 IRS.                          41.2       41.7           46.8            36.8                 39.9
13-4 IRS.                           56.4       55.7           50.5            59.7                 56.8
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                    2.4        2.6            2.7             3.5                  3.3
POPULATIm GEWTE RAT E CPERCENT)
TOtAL                               Z.2        1.9            1.8             2.0                  2.3
URaIN                               3.1        3.8            5.2             3.3                  3.9
CRU  SIRTH RATE (PE THOSAN)          42.1       44.4           41.7            29.3                 31.8
CrU  DEA3I RATE CM THDUSAIID)        19.1        8.7           20.8            11.0                  9.8
GROSS REPRODUCrXON RATE               2.7        3.0            3.0             2.0                  2.0
FAMILY PLANNIN
ACCEnmS. AMIUAL CTMSANDS)            .
USERS (PERCEN OF MARRIED             ..         ..             ..              .         3        363
FOOD AN        ioN
PE CAPITA (1969-71-100)            83.0      101.0          111.0           108.1                115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT Of
REqUIRiET)                       90.3       99.8           94.0/c          97.3                106.4
PROTEIS (GRAMS PER DAY)            54.3       60.1           ST.47-          56.9                 54.4
OF 111CR ADIMAL AND PULSE        10.7       12.6           13.Ir           20.0                 19
CHILD (AGES 1-4) mORTALIrY RATE      24.0       22.2           16.5            10.9                  6.7
IMAL3P
IJFE EXPECrACY AZT BIRtH (tEARS)      4.2       "6.1           42.6            37.8                59.S
flFAMT MORtALITY ItTE CPE
THOUSAND)                           155.0      146.6          128.8            89.1                 63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPMlATION)
TOTAL                                         48.0             .             32.9                 32.0
URBAN                               ._        97.0                           70.7                 51.9
RMUL                                 ..       39.0             ..            22.2                 20.5
ACCESS TO ELCITA DISPOSAL (PERCEYT
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                ..         ..            3.01d          181                  37.7
-UR                                   ..         ..           10.071          72.7                65.7
RUMRL                                ..          .            2.071           4.7                 24.0
POPULATION PUR PYSICIAN          5335227    159162         20044.1f         3297.8                50.4
POPUATION PER IHSNC PERSCF         4949.9/J   4356.3         304k frf        4929.3               4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            3207.811    1132.4         946.81d        1100.4               1047.5
LUiaN                             385.27;    269.3             ..           301.3                651.6
RURAL                            9044.171   2685.1                         581m.7               2597.S
AORISSIONS PER HOSPXTAL BED                      8.9           10.21/            .                  27. s
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEOLD
TOrAL                                - -'
URBAN                                _.         _.
RURAL                                 ..
AVERAGE MASER OF PERSONIS PUR ROC
TOTAL                                                     ..              ..
DAIN                                 ..         ..             .                ..
RURAL                                ' '-
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF ONELLNB)
TOTAL                                ..         ..
URA                                  ..         ....
RURAL                                . _        ..



- 25 -                                         ARM  I
Page 2 of 5
4L0 PM - SOCUL  IlCA!S DAT SR?
h1.0 S                            W        miGOO  (S t   AG=    ZS
N- W  5mD3 xSTUImAT.-
RUst ErUE        LWi Ib        -ZI    8
1960  A    197 tb    Z197542  lb  ASA l s Acc          AS  & PACWI
EDUCATION
aZuTD AEIUoM    RATIOS
n1mhY:    TOtAL                     25.0       56.0           93.0            97.4                 96.2
It"                    36.0        67.0          101.0           101.0                 ".5
nEAwz                  IG.0       460.0           55.0            87.8                 92.1
SICOAU:  TOAL                        1.0        3.0           16.0            53.0                 37.6
3*1.1                   1.0         5.0           20.0            63.S                 41.1
EZ                      0.4        2.0            12.0            41.3                3MA1
VOCATIOIL ENROL. (10O  SEICUD )         9.4        13.9            2.5/c           1.7                 20.5
PUPtL-TEACM RATIO
nRDLUX                           31.9        36.0           30.0/c          37.7                 35.5
s55J3A1                             17.7       16.9           20.S7           20.2                 25.0
*DUIX L1rAcir AU (IRCER              26.3/*        .           41.0            52.1                 73.1
CONSUWIIOW
PASSENGEK CAMS IEn IAOMOS
PONULAIEN                           1.4         3.9            4.4k            1.5                  9.8
RADIO RZEK1NRS MM D200SAND
POPULjTIg                           5.3        17.6           59.6            35.4                116.5
TV RICEIVEDS PER TIUOAID
PFULA                                 -          *-             ..             3.2                 37.6
ImTtrEBr) CIRCULAIW PER
TiEAXD POr.AnOR                       5.41*        ..            1.6/d          16.4                 53.7
CIEA AIAL AITEUDJMM PU1 CASa          o. 27       0.4             ..             3.6                  Z.8
IABOI FORC
OAL LBO10    CIOSAIMS)              I129.3     1437.1         1335.7
I2AZ  (HRCUT)                      47.0        45.1           44.5            2S.S                 33.6
ACRICUIUZM   CPERCRs?)              03.0       79.0           75.0            70.0                 52-2
11USA  (PRrUUfl                     4.0         5.0            6.0            15.0                 17.9
PA"1PATC RATE (Sl)
TOrAL                                 56.7       50.4           4.9             40.0                 35.5
3ALZ                                 57.1        54.5           49.5            51.3                 50.5
EoLaz                                52.3        46.0           *0.0            23.8                 26.6
ECOUlIC DERERCEY RATIO                  0.5        0.9             1.1             1.0                  1.1
iscas DISTRIUTITOU
PE3CER OF M"47AT ISCONZ
P I oE DIT    ^ D
HiGiE= 5 FERCsT Or __US_OLDS 
IGU7M  2 1PC2 Or  1USEUOLS            ..         ..
Ulll25 23 P3.3 OF 351301              ..         ..             .                ..
11614 0 PCM   oF  ..Lu              ..          ....
-rVE    TAR    5am
csru ia          POvm  iac
L211EL CUSS PER CAPI)
3lAdi                                ..          ..             ..           133.8                194.7
RUAL                                  _          _               _           111_5                155_1
ESTDUAMED RE1LA.ll scum   110CM
IZIEL CUSS PER CAPIT)
,U n_                                            ._             ._              ..                175.2
AIRAL                                                                                             164.9
ESrLUAZD POPUIOI SILOWI A301
101EJ! DUCI  LIVE? (FIRCUTr)
3AM                                  .3.8. ..                   ..            63.5                 24.4
RURAL.                               ..          ..             ..            51.7                 41.1
Not avalable
Not apicable.
/a  The grop avrage for eac indicator ae populatiou-ulgbted aitheetlc isms. Coverage of cmtreas
mog the IzlcAters d_*ed  m availabliry of data am  1* not esfoa.
/b  USlem  otbervdia noted, date for 1960 refar to any yer  betwen 359 and 1961; for 1970 bet_e 1969
and 1971; ad for lot lecent Eatate, betu ae. 1975 amA 1930.
/c  1977; Jd 1975; 1. 1962; /f 1976; ,  1974.
may, 1962



ArIN4jEX I
- 26-                                                           Page 3of 5
mm.  h.b..~ tb.  .6. -46   16     w...li, j       tb.. adb.i6Uns. -a t.1166. It ahI8 .1.. 6. -9"  3am aw  w - C  6. 9.w.
666U  o.w.bU b.--0.  16 . l..k .1r .60471.8 6              s6196  ad   n6   ..  by dUfm  intl.  1. ..U2c'. ch. "W6.  U  .g A               . 
161.......   _.  __.16  ta.9 .              f 16411.1  t.a.. adW    6..  6666.1- -W  f199.1i-.. beM            -gg.-
-~  .9.6W  g..q...(1) _6 67   m .9 C C. adj_..    _,6y ad C" . -   .ty                    60.p6B -.*t 61. -.u   Km  -166  Ch. -7661
.9  66  .6.6t1.67   *.pi  .."3966 t--6   01a hup-767    .7-p   7.- 'f5ld4. 160   16 1..- -ad Mmdi. E.60  3. %66  h.6    .9 66
mICtzy .  166 ac.6011.         . C  .. 86  91161161.07   19.6 lb.1.6116.6    6W6p9L.S- -. 6.681066b1". 46i -4  d166                   - 01.hS6  .9  .
-   I681.6       l-61  in  6b. 66117 -68 7.60666106.
4616     (t66.a .q6.                                                                   11666736i6-64-v61 c06,,.ad -11- 7.-69.b=9. L
8116671- ff01*16.  K66tm.1-0l .7   6466..7-   P6.-617                            6601.61 A. P6661  ad 17L    6.6--I 64 ptll         -8 6p1w. ad
....C-P.. p6i.   1.ib ad k16066   wd-  -  W 11. 96I-. 1919 4616                      1*1110t11* 1u.6-6  M16u.761   -0 ..6*193-t. p.li            y  .1.996
by - &--    pby636160  I-Mtb-1C66  .7-9d.Z P1166p.11177-7
Cil FncArTa D~3- GM p.o -.pi6. ..iad60. .6 C-C ...6  poK.. .61-                    dud1 0.  -  -c1188   1M61 b6p11.1.. 66-r6. 3.616. h-,th6
6116.4 bp  -~  -.9          166d -1 3.11 I.& ALIi  (1975-40 b.1.); LUG..               ad  PdSC.1          -tl.   p-.i ly  L.U.99   by . phy.Skm   (6. by .
1970. ad 1160 4661.                                                                    664161  6611-.   ..1.64...  W.) .266kb .91* ml-v.19.-
4611. ad Padh. 1i4z.  .~  .9 668SC   1*Ift1.. F.. .I.i.
osmwTIin Pu 9179A - A--L.   --P1.  .9 -    -in.    -w  (--1                       1960 p-y. ..b   1*117.1               MOM68   W7I.1S.1P-6... 66.711...
604 Ii6.i61     ~     ~     ". p..146   ..619*1  6,8.- .  ..9..  ad M-6b-.A  .1..-     .64  -6.1 66660.  6016017  66.pim1  -d .64661 ad 7-67117
671.1.7) U6 611.67- .9 60.1 .171.1.3L P-7 19.11; 1960. 1990. "6 1979.0.f*11S0   6111 -. m.1.4d -aIy ad7- 11.1
M  ...  l7 -6046I a" - 7.66  -.b  .9 6469.1.60. -  811676
POPKLATIW AID VITAL S7*AT51C9
16661 7.1.1.16. 104-7.6  ftb_...d   - A. 9 J.17 1: 1I60. i930. -a  im                m1
8.66.                                                                               *6 ~ 1   w-"    -  PPL-L;.7.6. 5..   ..6d   ..  6   6...d  d1.  6*   dt.
81991.664~6111i  9 7166 .t4 Ism    .9.1.0.6117.   .0a    66,61                                     .6..I   ..                  6,  "11..
1.661.1mm-160                  p7t1-p-1.61-9b" -61                              A- ...pft7   WC .          .. .1716 -b- -6.1  b- . 7--6MPA-"    67
tA961   ....  by0p60              - 1*.6616.M.1  176.a11r ..t 667IU- - 190          6 .  p.r.. -WcE .. 9. .-11 ..6p. 7-C"  --1 ..p-C4 M..9
66   pP1- ...syv -     .1   -  7-lt 161      .lItr 7EC- 961117 60.                 A-IE3.         16.1.1136..... .-..60.0.-
S. IZ 1.*to7.  61766 9.1...9. 6006 ...t.y  P-r cw'"i  Km                        6106  -. 29t1.tftyi 90 6   f9 811m.g.) - t.6.1  60660  7-  1-t1 -
&.-I1. -d 96W!. Lit.16607 761....--tlf    77.  wa.. T66 p-                         1*m.61 4.311.   ".90  .11671711  6 116066 170              -  .771-63
i.. E6r 1.711116  -t. .1.o 66. MSr. 1.1. -          1M 4.11-1*  ..  .c1    d. 604 191 46.1175g  -.6p.669.l
9.yhU-1 y 1. .64b0t -066W  -  0 1   - y-1-6sl -pl.7-.  I679.1-                 ZOU..
lb.66C 61137 S     166    ch.7- -.h -      o -161.. ..-e.                                          "L ...M....   ,6.1117  KT6W                   vp_.1
51.1...6  b. T1.1.6   1.. bt..m.-., p..1606 MM67  S.  a1- 63  Wm                Pty  66.m-  .61 w 1."tA- 9-10 - 1*               . d -. ad 97-U
16  11   ..1_6.q..  -1.   4.11 I..  - 61.. 6        06761                     6. b.9 -11  6.660t E     tbL   potI-W.y -1.  W- ,76..g.9   f..61
7-              169. I.-L  -1617..  7-  .917   917 P1866w 8.111* II                       1       _      _.1.g   -111. -...7-I,1.1-d  .614.  .. P-1
C1 .1.i   b1...  971-   9-18 c.11I6  16..6.  h.6  666071116                    6.-  -6  ppa.6.  b917 19-  1.666 C.9 pr1*t~ .&.C..9
.w6  6.1..  I.p..6467.i0..   b   ..i7... 6  I.i .. 661.. - 96   6 f- .996.  6.1.
9.l.11 9. M      7   6  ..94.           .997116   1-1.11-11-.., ..6.- 661. -. .14 P-* -1 9.668-9..  6.4
T-  .1.1966   p7,116016  La ..C.68   Th. 567-       .11.6. p0i.                        pP..14. jp-Ca.  -.t61*01 . - 1606. 179.3  611.*  f-0 F6PL.
..160.11 6 7.16b4.                                                                   -..117 .9 12 M6 ly 7I.  f9 .1p  20,676t             6  6   -6117
PZ.p.m..-. 0..i.                                                                         716.4
P         - K1d-W-7p...9.  I p-     k. 617.  9160 h.-) f-1                  W9.160 1  -:-1.6  ..019666.-     ..9.9S61.9.
1..  ;1910. 193D 7d 1979 8.-.                                                16064.60.361   .-7..  66 ..    .6.17   WC06694.64
ft.ll..An   0,-  (71751  -6614. (0-Ic 7.6... 6..S.0   (13-                     M767  6  6.471..1. 8116  7vy                   .96.67   .6
11.;10. 1910. 7-  1960 d4.6                                                  A4.Ii 111.7.1,  ~   9071.1   - U.... 411(*.674  -03)
ft=.1. S  C,.b1 p... 9..y.t  - 666  - 86.6  .76-        ..... t.9. .18-                   8p1616663  .9  "0.I  .11 Wp.UtI11. .a.  is 776   d  -60_
76   pP.   1650 9.. 1970-0                                                              C-1(P-70. ad 1975--00.-1
C,69 31-0660.(p, 663._66   - 7-..  1160 61166 p.   6..-9..7.                            0.1.0.  L66  1    .169.. P.0I..d.7.la..6...  6
P.P..1-...: 1960. 19M5 ad 1960 4..                                                    mIoy  .17I.-
676." D.Kh1 010 .7 H  76.6) - 86l. d6.66  P6. 9661-d  .9 M16-p                       3.4. I.1..(.  67.d.yS.)-  All -,w. 69  -6.L-. f- 9..1
9,.   ..do1. a-. - A-Ca.  -.b  .fd.h-0..  -n  6011 b-.  9.                      119.6.1  7.61-  1. .6-C.. ad 9. 7*-l  A-.t 7.3117-S. .9 749.
66..761 177061160P-11.  if 666 6061600 V76-- .6-W-.619k 960.                   66 -   II f99..; 866  9676.67-  --C              61 1.600b1. .6.60
t11i1.  76.:66117 9107.-,6001 61   9 196. 1970. M.  1960.                            -60a t-9. 6.19.6.9 110-.C.1
_1.61. PI=S. - 1*7..  6..1(69685- 1..    .60  r9 60761..                             TV 1f.7.6       (~.  h-"..8...11*   TV ..1-.t 9f7 6..t.1
lS 61769.161  .116  7-0  .lo.19  161661 96011  PL166 P7_1.                 6.-11 p9611C p7. tb--6d Po.6S6   1618. .411.606  TV 760..-
17-. 77-93 -0616 17161.9...l.8.~.  - 1.7..1.7.  7-.1.                       9. 1661.  ad 9. 7    *13. 116616.910 T. -                 S. .96
601..9 1114-6.7.6 ., (15-c  y--76         Mr..  176. 601 8-.616  t.          360606  91706609.  (76  7..7  l661I.11) - 1660..16  -..     CE.-
9.86 .7 7.8a1876...  671  919-71.1002 - 168.6.9p- 7.pIt    .1                       eI6-   -- A-1...60  ..97m.. 7p            6  - M.-4 -0 166 -.b-  f
p16.W-996 . .11 96   .1l6    78013 E.t1.86. ...8 a -9. a" d                           1066..1 -Id    m  1.6 7-C.3.69.  41... .C1 8.11*-. Cl-_6.
1*168 .   p.) ..17   - 68661. ad 66.1.1  .601.6. (..&. 1.99. 7-
6160. 61646).4661991  7..11163.9  -6  -317 L. b66.8                      L"=.36 room
3666661116076. p.8... 61.6716.1: 1*-6.. 190. .8 Km8.6.        76.9 196. 1-.71. 9166-)- 11W-761   166   7 . 611d81
101661.6168- 1.1(d -6`61106 6.11661 16 17-167 "I0 6`61w                     16.1. pwacl601.'6.f11 .          D. .9911.169 6166   66il 
.77  Ap. 11.61. -.-pI1  1.-Ki. 4-11  pr.46t61.. IW.161  1-                          601 -66-b0.61   1960. 1970 -ad  Kmn 8~.
*.7l~. 7  16.st.  .11.1   367..pl. .18   ..1 9... ....t6.1  (fl--01  - 7.61. 19b6  960.6  .7--60166  161.1 166. 96-.
t06111.66  3 .8 p.1.g  ad Z...-  S. d1-.166616-  6.911-                                 (p1116.     LA76.)-  .. 9.96 1. f-S646. 967667. 1*136 -ad
601666 6110187 160 b.6. 0 -679.9116  668  67   -L60  -.11-                       11.b1ft 61776666 9 .616I 166 f6117  1960. 1970 .ad &IN .0
197ad6.116 .0.6876   9176611-7177   6761m6 -6- I3181661  (p01361  - 1666f0 9.1.. 196 -6C176110.    91631
7-  Z6 89,1116.666.  P.13.L.,163. ad 611696  10.7P-0  960 -00.1                       608              -C01111.06  ad                  -I-pn.. .566  1.6., (.r;                            v
66b...6    I..;  91-          V 117 a   977 8.6                                         90  97   di    6.
76r -p7360 667,16 If 16697         7787     9h6.66    9p7776                          .61.6. 161. 9p.oM6P)    1.9. -I... ad C-[.3  - 7.71.1711t6
-66 PP1717 .  161  W7 "67. 567 -pv171 -      1.C-   4.9166-  b.966.  6.-           61161  761..1 .                 -"16.. -I.. ad  -1..1  16I   91.-I
.11.66006910      .91661 76116.7  8~o.99id.606  6.6    -7.C170 ad ~193 811. 66.. 6-.6.4.1i ft0  .77I .7.6. 11
71.p6.1 6.   .96  f 10 I -7 .66.1     a.1.69 1760.9..       _ 66.6--           7.91O.19165  -60L9.6 66760.06.966  p.- b6d - ZLO-3661 60.A
E11..16.1. 666.h o1 7r 316W  b. -165-6109.I.60 fl 316  19-                   9163t.6160606  916       - 611..61 660111.       W1        t-._
7601.6L p7.10.         -W ..1t. (to .      P...  by611 FADpl . t 7- 4.-                =    t:A:         =     a2                    d-1           5-
I-L 91 616. 7-dp1.  .7 P.&        807. 196.9-5. 1970 ad 197) 461.        16W66 03513I6016
1698(60  1*) 166b 6.1.- .  6..8  - A...  I61.7716.d1                              ..0...   0...I              9669  .6a   14 - .1_160  r7 1.6.
66 -669  1.1 )67--  16 1611476  L. t61. Wg 1166. 960 -06  86.6679. 6.              5 7711. 11-.66  20.77.66. p066. 10 P--66. 7- .676  60 P1763
171.. 8.36 8.oI .  9    I.. 119  - 16163960. 1970 7- 3   81-                        .9  ..61.
LI1 611;16.1970 adl1160 4616                                                        Th.   966-c1 6707.6  616L-I...1.661
9.9606 XI66.111 R.6. J-6 t66.6.) - A6_-I0.6  916.1   080-76                         6611*1.866616067.1.7t71666  1..  951  6.  M01.) -.6.a   .6
17.6  I .,1 566  (.60_ 17_  ,61116    _.Io.6.. a   .79-  *                          .111..1  .89..7 89. p1. ...1.   6690   6.7.61   .7
667 of p..pI. (6C--I. .6b66.     -  160.1)616  M.6.    6006 60-1.1                   1960 1.'
6010      . U. 9.. P766666  66666166. 917.17. ad 16011.7 .11.)                    SM *6   2.116. P1-171  Im-6 1666  L. 6W661    .9  -6-9p, p60 w.611
P16-6.1p.9 16611 7.606616  WP6.61.l-  S. 6097-006  . 76119                           p1-.7-  6607  C9 CM6 c-c7.  k6.- 1.61 9. 4.71.6. f06  16 -6-I
(6.6616 67 .6ad..P  106061  -0  -~ 6666 20D 67  f-.. *-   -V...    6                 I.-It .11  .8j1.-c 9.. 6169.. 610 69 L1g 1.6660b 7..
---b9.   -6   -".1  31y 166 Ch- . b6..f. 6066y6 t66 h.-68                            7-  96    - 7.0.00   601.1.  .1. Mw -  71761) .3176*
a.60 -c 6  1160 W       I61117I611  P6.10  166 4.7  S. 9.1l.61    66.                p
9t91y*. 6167668.
A-60  16 R*16. 01.61  (.t.0.9601.116 - 6,6-1. 666. 7   66
36 -.66 P_PM1 (6606. 16. ad 716) 0666  by 61761  429upma6
ad .0.67by ..i67-        6..l1.t-... - -E .1t  C.716. ad .1.-
.160 g..191.  9.6. 71161 .6. 60 606.6.167 1.7.                                                            3.6.7   7-1769  7 -.1- M7J6 21.l 67-61
7.1..11.. 06 1*... 7160. - 7..96.  1.i868 by  -A. .9 171996y 1609
601a   (-.-7-0      1. i06                prmcft1.    ~   7



ANNEX I
- 27 -                             Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC LNDICATORS
Population (1980)        3.4 million
GNP per Capita (1980): $145
Average
Amount           annual
(million      increase (Z)
USS at cur-    in constant       Share of GDP, in
rent prices)        prices         current market
Indicators                           1980           1978-81        prices (Z), 1980
r         National Accounts
Gross domestic product              490             6.7                  100
Agriculture & forestry            364             n.a.                  74
Industry & construction            35             n.a.                  7
Services                           91             n.a.                 19
Consumption                          514            n.a.                 105
Gross investment                      75            n.a.                  15
Export of goods and NFS               42            n.a.                  9
Import of goods and NFS             141             n.a.                  29
Composition of
merchandise trade (Z)
US$ million              (at current prices)
1978   1979    1980   1981    1978  1979  1980  1981
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise exports        11.8   35.2    30.5   21.2       100   100   100   100
Primary products         12.0   35.2    30.5   21.2       100   100   100   100
Manufactures              -      -        -      -          -     -     -      -
Merchandise Imports        89.7  116.0   130.2  119.7       100   100   100   100
Petroleum products        7.4-   8.8    12.9   12.9       8.1   7.6   9.9  10.8
Other                    82.4  107.2   117.3  106.8    91.9  92.4  90.1  89.2
1978       1979        1980       1981
Prices and Terms of Trade
CDP deflator (Z change per annum)            -          8          90          35
Exchange rate (Kip per US$)                  4          4          10          30
As a Z of GDP
Million  Kip               (at current prices)
1978    1979    1980      1981    1978  1979  1980  1981
Public Finance
Current revenue         105.7   268.0    748.2    989.2    5    11    15    14
Current expenditure    384.0   393.9  1,028.0  1,028.3   19    17    21    15
Deficit                 278.3   125.9    279.8      39.1   14      5     6      1
Capital expenditure    188.5   242.1    748.9    927.5   .0    10    15    13
Foreign financing       431.0   354.5  1,032.7    966.5   22    15    21    14
1978       1979        1980       1981
Other Indicators
Real GDP growth rate (Z)                     2          10          10          5
Oil Imports growth rate (Z)                  0          21          47          0
Electricity export growth rate (Z)           6         221       -13.1         49
Growth rate of money supply (2)             22           18        164          4



ANNE I
- 28 -                            Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL, CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Million USS, in current prices)
Actual                       Plan
1976   1977    1978    1979   1980      1981   1982
Balance of Payments
Merchandise (net)          -41.5  -55.0   -77.9   -80.8   -99.7   -98.5  -73.1
Exports                    6.5    9.0    11.8    35.Z    30.5    21.2   47.8
Imports                   48.0   64.0    89.7   116.0   130.2   119.7  120.9
(of which petroleum
products)               (5.9)  (7.3)   (7.3)   (8.8)  (12.9)  (12.9) (12.0)
Services (net)              -9.2  -18.2   -23.2   -24.5   -19.7   -21.8  -21.1
Receipts                   4.6    4.1     7.9      8.4    11.4    18.5   16.0
Expenditures              13.8   22.3    31.1    32.9    31.1    40.3   37.1
Current account balance   -50.7  -73.2  -101.1  -105.3  -119.4  -120.3  -94.2
Capital and transfers       46.2   68.4   108.7   111.9   108.4   114.8   95.7
(of which commodity
aid3                  (16.8) (18.0)  (35.0)  (32.0)  (38.5)  (21.2)   (.)
Overall balance             -4.5   -4.8     7.6      6.6   -11.0    -5.5   +1.5
Change in reserves
(- = increase)            4.5   +4.8    -7.6    -6.6   +11.0    +5.5   -1.5
Gross reserves (end
year)                     n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    26.1    14.0    13.5
1978        1979        1980         1981
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed
(end of period)                       174.1       214.4        265.9       312.4
To international institutions        21.6         28.5        39.7        47.1
To bilateral donors                 149.0        182.7       223.2     } 262.3
Suppliers- credits                    3.5         3.2          3.0     }
Total debt service payments             3.1          3.3         2.5          4.4
Interest                              1.5          1.4         1.2         2.0
Debt services as Z of exports          26.3          9.4         8.2        20.8
IBRD    IDA 
IDA Lending, February 1983                                                                     1
outstanding and Disbursed                   14.3
Undisbursed                             -   32.7
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed           -   47.0
1:



- 29 -                           ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LAO PDR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                Amounts ($ million)
Credit                                                 less cancellations
Number    Year   Borrower          Purpose           Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
760-LA    1978   Lao PDR           Agriculture        -     8.2        3.5
924-LA    1979   Lao PDR           Agriculture        -    10.4        2.47
1021-LA    1980   Lao PDR           Agriculture        -    13.4       11.4
1197-LA    1982   Lao PDR           Power              -    15.0 /a   14.80
Total                                             -    47.0       32.17
Of which has been repaid                               -     -
Total Now Outstanding                             -    47.0
Amount sold                                            -     -
Total Now Held by Bank and IDA                    -    47.0
Total Undisbursed                                 -    32.17      32.17
/a Credit amount is SDR 13.1 million (equivalent to USS15.0 million at
time of commitment).
B. Statement of IFC Investmentr
None: Lao PDR is not a member of IFC.



ANNEX II
-30-                           Page 2 of 3
C. Status of Projects in Execution
CAs of March 31, 1983)
Cr. No. 760-LA   First Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$8.2 million; Credit of January 5, 1978; Effective Date:
April 3, 1978; Current Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project implementation now proceeding satisfactorily although the
project is two years behind schedule. Implementation of the larger irriga-
tion component which has been considerably behind schedule has now begun to
improve. The pig multiplication and rice intensification components
continue to proceed well. Project completion is expected by December 1985.
Cr. No. 924-LA   Second Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$10.4 million; Credit of June 15, 1979; Effective Date:
October 17, 1979; Current Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Progress on this project has been slow over the past 18 months, but
Govertnent and the Bank have agreed on some modifications in the functions
of the Veune Kham State Farm and the National Seed Farm which should enhance
the project. Installation of the irrigation scheme on the Seed Farm, which
has been delayed for two years is now under construction. Construction work
on the feed grain farm is nearing completion, but the pace of development
has slowed pending resolution of problems on the farm which is limiting the
amount of wet season cropping. New technical experts are being assigned to
these projects under UNDP/FAD-executed projects, which should help improve
the rate of implementation.
Cr. No. 1021-LA Third Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project:
$13.4 millica, Credit of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 30, 1980; Original and Current Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
This project has had a slow start, although satisfactory progress
has been made with the Rice Mill component. Recently there have been
improvements in the pace of implementing the other major component, i.e.
provincial workshop construction and rehabilitation. The third component -
coffee processing, is being held in abeyance pending clarification of the
extent of assistance for coffee which is being provided through aid from
East Germany.



ANNEX II
- 31                            Page 3 of 3
Cr. So. 1197-LA  Nam lNgum Hydroelectric Project:  $15.0 million; Credit of
March 3, 1982; Effective Date:  August 10, 1982; Closing
Date: September 30, 1985.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule. Four major
contracts covering the project were signed in December 1982. These include
*        turbine, benerator, electrical equipment and civil construction, including
hydraulic structures. The contractor for civil construction commenced work
on the contractors camp at site in February 1983.
r,



ANNEX III
32 -                           Page 1
LAO PEOPLE-S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) IDA and IFAD staff visited the LPDR on several occasions
during 1982 to help Government identify the project
(b) Time taken to prepare the project: 6 months
(c) Project prepared by: IDA and IFAD preparation missions
(d) First presented to the Association: August 1982
Ce) Departure of Appraisal Mission: January 1983
(f) Completion of Negotiations: May 1983
(g) Planned Pate of Effectiveness: October 1983
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Cross-effectiveness and cross-default clauses would be included
in the agreements of the respective cofinancing partners
(para. 47).
(b) A Special Account would be opened in a bank acceptable to IDA,
as a condition of effectiveness, and would be operated as a
revolving fund for small purchases under the project (para. 49).
(c) Other Conditions
(i) The three, key long-term experts for the project would be
appointed by March 31, 1984 (para. 42).
(ii) The location and designs for the irrigation works would
be approved by IDA prior to the commencement of works
by November 1 of the year preceding implementation
(para. 41(a));



- 33 -                       ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii)  Disbursements against feed imports would be contingent
on a satisfactory achievement of projected increases in
the utilization of locally produced raw material in the
feed mix. Priority uses of feed mix from the Tha Ngon
Feed Mill, and realistic rates of increase of locally pro-
*                     duced materials in the feed mix were agreed and incorporated
in a side letter to the Credit Agreement (para. 41(d)).
(iv)  Prices of feeds, fertilizers, machinery services for land
preparation and weaner pigs would be established and
maintained at levels which shall enable the agencies res-
ponsible for the provision of such goods and services to
recover the financial costs thereof (para. 51).



I 0k2-'                     do4c                        106                   CU1. A
, 22'\  XC H I N A                                                                25.UAK E; g  
.                                                               L.,=;.r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
,-2 2                         ~                                             twx 2      121
Seae
BURMtc                                                                                               Sau ChinaHI;VG;   IE    A  G   o
Won ~ Songn Khana
,?ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'p Neu,                                             Th w,4p Us b/ >godD
T*J -.O9,D'SUIA
for m ma0U,rwanwar,of 
iN  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,read.'jvsd in. y0j&a'w  t
2  &- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~< (iou ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~mtW& o t WmSr
.wardI gwbneol7owlt1ve
WI flu map d0 ml a,4. an No.
s                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of any tarS-y or &y
EN K~~~~NG  > ~~~VIET NAM      *      (3  *   ot
,~~~~~~~~~~M                          -.1,f
an~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



NA   GWt'a.Keun                  Pak           
a I                                                                -
-I        ~~    BvaENTnng Kha
Chiang Khan
fpne Th  '                                                               x;,,
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
GRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT                                                                                       ,
ELEVATION(Meters-
1,000 and OVER                                                    Savannahket
200 999                                                                                 KengKok,        -@)
0 199                                                                         f                       -
PROPOSED ROADS                                                      ~----' -';)
EXISTING PAVED ROADS                                                                         *    _          '- 
EXISTING GRAVEL OR LATERITE ROADS
  --     ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR BEING UPGRADED
-w-J~--. RtIVEFRS                                                                                           JS0        SARAVAN4 r-
+      AIRPORTS                                                     T H A I L                                               ANNDD6hN /t n
PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-     -    INITERNATInNAL BOUNDARIES                                                     '-_
CpaTomo   2> I       t^U       /
-p  ~  ~      ~      ~      ~        
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ar Kv  S-
5 - --- -                ,                                                                       --                             3   -
4 ~    ~ ~ '                E                                                                                                                             ED EORTCKAPCE         
_                           2/2                              ~'.4                                              it~    -~                         \  CS  .p
4Z                                                                                                           -~~6 
c                                                                                              m~~~~~~~~~~~ 



