The Wox          :i i..§  i
FOR OMCIA        M 1I
Rpot N.. 9857
PROJFCT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC kEPUBTLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1395-LA)
AUGUST 22, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(Kip per US$)
Official                Private
Year                      Official    Commercial  Market       Remittance
1983 (Appraisal)             10          35         140          106
1984                         10          35         250          108
1985                        10           95         400          189
1986                         10          95         410          270
1987                         10          95         380          380
1988                       400          400         400          400
1989                       550          550         550          550
1990 (Completion)          700          700         700          700
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APSP   -     Agricultural Production Support Project
ARDP   -     Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Project
DCA    -     Development Credit Agreement
ERR    -     Economic Rate of Return
IFAD   -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOA    -     Ministry of Agriculture
OPEC   -     Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR    -     Project Completion Report
RMB    -     Regional Mission, Bangkok
SAR    -     Staff Appraisal Report
SPC    -     State Planning Committee
TA     -     Technical Assistance
UADP   -     Upland Agriculture Development Project
UNDP   -     United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR (LAO PDR)
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



you OaCIAL U.S ONLY
TMH WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OUmk al OitorC.wa
Opwauimw Ealktwm
August 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC - Agricultural Production Support Project
(Credit 1395-LA)                           _
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Lao People's Democratic Republic:
Agricultural Production Support Project (Credit 1395-LA)" prepared
by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S ?EMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1395-IA)
Table of Contents
PASO No.
PREFACE         .    ..   ..   .   .   .  .   .   ..  ........ .............. 1
EVALUATION SUMSARY ..... . . . .. . ..ill
PART I
1.   Project Identity.. . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.   Background          . . . . .. .. . . . . . .             ..1
3.   Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . .          2
4.   Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . .          3
5.   Project Implementation . .                                        4 . . . . . . . . .   4
6.    Project Results   7. . . .  .   . . .       . .                  7
7.   Project Sustainabi lity .     ..0...........                      9
8.   Bank Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . * .  .           9
9.    Borrower  Performancrmance     .     ........                  10
10.    Project Relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        11
11.    Consulting Services  . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  . . . .        11
12.    Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . .                    12
PART II
1.   Review by the Borrower .e.r..   * .  .    ................   .   13
P.UT III
1    Related Bank Creditse.t.............                             15
2.   Project Timetable . . ..     .  .  . .                           16
3.   Credit Disbursements         . . .  . . .  . . .  .  .  . .      17
4.   Project Implementation . .  . . .  . .   .   .   .   . .         18
5.   Project Costs and Financing  .. . .  . . . .  . .     .          21
A.  Project Costs     . .  . . .....               .        21
B. Project Financing   . . .  . . .    .    .   . .         22
6.   Project Results      i..............                             22
A. Direct Benefits  .. .. . .                               22
B. Economic Impact         .  . . .  . . .  .  .  . .       23
C. Financial Impact         .  . . .  . . .  .  .  . .      23
D.  Studies    . . . . a  .  .  .  . .   .  .    . .        24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



7.    Status of Cov-nant. . . ... .           . . . . . .. . . .          24
8.    Use of Bank Resources  ...  ..         .. .. ...    .                25
A.  Staff Inputs . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . .           25
B.  C  oat     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  26
C.  Costs           . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .            26
AX 1
Economic Re-Evaluation of Sugar Production and
Processing Component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            27
TABLE I   . . .    . . .           f . . . . .  . . . . .                     30
MAPS I8RD 17123R
IBRD 17124R



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1395-LA)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Agricultural
Production Support Project (APSP) in Laos. for which Credit No. 1395-LA in the
amount of SDR 5.8 million was approved on June 28, 1983. The credit was closed
on December 31, 1989. two and a half years behind schedule.   The final
disbursement was made on March 12, 1990 and an undisbursed balance of
SDR 10,525.19 wva cancelled.
The PCR is based on a draft report by an PAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission that visited Laos in February 1990. It incorporates information
obtained from the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 4543-LA) dated June 7. 1983;
the Development Credit Agreement dated January 10, 1984; the Bank's Supervision
Reports and project files; field visits to selected project sites; dlscussions
with the borrower's project staff; and interviews with UNDP, FAO, IPAD and World
Bank staff associated with the project.
The Asia Regional Office wishes to express its appreciation to the
officials of the Borrower for their valuable assistance to the PCR mission.



- lii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credlt 1395-LA)
gvaluation Sumarv
Obiectives
1.        The prime objective of the project was to increase agricultural
production-particularly that of rice, animal feed and sugar--and thereby to
reduce imports. This was to be achieved by: (i) expansion of irrigated area by
some 3.600 4a (17 small-scale schemes) mainly for rice; increased use of farm
inpute for rice, feel crops and sugarcane; and development of livestock feed and
3ugar processing facilities; (ii) strengthening of agricultural support
infrastructure including warehousing and district road maintenance; and (iii)
improvement of institutional capacity and operating procedures for procurement,
inventory control, planning, budgeting and accounting. The project was based on
a sector lending approach, with financing of a three-year time slice of the
Government's priority agricultural development program by IDA, IFAD, OPEC and
UNDP on a parallel basis.
Imolementation Exoerience
2.        Actual implementation took almost six years.  The IDA Credit was
closed on December 31, 1989, two and a half years behind schedule, and was almost
fully disbursed (SDR 5.8 million or US$7.15 million). The delay was caused
mainly by the Government's protrected decision-making processes and a very weak
institutional base. This was further aggravated by a conceptual change in the
irrigation component and problems encountered in the recruitment and quality of
technical assistance.
3.        At appraisal, irrigation construction, for which adequate feasibility
studies had not been done, was  limited to Vientiane province.   During
implementation, the Government wished to inclade four other provinces, and this
change delayed implementation by more than two years.  The weak management
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which was diluted further during
the project period because of decentralization of responsibilities to the
provinces, was another factor. By early 1990, construction work was completed
on some 11 schemes with a total target area of 5.255 ha and 4,300 ha for the wet
and dry seasons, respectively, and about 900 ha and 820 ha had been added to the
wet and dry season irrigated areas, respectively.  However, the quality of
irrigation works in some schemes is poor and tertiary network construction by
farmers has not happened.



- iv -
4.        The rice intensification program was delayed since the Government
policy until 1985 was to discourage the use of chemical fertilizers. About 2.100
and 1.700 tons of fertilizers (about 25 percent lower than the appraisal target)
along with other inputs and equipment were imported under the project in 19M8 and
1989, respectively.  Tlese were distributed to farmers without an effective
extension service and systematic monitoring and evaluation.  The upland crop
program for maize was very successful, with a doubling of area from 1,550 ha in
1967 to 3.050 ha in 1989 (compared to the appraisal target of 1,600 ha). and for
soyabeans and leucaena, but disappointing for cassava due to low demand from the
country's only feedmill (Tha Ngone) and insufficient drying facilities. For
sugarcane, the planted area so far (about 145 ha) is low, mainly because the
construction of the sugar mill was delayed by about three years. The delay was
initially due to the Government's doubts about the component and later mainly due
to institutional coordination problems and a lengthy process of preparation of
technical specifications and bid documents. The plant was finally installed in
1990 with an annual capacity of 2,000 tons (1,000 tons at appraisal) of
plantation white sugar and started operation in 1991.
5.        For technical assistance  (TA). the project was to employ seven
specialists.   Only two  (warehouse management and sugarcane experts) were
recruited and the performance of the former was not regarded satisfactory by all
concerned. The Government did not consider expatriate skills in other areas
necessary and preferred to train local people.
Results
6.        Overall, the -:oject was marginally satisfactory. Results of five of
the six physical components, accounting for about 70 percent of project
investments, were mixed; for the sixth, viz, irrigation development, a judgement
on the results is premature since the schemes were in various stages of
development at project completion. The institutional impact of the project was
negligible.
7.        The economic rate of return (ERR) for the sugar processing componen.
is about 10 percent.  It is lower than at appraisal (19 percent) principally
because economic prices are lower than at appraisal. For the other compo-nents,
available data is not sufficient for a detaeled economic reevaluation. However,
the agricultural roads component (rehabilita.ion/construction and maintenance)
is considered to have provided a significant stimulus to development in the areas
served. Warehouses were satisfactorily constructed and utilized. The upland
crop and rice intensification programs are likely to have a benefit/cost ratio
greater than 1.0 (1.6 and 1.9, respectively, at appraisal), though there were
significant problems with the latter. Essential feed ingredients were imported
for the Tha Ngone feedmill and its capability strengthened with the addition of
soyabean, ipil-ipil and corn cob processing facilities and cassava drying slabs,
but its major problem in 1989 and 1990 was competition from the imported Thai
feed, which had captured about 50 percent of the market (about 6,000 tons) as it
was perceived by the end users to be of higher quality.



-v -
Sust-lain4b1ts
8.        Project sustainibility at this stage is uncertain. It can be assured
if certain actions ar- undertaken. For the irrigation component, it is essential
that the technical and economic viability of each scheme be assessed before
additional investments are undertaken. Greater farmer involvement in tertiary
canal construction and gradual takeover of scheme operation, which the new
Government policy supports, are also necessary. For the sugar mill, an adequate
supply of cane is critical. This will largely depend on prices offered for cane.
which in turn, will depend on officient and cost-effective management and success
in obtaining working capital requirements. For the rural roads component, an
adequate recurrent budget should continue to be provided to the project--
established maintenance units. To remain profitable, the Tha Ngone feedmill has
to make a strong marketing effort to improve or at least hold its share in the
high-value rations market while, at the same time, expanding its sales of low-
cost rations.
Findings and Lessons Learned
-    While changes in macro policies towards liberalization and market
orientation are potentially beneficial in the long-term, the short-
term impact on indIvidual enterprises can be adverse in the absence
of plans for their survival in the adjustment phase (PCR, para. 2.3).
-    fHurried project processing without adequate preparation (such as for
the irrigation component) is likely to create serious problems during
project implementation (PCR. paras. 4.2, 5.4 and 5.5).
-    The  implementation  period  proposed  should  be  longer,   or.
alternatiwely, an appropriately modest project scale and range of
components should be adopted, in keeping with the implementation
capacity of the borrower; in particular, the concept of time-slice
funding is inappropriate when institutional problems are severe (PCR,
paras. 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 and 8.1).
-    The contracting of technical assistance services, if these have been
identifiid as critica_ to projeat success, should be ensured (PCR,
paras. 5.10 and 11.1).
-    Intensive  supervision is necessary at all stages, when country
conditions are as difficult as ini Laos, and supervision from fiold
offices is beneficial as it facilitates closer and more frequent
contact with the implementing agencies (PCR, para. 8.2).
-    Decentralization, if not accompanied by appropriate support measures,
can create considerable dislocation and uncertainty (PCR, para. 9.3).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1395-LAb
PART I
1.   Proiect Identity
Project lame        s      Agricultural Production Support Project
Credit No.          s       1395-LA
RVP Unit            s       Asia Region
Country             s       Laos
Sector              I      Agriculture
Subsectore          s       Irrigation. Agri. Support Services & Agro-industry
2.   BDcktr_ound
2.1       At the time of project appraisal in 1983, the Government's primary
objective for the agricultural sector was to complete the process of securing
food self-sufficiency, which had been the focus of development policy since the
establishment of the Republic in 1975. In order to attain this objective, the
Government  str^tegy  included four major components:   (i) organization of
production activities on a cooperative basis; (ii) expansion of irrigated rice
land; (iii) development of roads and agricultural support services; and
(iv) provision of incentives for production.
2.2       The Agricultural Production Support Project (APSP) vas IDA's fourth
agricultural lending operation in Laos, following the First, Second and Third
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Development Projects (ARDP I. II and III). These
agricultural rehabilitation projects were intended to support the Government's
food self-sufficiency objectives and formed an important part of the national
rural development effort.   ARDP I (Cr.760-LA), implemented during 1978-86,
supported  irrigation  development  for  rice  production  as  well  as  pig
ultiplication.  ARDP II (Cr.924-LA) during 1979-87 was intended to support the
development  of  improved  rice  seed and  foodgrain production.   ARDP  III
(Cr.1021-LA) during 1980-89 concentrated on reducing post-harvest losses by
providing improved rice milling, storage and transport, and coffee processing.
The AlPSP, the subject of this report, was to expand the irrigation development
program implemented under the ARDP I and also to support other priority
agricultural development activities in which the Government was already involved.
2.3       Implementation of all these projects was necessarily carried out along
lines consistent with the Government's policy of transforming the economy along
socialist lines, through centralization of planning and management of all
significant economic activities. In 1985/86, however, sweeping economic reforms
were brought  in.   The Government introduced the New System of Economic
Management, which is aimed at creating a market economy and dismantling
centralized planning and controls.  Key institutional reforms included the



- 2-
decentralization of authority to give financial and managerial autonomy to
parastatals and to provincial agencies, and the elimination of central agencies'
production responsibilities. Subsequently, the collectivization of farm holdings
was a*andoned in 1988. Although these reforms are expected to promote efficient
growth of the Lao PDR economy in the long run, they have generated considerable
uncertainty and their short-term impact on the enterprisoe supported or created
under the above projects has been adverse in the absence of a plan for their
survival in the transition phase. The adverse impact has been principally on tho
financial side as these enterprises, including the sugar mill and feedmill
supported under the APSP. are no longer financed through the Government budget
and are also unable or unwilling to borrcw for their investment and working
capital requirements from the emerging commercial banking system due to the
extremely high bank interest rates (35 to 40 percent) and the banks having
limited resources. Managerial problems and a lack of direction have also emerged
as the supervision and control of these enterprises by the Government has
weakened, technical assistance has been discontinued after completion of the
above projects, and the future ownership and management structure remain
uncertain. Competition from the private sector (imported Thai feedstuff in the
case of the feedmill supported under the APSP) is another unforeseen phenomenon
which the state-owned enterprises are having difficulty facing. Even for the
Government agencies, the decentralization of responsibilities to the provinces
has created considerable dislocation (see further para. 9.3).
3.    Pr<1ect Objectives and Descrigtion
3.1       The prime objective of the project was to increase agricultural
production-particularly that of rice, animal feed and sugar--and thereby to
reduce imports.  This was to be achieved by: (a) expansion of agricultural
production capacity; (b) strengthening of the existing agricultural support
infrastructure; and (c) improvement in institutional capacities and operating
procedures for procurement, inventory control, planning, budgeting, accounting
a-d project management.
3.2       As appraised, the project was to finance:
(a) development of small-scale pump and gravity-fed irrigation schemes
(100 to 300 ha each) over some 3,600 ha, and repair and maintenance
of some 1,200 existing small pumps in Vientiane, Khammouane,
Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak provinces;
(b) agricultural inputs and equipment for: (i) the ongoing rice
intensification program, and (ii) upland crops including feed crops
and sugarcane;
(c) additional material and equipment to support the development of
research and extension under the Integrated Agricultural Development
Project funded by UNDP;
(d) development of three pilot units for the improved maintenance of
agricultural feeder roads in Vientiane province;



-3-
(e)  provision of essential imported fend ingredients and equipment for the
Tha Ngone feedmill, in order to support pig and poultry breed
improvement and multiplication;
(f) construction of a small sugar mill with an annual output capacity of
1,000 tons of plantation white sugart
(g)  construction of eight new warehouses  (800 to 1,250 sq. m.) and
rehabilitation of several large existing warehouses, for storage of
agricultural inputs, spare parts and construction materials;
(h) technical assistance for: (a) budget analysis and work programing;
(b) warehouse management; (c) sugar production and resooarch;
(d) standardization of equipment and supply; (e) computer programing
for warehouse operation and inventory control; (f) procurement; and
(g) auditing and accounting; and
(i) study tours and fellowships to develop expertise in agricultural
research and production, and in administration.
3.3       The iroject, phased over a three-year period, was estimated to cost
US$24.8 million. The foreign exchange component, estimated at US$17.6 million,
was to be cofinanced by IDA, IFAD, OPEC and UNDP on a parallel basis (see Part
_II, Section 5. Project Costs and Financing). IDA funds were to be disbursed
against the three subprojects covering livestock feed processing, sugarcane
production and processing, and warehousing and inventory support.
4.    Project Desian and Organization
4.1       The concept of providing support for a three-year time slice of the
Government's priority agricultural development programs was developed during
project preparation by IDA in 1982. The project, through TA support, was intended
to alleviate institutional, financial and technical constraints, wV.ich had
seriously delayed the pace of implementation achieved by earlier projects
(ARDP I, II & III). The concept was generally shared and understood by both the
Bank and the Government. It appears, however, that the scope and scale of the
project (6 discrete components in 5 different provinces) were too wide, given the
limited proposed project period, coordination problems in parallel financing from
several sources, and the Government's weak implementing capacity.
4.2       The level of project preparation for individual compopents, judging
from working papers available in the files, was generally sufficient except for
the irrigation component, which did not meet the Bank's normal appraisal
requirements (i.e. adequate feasibility study). The Bank proceeded with project
processing by including appropriate requirements in the Development Credit
Agreement  (DCA).   The appraisal team adopted a sector lending approach,
particularly for appraising the irrigation component, on the assumption that the
Irrigation Department was capable of satisfying the DCA requirements (see para.
5.4).  Project processing was very much hurried:  the elapsed time between
appraisal and Board approval was only four months. The reason for this was the



- 4-
Government's desire to utilize FY83 IDA and IFAD funds earmarked for Laos.
However, there was a long interval between approval and credit signature (6k
months) and between signature and credit effectiveness (8 months), since the
Government decided to wait for the approval of the project by IFAD and OPEC Fund
before signing the credit agreement and there were delays in meeting the
conditions of effectiveness, particularly those relating to the establishment of
the Special Account and execution and delivery of the two UNDP Project Documents
associated with the project.
4.3       On the question of project organization and management, the roles and
responsibilities of the implementing agencies were relatively well defined
compared with the preceding projects (ARDP I, II & III).   There were doubta
expressed in the Bank regarding the capacity of the State Planning Committee
(SPC) as a central coordinating agency for the project.   However, the SPC
fulfilled this role during project implementation until it was absorbed by the
Ministry of Finance in 1988.
4.4       The project included measures to improve procurement by designating
the Ministry of Materials Supply as the central agency responsible and providing
it with TA support. Unfortunately, this arrangement did not materialize, due to
the dissolution of the concerned Ministry and non-recruitment of the TA
specialists. Changes in project implementation responsibility and the dissolu-
tion of SPC occurred towards the end of the project period.   Further, the
decentralization of responsibilities to the provinces weakened central agencies
(see para. 9.3).
5.    Project Imalementation
5.1       Significant   variances   between   planned   and   actual   project
implementation occurred with respect to:   (i) the implementation period;
(ii) irrigation development component; (iii) rice intensification program; (iv)
upland crop program; (v) sugar mill component; (vi) agricultural road
maintenance; and (vii) technical assistance.
5.2       Implementation Period.  Compared with a planned three-year period.
actual implementation took almost six years. At project completion, most of the
irrigation schemes were essentially incomplete.  The project-installed sugar
factory was not yet in operation and still awaiting full commissioning. The
implementation delay was anticipated by the first full supervision mission in
September 1984 which reported: "It is clear that due to the difficult operating
conditions in Lao PDR. this project cannot be completed by the current completion
date of December 31. 1986...  The appraisal estimate of a 3-year implementation
period was not realistic."
5.3       As under the preceding projects, ARDP I. II and III. the delay was
caused mainly by Government indecision (reluctance of officials to take decisions
and a generally protracted decision-making process) and a very weak institutional
base (shortage of trained manpower). This was fuiher aggravated by a conceptual
change in the irrigation component (see para. 5.4) and problems encountered in
the recru_tment and quality of TA (see paras. 5.10 and 11.1).



5.4       Irrigation Development.  This componen4 was considerably delayed and
deviated from the concept at appraisal. At appraisal the standard of preparation
of the irrigation component fell short of the Bank'c normal appraisal requirement
(para 4.2). This deficiency was addressed by introducing a condition that the
Government would furnish to the Bank, by November 1 each year. plans and designs
detailing irrigation works and their location for the coming year so that the
Bank could give its approval prior to construction. However, this flexibility
had the unintended effect of causing a deviation from the appraisal concept and
delays in project implementation. At appraisal, irrigation construction (17
schemes) and pump repair were limited to schemes in Vientiane province while the
four other provinces were to be provided only with instruments and drawing office
equipment for the survey and design offices of the Irrigation Departments to
enhance their capability to undertake future projects. During implementation,
the Government wished to broaden the project to include construction of schemes
in the other four provinces. The effect of this change was to delay project
implementation by more than two years due to the time needed for decisions on the
schemes to be financed, for finalizing a new equipment list and tenders for
equipment, and for consulting provinces about inclusion of schemes in the project
and budgeting of local funds needed for construction.   An important factor
responsible for the delay in implementation of the irrigation component was the
weak management capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), which was diluted
further during the project period because of decentralization of responsibilities
to the provinces (see para. 9.3).
5.5       There was no disbursement for this component in 1985 and 1986, that
is, for two years after credit effectiveness.   Construction was inevitably
delayed by the late arrival of equipment. By early 1990, major construction work
was completed on some 11 irrigation schemes with a total target area of 5.255 ha
for the wet season and 4,300 ha for the dry season (see Part III, Section 4.
Project Implementation).   However, the quality of irrigation works in some
schemes is unsatisfactory. Based on available information, about 900 ha had been
added to the wet season irrigated areas and about 820 ha to the dry season areas
by end 1989 through actions financed under the project.  If the distribution
systems from the presently completed main and secondary canals to the farms were
completed, these areas would be increased several fold. At appraisal it was
envisaged that farmers would contribute significantly to tertiary network
construction.   This has not happened, due in part to the lack of effective
agricultural  extension at farm  level.   The  subcomponent  for repair and
maintenance of some 1,200 existing small irrigation pumps was not implemented
since the Government decided to leave pump repair to private workshops.
5.6       The rice intensification psorram provided for further strengthening
of farm inputs and equipment distribution services of the Department of
Agriculture (DOA) in continuation of the support previously included under
ARDP I, II and III. As under ARDP III, implementation was delayed. The main
reasons for this were: (i) the use of chemical fertilizers was discouraged by DOA
as, until 1985, national policy was to promote organic fertilizers; and
(ii) there were no effective agricultural support services to undertake the



-6-
program. L About 2,100 and 1,700 tons of fertilizers along with other inputs
and equipment were imported under the project in 1988 and 1989. respectively.
This was lower than the appraisal target of 3,678 tons by 1986 since the
Government wanted to import more farm equipment than inputs and, in any case, the
appraisal figure included an unspecified tonnage (presumably about 1,000 tons)
to be imported through bilateral sourcees.    The hectarage covered by the
inputs and equipment imported under the project is not known since these were
distributed to farmers without systematic monitoring and evaluation.  It was
anticipated under the project that the MOA would recover the cost of inputs from
the farmers in kind, but this was never done because of an inadequate
administrative capacity to do so.
5.7       The upland crop nrotram initially faced difficulties in obtaining
external funding for procurement of farm inputs because no such provision had
been made due to an oversight. In 1988, following the Government's request, the
OPEC Loan was amended so as to provide financial support for the implementation
of the program. Thereafter, as the December 1988 supervision mission reported,
there was "dramatic" and "remarkable" progress in the upland crop program.
However, this was confined to maize for which the area increased from 1,550 ha
in 1987 to 2,700 ha in 1988 and 3,050 ha in 1989 (compared to the appraisal
target of 1,600 ha for 1986). The c64sava program (37 ha) fell far short of the
appraisal target (900 ha) due to low demand from the country's only feedmill (Tha
Ngone) and insufficient drying facilities. Sugarcane planted area so far (about
145 ha) is low, mainly because the construction of the project sugar mill was
delayed, but is expected to pick up   over the next two years to meet the
requirements of the mill (about 20,000 tons of cane or about 500 ha). It should
be noted that the IDA supervision missions discouraged the establishment of sugar
mill plantation and instead favored cane production by the farmers. Though not
included at appraisal, soyabean was later financed under the project and reached
500 ha by end 1989. The introduction of leucaena (18 ha) was also successful.
5.8       The sugar mill comDonent was initially delayed due to the Government's
indecision on the need for the component, as designed, and on the establishment
of a clear institutional framework for sugarcane production and contruction of
the sugar mill.   Eventually,  both tasks were assigned to the Vientiane
Municipality.   Further delays occurred due to a controversy regarding the
desirability of plantation white sugar vs. refined sugar and a lengthy process
of preparation of mill technical specifications and bid documents, completed only
in mid-1987   through consultant services which had not been envisaged at
appraisal. The plant finally installed in 1990 after a three-year delay had an
annual capacity of 2,000 tons of plantation white sugar, instead of 1,000 tons
1/   A mid-term evaluation team for the UNDP-Integrated Agricultural Development Project
comented in 1987: "Farmers were not deriving any benefit from the project (DOA's rice
intensification program) due to the virtual absence of extension activities and support in
the project. There was no mechanism for technology transfers."
2/   The staff appraisal report (SAR) and Project File only indicate the amount of IFAD loan for
the component. Neither the quantity nor the unit cost of fertilizers to be imported nor
the area to be covered under the loan are indicated.



-7-
envisaged at appraisal. The bigger plant, though still a mini sugar mill, was
considered to bo more economic. The mill had a trial run in 1990 and comuercial
production started in 1991 under a management agreement concluded by the
Governmont (after credit closing) with the Australian company which installed the
plant. The need for continued expatriate management hod not beon foreseen at
appraieal.  The agreed total cost (US$1.0 million over 5 years) is rather high
for a mini sugar mill and has important implications for the mill's financial and
economic viability (see paro. 6.2).
5.9       The  aarigultural  roads maintenance program  changed  from  annual
maintenance to * high.r standard of maintenanco, including completo reconstruc-
tion or new construction works in some areas. The actual figure of 289 km at
project completion is, therefore, not comparable with the appraisal target of
480 km. The appraisal mission had not been able to visit the project areas in
Vientiane province because of lack of time and severe logistical constraints.
The mission was given to understand that the scale of work was similar to that
observable in Vientiane Municipality. However, subsequent missions observed the
more difficult conditions in the foothills of the Province and the need for
bridging   the   many   streams   in   that   area.           The   significant
construction/rehabilitation work undertaken (necessary prior to the adoption of
regular maintenance envisaged by the project) was the reason for the "maintained"
road length falling short of the appraisal target.
5.10      The technical assistance envisaged under the project (para. 3.2 (h))
was expected to have a very important bearing on successful implementation and
development of Government institutional capacity and operating procedures. The
project was to employ seven consultant specialists for this purpose (see Part
II.  Section 4. Project Implementation).   Of these. only two  (warehouse
management specialist and sugarcane expert) were actually recruited through FAO
and the others were not hired, principally because expatriate skills in some
aress, e.g. inventory control, standardization, and budget/programing, were not
considered necessary by the Government during project Implementation.   The
Government also pointed out the difficulty in finding suitable counterparts for
TA specialists, budgetary constraints on local expenditure, and its preference
to spend scarce foreign currency on training local people rather than bring in
expensive foreign experts (also see para. 11.1). The funds for TA under the IPAD
grant were, therefore, reallocated to training of local personnel.
6.    Project Results
6.1       Overall, the project was marginally satisfactory.  Results of five of
the six physical components, accounting for about 70 percent of project
investments, were mixed; for the sixth, viz. irrigation development, a judgement
on the results is extremely difficult at this stage since the schemes were in
various stages of development at project completion (para. 5.5), and data on
actual costs for each scheme and cost and time required for additional works to
complete the schemes are not available, though the data provided by the HOA on
areas developed (see Part IIX, Section 4, Project Implementation) and paddy
yields in some schemes (3 to 3.5 tons/ha) are encouraging. The institutional
impact of the project was negligible, with only partial implementation of the TA



component (par**. 5.10 and 9.2) and froquent chante. in responsibilities of the
project implementing agencies (paras. 4.4 and 9.3).
6.2       Because of data constrainto, an ex-post re-evaluation of the economic
impact of tho project at completion was possible only for the sugar production
and processing component. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the component
is about 10 percent, despite the fairly high expatriate management costs (para.
5.8). If these costs are reduced to US$120,000 per annum over 1991-95, the ERR
improve. to about 11 percent. If t:hesa costs were zero (a at appraisal), the
ERR would be about 12 percent. Details of ERR calculations are at Annex 1. The
ERR at completion is lower than at appraisal (19 percont) principally because the
estimated economic price of US$450 per ton of sugar is much lower than the
appraisal projection of US$590/ton in 1989 constant dollars (US$432/ton in 1983
constant dollars).
6.3       While adequate data for other components is not available to allow a
detailed economic re-evaluation, some qualitative and quantitative judgements are
poosible. The agricultural roads maintenance component (ERR not calculated at
appraisal) is considered to have provided a significant stimulus to development
in the areas opened up by rehabilitation of the access roads. Warehouses (ERR
not calculated at appraisal) were satisfactorily constructed and, as reported by
the April 1988 supervision mission, vehicles and equipment for the warehousing
component were in full use, transporting about 5.000 tons of cement and steel and
30,000 tons of fuel per year. A saving in cost of over 20 percent had been
achieved compared with previous handling methods. The upland crop program was
quite successful, except for the small cassava subcomponent (para. 5.7), and the
benefit/cost ratio is likely to be greater than 1.0 (1.6 at appraisal). The rice
intensification program, despite its problems (para. 5.6), is also likely to have
a B/C ratio greater than 1.0 (1.9 at appraisal), given the current input/output
prices and if the paddy yields are actually 3 to 3.5 tons/ha, as roughly
estimated by the provincial agricultural offices.
6.4       A judgement on the Tha Ngone feedmill component is more difficult.
As envisaged at appraisal, essential feed ingredients were imported and the
feedmill's capability was strengthened with the addition of soyabean, ipl.l-ipil
and corn cob processing facilities and cassava drying slabs. These facilities
were expected by the December 1988 supervision mission to have a very significant
impact on feed quality improvement, cost reduction through virtual elimination
of imported raw materials and increased local production of these materials.
These expectations have so far been only partially met.  Local production,
particularly of maize, has increased and feed cost is somewhat reduced due to
lower imports of raw materials.  However, the biggest problem faced by the
feedmill in 1989 and 1990 was competition from the imported Thai feed, which had
captured about 50 percent of the market as it was perceived by the end-users to
be of higher quality. Tha Ngone's feed production declined to about 3.200 tons
in 1989 (likely to be less than 3.000 tons in 1990) from a high of 6,o00 tons in
1982. The feedmill is taking steps to overcome the quality problem, real or
perceived.  It is also switching from higher-priced feed rations to low-cost
rations (maize meal and cassava meal), which are better suited to Laotian
conditions. The mill was barely profitable in 1989 (a pre-tax profit of K 16.7



9 -
million on tot-l sales of R 489.6 million) and that also because of heavily
subsidird intorest charges on working capital, mostly borrowed from the
Government earlier.   To remain profitable, the mill has to make a strong
marketing effort to improve or at least hold its share in the high-value rations
market while, at the same time, expanding its sales of low cost rations. For the
oment, the results of this project component are judged to be on the borderline
of success and failure.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1       Project sustainability at this stage is uncert-in. It can be assured
if cortain actions are undertaken. The irrigation schemes supported under the
project are mostly incomplete and the availability of funds to complete them
remains uncertain, in view of the current tight financial situation of the
Government and its new policy of transferring irrigation schemes to farmers. It
is essential that the viability (technical as well as economic) of each schome
be assessed before additional investments are undertaken.   Greater farmer
involvement in tertiary canal construction and gradual takeover of scheme
operation are also necessary to improve the prospects of sustainability of the
irrigation component.
7.2       For the sugar mill, an adequate supply of sugarcane is critical. This
will largely depend on the sugarcane prices which the mill can offer to cane
growers, which, in turn, will depend on efficient and cost-effective management
and success in obtaining working capital requirements.
7.3       Rural roads in Vientiane province constructed/rehabilitated under the
project are generally in satisfactory condition, having received adequate
maintenance from the project-established units. In order to maintain the present
level of activities, it is essential that an adequate recurrent budget continue
to be provided to the maintenance units. The Tha Ngone feedmill has to make a
strong marketing effort in order to remain profitable (para. 6.4). The rice
intensification and upland crop programs are also sustainable, given fertilizer
availability and continued research/extension support.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1       The appraisal mission was careful in designing the project management
framework, learning from experience with ARDP I, II and III. However, it did not
adhere to the Bank's normal appraisal requirement for the irrigation component
(see paras. 4.2 and 5.4) and it was also unduly optimistic in phasing the project
period over only three years (see paras. 4.1 and 5.2). While the Bank can be
criticized for the extensive nature of the irrigation component and the multi-
component nature of the project, it should be realized that the Government was
faced with demands for assistance from provinces, which had previously benefitted
very little from IDA funding, and a smaller project was, therefore, not the
preferred alternative.



- 10 -
8.2       The Bank superviaion muissions faced many difficulties throughout
the project period,/ some of which stemied from the non-recruitment and
variable quality of TA (ee para 5.10).  Moreover, while the project was
intensively supervised in the sarly years from the Bangkok Regional Mission
(RMB), with visits increasing to seven in 1986, the frequency declined to two
missions a year after mid-1987, when the supervision responsibility shifted from
RMB to Washington as a result of the Bank's reorganization.   This had
particularly adverse consequences for the Irrigation, rice intensification, and
feedmill components, which needed intensive supervision.  Under the circum-
stances. the Bank staff performed well, concentrating on procurement and getting
all equipment in place before credit closing.  However, from their base in
Bangkok and later Washington. they were powerless to overcome the day-to-day
implementation problems. Frequent supervision cannot compensate for inadequate
project management.
8.3       From the Bank's point of view, the lessons which can be learned are
the following:
(a) hurried project processing (para. 4.2) without adequate preparation
(such as for the irrigation component) is likely to create serious
problems during project implementation;
(b) the implementation period proposed should be longer, or alternatively.
an appropriately modest project scale and range of components should
be adopted, in keeping with the implementation capacity of the
borrower; in particular, the concept of time-slice funding is
inappropriate when institutional problems are severe;
(c) the contracting of technical assistance services, if these have been
identified as critical to the overall success of the project, should
be ensured; and
(d) intensive supervision is necessary at all stages, when country
conditions are as difficult as in Laos.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1       The performance of the borrower in the early phases of the project,
prior to implementation, is not well-documented in the files. The limited record
indicates that the preparation report was produced by the Bank with very little
input from the Government but that no major disagreements emerged at negotiation.
9.2       There  were,  however,  considerable  disagreements,  particularly
regarding the irrigation, sugar mill and TA components, during project imple-
mentation. Added to these were weaknesses in project management and inadequate
3/   Tho Bank supervision missions usually covered three to four projects (ARDP I, 11, III and
APSP), and these projects contained more than 15 discrete components spread over five
provices. ARDP II and III were particularly trouble-prone, occupyizg most of the
supervision effort.



- 11 -
coordination  among  Implementing  agencies.    The  main  problems  affecting
implementation were: (i) time-consuming decision-making processes in the
Goverrnent; (ii) frequent changes in the responsibilities of the project
implementing agencies- and (iii) shortage of trained manpower. Only part of the
TA component was implemented (para. 5.10). It seems that there hao been almost
no improvement in the Government system of accounting and recording project
impl m ntation since the inception of ARDP I (1978).
9.3       A significant problem during project implementation was posed by the
changing policy environment, particularly the decentralization of responsi-
bilities to the provinces, which diluted further the already weak management
capacity of the MNA. During decentralization, the central institutions were
wound down while responsibilities were devolved to the provinces without
providing them with the capability in terms of trained staff and other support
measures required. There was thus a hiatus. The Irrigation Department of the
MOA. as much or more than any other Department, suffered from this lack of
stability and collapse of management support.  Parallel weaknesses in other
project components (except, perhaps, the rural road maintenance component under
the management of the much stronger Ministry of Transport) can also be
attributed, in part, to this period of uncertainty. While inadequate management
capability was recognized at appraisal and attempts were made to compensate
through the TA component and location of project management within the SPC, the
expectation at that time was that existing structures and institutions could be
strengthened, not that the dissolution of the whole system was imminent. The
recent IDA-assisted Upland Agriculture Development Project (Cr. 2079-LA) is
geared much more to development of basic infrastructure for agriculture at the
provincial level in recognition of the developments described above.
9.4       From the borrower's point of view, an important lesson (apart from the
lessons in para. 8.3) is that it is necessary to study the impact of major policy
changes at the macro level on the operation of individual enterprises and to
formulate plans for their survival in the adjustment phase (para. 2.3). Another
lesson i. that decentralization, if not accompanied by appropriate support
measures, can create considerable dislocation and uncertainty (para. 9.3).
10.   Project Relationshi,
10.1      The Bank-borrower relationship was generally  satisfactory.   The
frequent visits by the RMB staff (para. 8.2) particularly facilitated better
understanding and closer coordination. Relationship of the Bank and the borrower
with other relevant agencies including IFAD. UNDP. OPEC and FAO. were also
generally satisfactory.
11. Consulting Services
11.1      There were problems in recruiting TA experts of an appropriate caliber
because many top specialists were reluctant to work in Laos. The performance of
the warehouse management specialist (para. 5. 10) was not considered satisfactory
by all concerned. However, the sugarcane specialist performed well and did some
useful work in sugarcane breeding.



- 12 -
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1      The description of project components given in the SAR was relatively
poor, particularly with regard to physical targets. implementation schedules and
ost estimates for each component, as compared with the SARs for ARDP I. II and
III.  Some of the project conditions were not realistic for the borrower to
fulfil, particularly thoas relating to project accounting and auditing, because
of a very low institutional capacity.
12.2      The supervision reports and the relevant project documents available
at the Bonk contained generally adequate information for preparation of the PCR.
However, some data such as actual costs of components and key indicators required
to complete Part III tables, particularly those relating to financial and
economic analysis, were not properly and consistently recorded in the supervision
reports and were also not available in the field.  Development of adequate
project data bases requires special emphasis in the ongoing and future
agricultural projects in Laos.



- 13 -
PART II
Parts I and III of the PCR were submitted to the Government.  No
coents have been received.



- 15 -
PART III
1. Related Bank Credits
Year of
Credit Title                   Purpose          approval   Statue           Co mentso
1.    The Flirst Agric.     To caset                  Dec 77       Closed       PCR issued
Rehab.& Develop-      Government's offort                   Sep 85        may 88
ment Project          to achieve self-
(Cr. 760-IA)          sufficiency In food
production./a
2.    The Second            Same as above /b          June 79      Closed       PCR isued
Agric. Rehab.                                               Dec 86        Oct 89
Development
Pr_Ject (Cr.
924-LA)
3.    The Third Agric.      Sm  aas above /c          May 80       Closed       PCR under
Rehabilitation &                                            June 88       preparation
Development
Project
(Cr. 1021-La)
/a    Cr. 760-LA supported mall-scale irrigation development, pig unltiplication and rice
intensification.
/b    Cr. 924-LA supported improved rice seed and foodgrain production.
/a    Cr. 1021-LA supported improved rice milling, coffee development, workshop development and
rice intensification.



- 16 -
2. Pproect Timtable
Date                    Date                   Date
Ite"                                planned                  revised               actual
Identification                         n.a.                   nUa.                   1982
Preparation                            na.                     na.                   1982
Appraisal                              n.a.                    na.              February 1983
b gotiations                         May 1983                   -                May 14, 1983
Board Approwal                       June 1983                  -               June 28. 1983
Credit Stgn ture                   January 1984                 -              January 10. 1984
Credit  ffectivensses               March 1984           September 1984         Sept. 18. 1984
Credit Closing                     June 30. 1987               n.a.           December 31. 1989
Project Completion                 Dec 31, 1986           May 31. 1989            March 1990
Catments
Docunents related to project identification and preparation are not available in the
Bank's project files. Issues raised at appraisal (Issues Paper and Decision Memorandum) includes
(a)   Whether the Bank should act as executing agency for IFAD-financed technical
assistance as requested by IFAD (a significant departure from its usual role as
cooperating institution);
(b)   Role and capacity of the State Plannlag Committee designated to be responsible for
overall execution of the project, to be further discussed prior to negotiations;
(c)   Tight project processing scheduleg
(d)   Nead to specify the geographical location in vhich the various project items vould be
utiUwed.



-17 -
3. Crodit DiaburseMUSS
Cuulativ. gttlmted and Actual Dlaburseunts
FY84     FY85     Fn86       FY87       FY88      F689      FY90
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimatu               0.3         1.2      3.4        5.6      6.2       6.2       6.2
Actual                           -          0.4       0.8        3.8      4.2       6.9       7.2L
Actual as I of Estimato          -         33        24         68       68       111       116
Date of Final Disbureemnts                      March 12, 1990
Bl Higher disbursement amount (US$7.146,601) due to changes in the value of SDR (IDA credit was
SDR 5. 8 million)



- 18 -
4. Project Ile montation
Iliul:T rtAt/c          Actual end 1989/c        Before Pro1ect/e
Key Iwdlcatore                       Wet         Dry         wet          Dry         wet          Dry
(ha)
Small-Scale Irri tlon
Sunort (about 3.600 ha) La
Vientiane Muniecialltv
Din Phao - 600 ha ,               600         600       458(489)jd    62(123)/d   300             0
Vientin  Provi
Pam   - 320 ha X                  320         300       188(291)      53(84)        62            0
Pakkayoung - 300 ha  b            300         300       295(298)      92(263)      300           0
Thad l  - 300 ha  b               300                   172(264)      91(231)       .             0
Savanuankht Provinc
Tonhen - 550 ha Lb                550         500       493(532)      95(475)      458           0
Sakhouang - 400 ha k              400         200       249(334)      37(78)       225           0
Soul - 400 ha Lb                   85         400       52(81)        248(395)      1S           62
Saravane Province
Nona Dens - 400 ha j              400         200       297(355)      91(128)      237            5
Long Mone - 400 ha  b             400         300       351(388)      52(212)      315           23
Chawmasek Province
Too - 600 ha Lb                   600         400       403(591)      98(277)      125           5
Khlamrmne Provlnc
Thathod - 1.300 ha  b           1,300         800       297(798)      0(214)       257           0
Total                          M         4.300       3.255(4.421)  919(2.480)2.349           95



- 19 -
Unit     Appralsal Estmate ,           Actual
B.    Croy Productlon Support
(a) lice Intensiflction
Limited packaget
- Rainfed                             ha                 71.500               na.
- Irrigateds vat season               ha                 20,000               n.a.
dry season               ha                _.QO                  V.
Subtotal                         ha                 94,500               n.a.
lull package:
- Irrigatodx vet season               ha                 16.000               n.a
dry seaaon               ha                 6 0000               n
Subtotal                         ha                 2200Q                n-a
Total                             ha                1165 5C0                n     f
(b)   Unland Crop Production Support
Maize                                  ha                 1,6C0                3.050 LZ
Casava                                ha                    900                   37 L
Sugarcane                             ha                    400                  145 LZ
Cc)   Sunuort for Develoament of
Research and Extension
Finance for equipment              USS m                  0.35                  n. . /h
C.    District Atricultxral Road
Nsdntenenc
Road Brigadc No. 1                       Km/yr                    160                  144 /1
No. 2                       Km/yr                    150                   25 /L
No. 3                       Vm/yr                    170                  120 L1
Total                                                 42                    289 Li
D.    Livestock Feod Processint Sunnort
Fnan ce for Imported feed                  US$              1,264,000            1.078.989 Li
Small-scale equipment                      US$              1,096,000            1,200,000 Li



- 20 -
Unit      Appraisal Estimate  g         Actual
E.     Susrcane Production and Processint
Supnoat
Sugar mill, vehicles & equipment           USS m                 1.57               2.53 a
Year of comissioning                        Year                 1987                1990
Output                                     Ton/yr               1,000                0 Ik
F.     Support for Warebouslax
Construct nev warehouses                    No.                   8                    8
Associated equipment & vehicles            USS m                 2.0                  2.3
G.     Technatal Assistance
TA long-term:
- Budget/programing                         SD/                  24                    0
- Warehouse management                      rn/a                 24                   24
- Sugar production specialist               m/m                  24                   36
Total                                                 n                    60
TA short-term:
- lnventory control                         rn/M                  3                    0
- Standardization                           t/rn                  8                    0
- Procurement                               rn/m                  6                    0
- Auditing/Accounting                       rn/a                  9                   0
Total                                                 26                   0
/a   SAR figure.
lb   Final list supplied by the Irrigation Department. HOA, Vientiane.
Lb   Source:  Irrigation Department, MOA, Vientiane.
4d  Figures In parenthesis are projections for 1990 by the Irrigation Department, NOA, Vientiane.
1e   Target for 1986 given In the project file.  No target given In SAR except G. Technical Assistance.
II  S9e para. 5.6 of Part I.
jg   1989 data for maize ara cassava (Source:  Tha-Ngone Feed Mill).  1990 data for sugarcane  (Sources
Pak Sap Sugar Mill). In addition, soyabean cultivation, not included at appraisal but later
finaneed under the project. reached 500 ha (production 400 tons) by end 1989 (Source: Tha-Ngone
Feed Hill).
/h   The fund was reallocated to finance the laboratory building at Na Phok National Research Center
because the proposed development of Champassak and Savennakhet research stations did not
mnaterialize.
Li Roadvorks changed early in the program from annual maintenance to complete reconstruction or new
construciton on a "once-only basis and the figures are, therefore, not comparable to those at
appraisal.
a    sources IDA disbursemnt records.
/k   Trial run was In 1990.  Comercial production started in 1991, under a managemnt agreement vith the
Australian company whlch Installed the plant. Full capacity output will be 2,000 tons/yr.



- 21 -
5. Project Costs and Financina
A. Prolect Costs
ADrO 8isal EstiMat  /                      Actual /b
Item                              Local       Foreign      Total        Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
Small-scale Irrigation              3.62         4.13        7.75         1.00        5.20 /c      6.20
Crop Production Support
- Rice Program                      0.52         2.45        2.97         0.20        3.50 /c      3.70
- Upland Crop Program               -            0.86        0.86)        -           0.88         0.88
- Equipment for Research            -            0.37        0.37)
District Agricultural Road
Maintenance                       0.45         2.30        2.75         0.30        2.23         2.53
Livestock Ieed Processing
Support                           0.31         2.36        2.67         0.15        2.28         2.43
Sugarcane Production and
Processing Support                0.36         1.21        1.57         0.49        2.53         3.02
Support for Warohousing             0.75         3.71        4.46         0.50        2.32         2.82
Technical Assistance and
Training                          0.10         1.27        1.37         0.05        0.89         0.94
Total                         6.11       18.66        24.77         2.69       19.83        22.52
La   Including both physical 6ad price contingencies; these contingencies for each component, except
small-scale Irrigation and crop production support components. were estimted on a pro-rata basis
since component-wise cost estimates given in the SAR project file (working papers) do not contain
stimated contingencies. It should be noted that some of the cost estimates (crop production
support and feed mill components) do not agree with those given in the SAR.
jb Based on IDA, 1FAD, and OPEC disbursement records. However, local cost estimates are highly
tentative since consistent Government data are not available. The local cost figures for appraisal
should be interpreted with caution as they are based on the official exchange rate of Kip 10 - US$1.
/c Estimated amounts disbursed under the IFAD Loan (130-LA).



- 22 -
S. Prolect linencinn
Source                                              Plannsd                 Expected Final
(USs million)
IDA Credit                                          6.2 (25)                  7.2 (32) Lt
IAD Loan/Grant                                     7.4 (30)                  9.2 (41) J&
OPEC Loan                                           3.1 (13)                  3.1 (14)
UNDP                                                0.9 ( 3)                  0.4 ( 2)
Domestic                                            7.2 (29)                  2.6 (11) /b
Total                                        24.8 (100)               22.5 (100)
LS     Increases In IDA Credit and IrAD Loan/Grant are due to changes in SDR value.  The clositg date
of IrAD Loan/Grant iL March 31, 1991. OPEC loan closed on April 30. 1990.
,'b    No goverument records of expenditures are available and highly .entative estimates have been
made.
E.    Pro1ect Results
A. Direct Benefits
Full Develoument
Indicators                          Appraisal Estimate                 PCR Estimate /g
1. Total Beneficiaries               60,000 farm households          cannot be ascertained
2. Incremental Annual Outputt
-  Paddy                          38,000 tons                     cannot be ascertained
-  Maize                           3,000 tons                     5.500 tons (1989)
-  Casava (dried)                  5.500 tone                     300 tons (1989)
-  Sugar                           1,000 tons                     2,000 tons
-  Concentrate feed for
pigs and poultry             10,000 tons                     3,200 tons (1989)
3. Incremntal Employment of
Farm Labors
-  Crop production                1 4 million man-days            cannot be ascertained
-  Livestock product              185.000 man-days                cannot be ascertalned



2 Z3 -
D. Economlc IMuact
Economic Analysis                            Appraisal Estimate            PCR Estlmate /
1. Irrigation (welr)                              16.4S ERR            cannot be aseortained
2. Irrigation (pumping)                           20.3: ERi            cannot be ascertained
3. Irrigation (rehabilitation)                    17.92 Eli            cannot be ascortained
4. Sugar mill                                     19.02 ERR            9.86  ERR
5. Rice Intensification Program                 1.9 B/C ratio          likely to be   1.0
6. Upland Crop Program                          1.6 B/C ratio          likely to be ;1.0
7. Livestock Foed                               1.1 B/C ratio          likely to be 21.0
See section 6 of Part I.
C. Financial Imuact
Appraisal                PCR /a
Impact on Farm Budgets                                Estimate                 Estimate
1. Rice Intensification Program
(Incremental net return/man-d.y)
(Z increase with project)
- Rainfed paddy fasm                                   112           cannot be ascertained
- Irrigated fasm (limited package)                     112           cannot be ascertalind
- Irrigated farm (full package)                        312           cmnnot be ascertained
2. Financial Analysl for Pig
Fattening Farms
- Model 1 (purchased feed)                          402 IRR)
- Model 2 (household waste)                        2882 Iln)          not calculated
- Model 3 (state farm)                              212 IRR)
/a See section 6 of Part I.



- 24 -
D. Studies
No study component was includsd under the project.
7. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Section No.                Covenant                     Compliance                      Stetus
4.02(a)         Retain a Project Coordinator          -                           Compliance /a
withln the State Planning
Comittee
4.02(b)         Appoint management and staff          Prior to                    Compltance
for the sugar mill                   completion of
construction
4.03(a)         Retain specialists to be                                          Partial Compliance
Mi)             provided by FAO
4.03(a)         Employ short-term technical           -                           Not Complied with
11)             advisers through consulting
firm
4.05(a)         Plans, *specifications,               As needed                   Partial Compliance
reports, contract documents
to be furnished to IDA
4.05(b)         Record and monitor project                                        Partial Compliance
progress, and furnish
progress reports regularly
to IDA
4.05(d)         Prepare a Project Completion          Not later than 6            Not Complied with
Report                               months after
credit closing
date
4.07            State Planning Coumittee to           Not later than              Partial Compliance
furnish following to IDA:            April 1, 1984 and
(a) irrigation plans &               each November 1.
designs, and (b) annual work         thereafter
programs and budgets for
each subproject
5.01(c)         Have financial statements             Not later than 6            Not Complied with
and accounts audited and             months after the
furnish to IDA audit report          end of each
fiscal year
5.02            Establish and thereafter                                          Complied with
maintain prices for                                              after the
processed feed, fertilizers,                                     introduction of
machinery services for land                                      the New Economic
preparation, and weaner pigs                                     Mechanism
at levels which shall enable
responsible agencies to
recover the fiaancial cost
thereof.
/a   Project Coordinator Is now in the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning because of
dissolution of the State Planning Cosmittee in 1988.



-25 -
8. Uss of lank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
St&a& of Project Cycle                      Planned          Revised             F1nal
(man-weeks)
Preappraisal La                             n.a              n.e.)                11.8
Appraisal                                   n.a.             n.a.)
legotiations                                n.a.             n.a.                 9.4
Supervision                                 n.e.             n.a.                80.1
PCR                                         n.a.             n.a.                12.0 (get.)
Total                                n m              n.c.113.3
/m Including identification and preparation.



- 26 -
B.  Missions
Month/    No. of    Days in       Specialization       Performance   Type of
Mission            Year       Persons   Flld /a      Represented Lk      Stetus Ls     Problem Ld
ldentification     1982         n.&       na.             n.a                  --
Preparation        1982         na.       n.a.            n.a                  --
Appraisal          Feb 83        5         16   AG, AG. EC. SC. EC EC          -
Interim Superrn.   fov 83        2          1              AG                n.a.          n.a.
Interim Supervn.   Feb 84        1          1              AG                n.a.          n.a.
Interim Supervn.   Mey 84        1          4              AG                n.a.          n.a.
Supervision I      Sep 64        4          4       AG, AG, WC, AEC          n.e.          n.e.
Interim Suprvn.   Dec 64         1          2              AG                n.a.          nUe.
Supervision 2      Feb 65        4          7      AG, ARC PRQ. EG             2          M. P, T
Interim Supervn.   Jun 85        2          3           AG, PBQ              n.e.          n.&.
Supervision 3      Sep 85        3          6         AG, AEC, EKG             2           na.
Interim Supervn.   lov 85        1          1              AG                n.e.          n.a.
Interim Superwn.   Jan 86        1          1              AG                n.a.          n.a.
Supervision 4      Mar 86        3          6         AG, AEC, EHG             2           n.a.
Interim Supevn.   Apr 86         1          3              AG               nU..           n.e.
Interim Supervn.   Jun 86        1          2              AG                n.e.          n.e.
Interim Supervn.   Sep 86        1          2              AG                n.s.          n.a.
Supervislon 5      Oct 86        2          5           AG, ENC                2           n.&.
Interim Supervn.   Dec 86        1          3              AG                n.a.          n.a.
Supervision 6      Mar 87        3          a         AG, EC, EMG              2           n.a.
Interim Supervn.   Apr 87        1          3              AG                n.a.          n.e.
Supervision 7      Sep 87        2          7           AG, ENO                2           n.a.
Interim Supervn.   Dec 87        2          7            AG, EC              n.e.          n.a.
Supervision 8      Apr 88        2          7           AG, HUG                2           n.a.
Supervision 9      Dec 88        2         10           AG, ENG                1           n a.
Supervision 10     Jun 89        2          3           AG, ENG                2           n.e.
Completion         feb 90        3         11         AG, EC. ENG              -
L    Estimted by PCR mission based on records avellable in the Bank's project files. All
supervision missions were undertaken together with supervision of other ongoing IDA-assisted
projects. No. of days in field for each Individual mission after Feb. 65 mission were not
recorted because of change in reporting format.
it   Specielizations  AG  - Agriculturist; EC - Economist; ZUG   Engineer; AEC - Agric. Economist;
PRQ - Procurement Engineer.
Le   Perforcmnce Rating:  1 - Problem-free or minor problems; 2 * Moderate problems;
3 - Major problems.
Id Types of Problemss F - Financial;  - Mawnagerial; P - Political; T - Technical. After Feb. 85
supervision, types of problems according to the above classification were not recorded in
supervision reports because of change in reporting formt. Hovever. menagerial and political
problems were almot always reported until the last supervision mission.
Ij   In addition to these, a loan officer (IDA) and an IFAD representative participated in the
mdisson.
C. Costs
go date available on cost of staff Inputs broken down by each stage of the project cycle.



-27 -
Page 1 of 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
(Credit 1395-LA)
Economic Re-Evaluation of Sugar
Production and Proces sin Comnonent
Costs
1.          All costs and benefits are in 1989 constant terms.  The invostment
cost of the sugar mill (Pak Sap Sugar Mill). transport and farm  equipment.
Infrastructure, and pro-production expenses. are estimated at about US$3.0 mil-
lion through 1989. The sugar mill was unstalled on a turnkey basis and cost
about US$2.0 milliong transport and farm equipment about US$640,OCO;
infrastructure, including earthwork, buildings, roads, electricity supply. etc.
about US$200,000; and pro-production expenses (s&laries and wages, cane
production investments, etc.) about US$160,000. The costs as shown In Table 1
are based on IDA disbursement records and estimated local expenditures. Further
infrastructure development in 1991 and 1992 for seed cane farm irrigation, roads
to service farming areas and accommodation for field and factory staff is
estimated to cost about US$50,000 and 100,000, respectively.
2.          The expatriate management costs are about US$1.0 million over five
years, as shown in Table 1, and are basod on the projections prepared by the
Australian company with which the management agreement was concluded.
3.          The mill-gate price for sugarcane offered in 1990 (for the trial run)
was K 5,500 (US$7.86) per ton. For 1991, the mill-gate price will be K 8,000
(US$11.43) per ton. The economic cost of sugarcane production and transport in
1989 constant terms is estimated at US$6.00 per ton. Sugar recovery rate is
assumed to be 10 percent.
4.          Salaries and wages of local staff have been calculated on the basis
of projected sugar output (see par-. 6 below). Information supplied by the Pak
Sap Sugar Mill In October 1990 shows that there were 31 regular staff (4
processing engineers, 4 mill workers, 12 tractor drivers, 7 extension staff, and
4 administration staff) and the salary cost was K 6 million (about US$9,000) for
1990. With the start of commercial production In 1991, additional workers will
be hired during mill operation. About 15 to 20 workers will be required per 8-
hour shift or about 50 to 60 workers per day of 3 shifts. At full capacity, the
mill will be operating at 3 shifts per day for about 3 months. The workers'



- 28 -
ANNEX
Page 2 of 3
wages will be about K 2.000 per worker per 8-hour shift. For 1991 and later
years, the salary cost of regular staff is aesum d to be K 10 million per annum
in 1989 constant terms (about US$15,000). To this has been added the cost of
hired workers as follows:
1991 - 60 worker. per day for 25 days  - K 3 million
1992 - 60 workers per day for 50 day.  - K 6 million
1993 - 60 workers per day for 75 days  a K 9 million
1994 - 60 workers per day for 100 days - K 12 million
5.          The coat of technical e-3sistance by the sugarcane expert (36 man-
month.) has been excluded since the benefit. of the breeding work done by the
expert cannot yet be quantified. The coat of overseas training of Pak Sep staff
has been ignored as it is a minor amount.
Benefitg
6.          A 20-year period of analysis has been chosen and the annual
production of sugar is assumed to be as follows:
Production
(tons)
1991               500
1992             1,000
1993             1.500
1994-2007        2,000
This projection is based on the actual area under cultivation in 1990 (145 ha),
which is likely to yield about 5,000 tons of sugercane in 1991. and the expected
buildup of sugarcane area over 1992/93.
7.        The estimation of the economic price of sugar for Laos is complicated.
Laos has traditionally imported moat of its sugar requirements from Thailand
where prices have been usually much higher than world prices. In September 1990.
while the f.o.b. Caribbean prices were about US$280 per ton, the average
wholesale price of refined sugar in northeast Thailand was B 11.56/kg
(US$460/ton) and in Bangkok B 11.58/kg. The retail price in Vientiane was about
K 450/kg (US$640/ton) and wholesale price K 400/kg (US$570/ton). The duty (10
percent) on sugar imported into Laos, and transport, handling and trading profit
margins will explain the difference in prices between northeast Thailand and
Vientiane. Since the Pak Sap Sugar Mill is producing plantation white sugar, a
d_scount of about 10 percent on the refined sugar price in northeast Thailand
should be applied.   With this discount,  and excluding import duties of
10 percent, the economic wholesale price in Vientiane is estimated at about
US$450/ton (the actual price at which the mill is planning to sell its sugar is
K 400/kg or US$570/ton).  The economic price of US$450/ton is less than the



- 29 -
ANNEXLI
Page 3 of 3
projected world prices of US$379 and 363 for 1992 and 1993 in 1989 constant terms
(World Bank, December 1990 projections), adjusted for frei8ht and other costs to
Vientiano, but somewhat higher than the projected prices of US$251 for 1991 and
US$288-314 ovor 1994-2005. adjusted for freight and other costs.
8.        No benefits for molasses have been taken into account as there is no
experience with its marketing in Laos and it is extremely difficult to project
its future uses in the country.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
9.        The ERR in the base case scenario is about 10 percent (Table 1). If
the expatriate management cost is reduced to US$120,000/yr. over 1991-95, the ERR
improves to about 11 percent. If there were no expatriate management costs, the
ERR would be about 12 percent.



Table a
PROJECT COMPLEMON REPORT
LO PEOPLEC'S DSCRTIC REMLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCION SUPPOIT PROJECT
(Credit 1395-LA)
Re-Estimation of ERR for Snur Production and Processian Componeat
(US$ '°°)
1988       1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       199S       199-2007
Coat.
SugEar Mil Iestmats.
transport mid fer
eqipment, and pre-
production expense                 300      2.500                                 -
Infratructure investment             150         50          -         so         100          -          -          -           -
Salaries and age                       -          2          9         20          30        35          40         40          40
Expatriate management costs            -          -          -         122        257        247        200        212           -
SuSarcane production and
transport                            -          -         15         30         60         90         120        120         120
Maintenance of mill. equipment
and infratructure                    -          -         10         50          75        100        100        100         100
Total Costs                     450      2-552         34        272        522                               472
enef it.                              _                               225         0                     90          00
Net Benefits                         (450)    (2.552)       (34)                            203                    426
DUI a 9.8X



~  ,CHINA                                              LA        E-REPUBLIC
'ANMAR(                                                                       LA      t-
7AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
MAP~~~EA~~\,~~    ( I ~VIENTIANE  PROVINCE
THAILAND   )IE1NAMPROJECT ROAD MAINTENANCE SECTIONS
''DEKMOCREA                                      ~' PROJECT AREAS FOR MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
AN SEA? IMAIN ROADS                                                                                                     RIVERS                                                        VE          A
OTHER ROADS                        PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
C  Li             I                                 ~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~AL    THA NGON FEED  - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
¾                                 (                         M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILL
IA~~~~~~/I
~NGAPORE ?y' 
IDONESIA                                   /
r his map has been preared by
The World Bank's staff exclusively       //1
for the convenience of Mhe                                      VagVieng./
internal use of The Ii,td Bank
*  and the Intemnatonal Ftnance
Corporation. The denominations
J  used anid the boundaries shown
on this maip do niot imply, on) the/
*   part of The Wortd Bank ano fth/
International Finance Corporation, 
any judgment on fth legal statuis
of any territory or any
suhbounldaries
KILOMETR   P                        45      60       75 C
Phonh~~~I                                                                    
MIE         10    30   45        30         70
1030
AU(



I 02-                                                 040                                            1060                                      HN
MYANMAR  L       o
|222 'CHINA \'                                                                                                                                                                                       ' CHINA  'E cI
V  '~~~~~~~~~~~~ '7 ~~~~~~~~~~22a
THAILAOD_
t-A  yS  m1;9Ngg                                                                                             .1.s ai  it f r~~~~~~~~~~-  ~vua
/DEMOCRATIC
-~  KAMPUC14EA 
-200  )                                                                                                                                         :_,>>2
l l F",'Wm Seng
-.MAI.AYSfA
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                              Km    \lG
I                   INDONESIA
N2t;s                                           ThS map has been prpeared by
TeWorld Bank's staff exckm*js
for arwfire of the
HOUA                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~readers and'is e=r*jsvedy tar hie
ofernal use of The I4bM Berel
and Mhe kitwnleborr Fe,arce
-200                                                                                                              \.ANG                                                  Cawdf  The denorrmaons 2
Pak                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~usedr and fte baurdnes snown20
On this MP do nof . on the
Part of rhe Wom!t Bank awid Owe
trrteMnroatxv FeiWnce oQ,oraton.
.ES                                                                                       anjmt on thE lOgal steAl6
EXISTING GRAVELof any teriRoyR of any
endorsefment or cceptance of
51eh2 boundarie
,   S,0               100 MILES                                                                             y             s   J                  _             y~~~E 
80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC  DTIAke
GRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
ELEVATION IN METERS:
1,000 AND OVERSanahe
200-999
0-199
-160                                                                                                                                                                                              6c
PROPOSED ROADS
-         ~~~EXISTING PAVED ROADS
EXISTING GRAVEL OR LATERITE ROADS
- -- -- -ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR BEING UPGRADED                                                                                                                 I
-jA.RIVERS                                                                     THAILAND4
P -  ARPORINS  BOUNDARIES                                                      -I
-    -   ~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                i-.4
0        50                 lOO~~~~~~~I 0MILES                      p
5!0            100          1 0 KILOMETERS                                ~                                     T     
C141
0                                                            ~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC KAMPUCHEA                                               
102'                                                104'                                               160 



