Document of
The World Bank                                    F.Wu
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4543-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
June 7, 1983
Projeets Department
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distributicn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = New Kip (NK)
NK 1.00         = $0.100
$1.00           = NK 10
NK 1.0 million = $100,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.20 lb
1 metric ton (1,000 kg) = 0.98 long tons
1 kilometer (ktn)           0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)              2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCEL        - Banque Coimmerce Exterieur du Laos
FAO         - Food and Agriculture Organization
IADP        - Integrated Agriculture Development Project
IFAD        - International Fund for Agricultural Development
OPEC Fund  - The OPEC Fund for International Development
RAS         - Regional Agriculture Stations
SIDA        - Swedish Initernational Development Authlority
UNDP        - United Nations Development Program
L AO DESIGNATIONS
,
Rhoueng - Provir.ce
I-uong   - District
Tasseng - SubdiStrict
Ban     - Villape
Hou.ei   - River
GOVERNMENT OF LAO PDR
FISCAL YEART
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         1
Government Objectives and Strategies . . . . . . . . . .         2
(i)  Cooperative Development . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
(ii)  Irrigation Expansion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
(iii)  Extension Coverage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
(iv)  Production Incentives . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         3
Experience with Past Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         4
II. PROJECT AREA
Location and Infrastructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         5
Location  .5...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  S
Soils and Climate .5..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  S
Land Tenure .5...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  S
Rural Infrastructure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6
III. THE PROJECT
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         6
Project Objectives ....  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  7
Project Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         8
Project Details. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
A.  Small-Scale Irrigation Support . . . . . . . . . . .         9
B.  Crop Production Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
(a)  Rice Intensification Program. . . . . . . . . .    10
(b)  Upland Crop Production Support. . . . . . . . .    10
(c)  Support for Development of Research and
Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
C.  Feeder Road Maintenance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in January/
February 1983 comprising Messrs. D. Forno, J. English, H.M. Kim and Ms. Long
from the Bank, Mr. N.I. Persson and consultants Messrs. J.L. Falvey and
R. Limbrey from IFAD. Mr. D. Batstone (consultant)'followed up on the sugar
processing component in March 1983.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
D.  Livestock Feed Processing Support. . . . . . . . . .   12
E.  Sugarcane Production and Processing Support. . . . .   12
F. Materials and Parts Warehousing and
Inventory Control Support. . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
G.  Technical Assistance and Training  . . . . . . . . .   13
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  15
Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
Disbursements  .....................   19
Accounts and Audit ................  ..  .   20
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination ............  ....  .  .   20
Organization and Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
A.  Small-Scale Irrigation Support . . . . . . . . . . .  21
B.  Crop Production Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
C.  District Agricultural Road Maintenance . . . . . . .  23
D. Livestock Feed Processing Support. . . . . . . . . .  24
E. Sugar Processing Support ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
F.  Warehousing  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  24
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Production ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
Prices ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   26
Financial Analysis - Enterprise Budgets  . . . . . . . .  27
Cost  Recovery    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits. .  . .........  29
Justification    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  30
Project Risks.. . .........  32
VIII.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS . . . . . . . . .  33
ANNEXES
1: Technical Assistance: Fellowships, Study Tours, Training
and Specialist Assistance                                  35
2:  Phasing of Total Project Costs                               36
3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                          37
4:  Farm Models for Rice Intensification Program                 38



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
5:  Farm Models for Pig Fattening Farms                                  39
6:  Commodity Prices Used in Economic Analysis                           40
7:  Summary of Economic Analysis by Type of Irrigation Scheme            41
8:  Weir Irrigation Scheme - Incremental Costs and Benefits              42
9: Crop and Feed Production Components - Summary of Cost
and Benefits                                                      43
10:  Documents in the Project File                                        44
MAPS
W.B.16123   -  Vientiane Province
W.B.17124   -  Lao People's Democratic Republic



I



LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
1.01      Agriculture is the backbone of the Lao economy and by far the most
important sector. Approximately three quarters of the labor force derives
the bulk of its employment and income from this sector and its production
constitutes around 70% of GDP. Most of the agricultural production in the
Lao People½s Democratic Republic (Lao PDR) is carried out by family cultiva-
tors who typically till about 2 ha of land (part lowland and part upland) to
which they have customary settlement and cultivation rights. Few rural
dwellers appear to be without land. Since 1975, a number of state farms and
cooperatives have been established in accordance with Government's policy of
introducing socialist forms of production, but as yet they occupy a rela-
tively small proportion of cultivated land.
1.02      The predominant crop in Lao agriculture is glutinous rice, which
takes up more than 80% of the cultivated area and is grown by almost every
farmer. Many farmers grow only rice and only enough for their own needs: it
is not clear what proportion of farmers provides the marketed surplus. Rice
production in the Lao PDR is very vulnerable to the climate, since only
about 30,000 ha of the 700,000 ha cultivated with rice are irrigated. Less
than 2% of total production is provided through dry-season irrigation.
Sixty-five percent of rice is produced from wet-season lowland areas, with
about 34% being produced in upland areas. Unreliable rainfall often leads
to drought or flooding. Thus, the typical production of rice in the country
is one crop per year from rainfed lowland or upland paddy fields; some of
the upland rice is produced through "slash and burn" methods. Typically,
rice is not produced using intensive cultivation techniques even on irriga-
ted areas; inputs of fertilizer, pesticides and labor per hectare are low,
and yields are correspondingly low, ranging from 1.1 ton/ha on upland paddy
to 1.6 ton/ha on wet-season lowland paddy and 1.9 ton/ha for dry-season
irrigated paddy.
1.03      Corn is the only other grain grown in significant amounts in the
country.  About 25,000 ha are grown annually; yields are low and most is
grown for household consumption. Small but increasing amounts of corn are
being purchased by Government for processing into animal feed, but some
700 tons of corn are still imported annually from Thailand to meet animal
feed requirements (see para. 1.05). Corn production and improved seed for
corn and other upland crops are being supported under the second IDA credit
(924-LA) to the Lao PDR. Other food crops are confined largely to backyard
production or on small plots around urban areas; these include vegetables,
soybeans, groundnuts and mungbeans.



1.04      The main industrial crops' in the Lao ]PDR are coffee, tobacco and
cotton, which occupy a few thousand hectares each and have low yields.
Production was severely affected by the destruc:iion of plantations during
the war and by subsequent neglect. Coffee production and processing are
being assisted under the third IDA credit to the Lao PDR (1021-LA). Sugar-
cane is grown, but no mechanized processing facLlity exists and some 5,000
tons of sugar are imported annually at a yearly cost of about $2 million.
1.05      Livestock also plays an important role in agriculture, as a source
of draft power and protein. There are no reliable data on either livestock
numbers or animal offtake, but the populations were depleted during the war
years.  There are reportedly some regional shortages of buffalo, which
inhibits land preparation and reclaLmation activiities. Typically, farming
families keep poultry, pigs and cattle in backyard operations. A pig
multiplication unit producing some 8,000 piglets annually was established
under the first IDA credit while other bilateral and international sources
have supported vaccine production, animal health, chicken raising and
buffalo production. Animal feed is; produced usitng a facility financed
largely through German-French aid.
Government Object--ies and Strategies
1.06      Over the 1978-81 period, agriculture was the focus of a great deal
of government policy, both directly and indirectly, since the major aim was
sa'e the Lao PDR self-sufficient in food, bot:h nationally and by province
and, by doing so, to provide a higher standard of living for thie rural and
urban populations, and to generate a surplus for investment.  The Govern-
ment's strategy for agriculture has had four maJor components:  first, the
organization of production activities on a cooperative basis; second, the
rehabilitation and construction of irrigation facilities to permit double
cropping, better water control and thus more intensive methods of produc-
tion; third, the construction of roads and a support system for agriculture,
including credit, extension, seeds, etc.; fourth, the provision of incen-
tives for production. The following paragraphs outline the main achievements
against these objectives and indicate how the proposed project has been
formulated to alleviate some of the major constraints.
(i) Cooperative Development
1.07      Up-to-date figures on cooperative development are not available;
it is generally stated that between a quarter and a fifth of farming
families are in about 2,500 cooperatives, which form about the same propor-
tion of the cultivated area. Most families are in "first stage" coopera-
tives (see para. 2.05). The Government's statements on cooperative
development have increasingly acknowledged that the extension of coopera-
tives is a long-term objective, and that the rate of growth of the coopera-
tive sector must coincide with the growth of cooperative management and



training to ensure their success. Currently, cooperatives are being
encouraged in areas where draft power is a constraint and where tractors are
required. The proposed project, while not supporting cooperative establish-
ment, would support the improvement of agricultural production among
farmers, including cooperative members, who have access to improved crop
technology through the agricultural extension service.
(ii) Irrigation Expansion
1.08      Steady, but slow, progress has been made in irrigation over the
past seven years. In 1977, it was estimated that some 20,000 ha of lowland
rice was flood irrigated by small pump schemes and stream diversions. About
7,000 ha of this area produced a second crop in the dry season. By 1983,
the irrigated area has grown to about 30,000 ha with 10,000 ha producing a
second crop. By comparison some 82,000 ha of potentially irrigable land has
been identified for small- and medium-scale irrigation development. Never-
theless, only about 3,000 ha of farmland can be brought under irrigation
each year, despite the substantial technical, training and financial
assistance provided by bilateral and international sources. Among the major
constraints are the severe shortages of foreign exchange for construction
materials, fuel and spare parts, the chronic shortage of trained manpower,
and inefficiencies in the whole process of procurement, materials management
and delivery. An important component of the proposed project would be the
development of the institutions and systems for expediting procurement and
for maintaining stocks of frequently used materials and spare parts.
(iii) Extension Coverage
1.09      The Lao PDR has only a small extension service, but it has been
growing in effectiveness over the past four years as a result of modest
technical and financial support provided by UNDP/FAO in conjunction with the
three earlier IDA credits for agriculture. Some 200 agricultural techni-
cians make up the extension service. Their level of training is quite low.
About half the technicians are located in Vientiane Province, while the
rest are spread mainly over the three southern provinces of Khammouan,
Savannakhet and Champassak. Most effort is directed to some 10,000 ha in
the above provinces where irrigation development has taken place, but severe
foreign exchange shortages limit the amount of inputs available and
therefore constrain the adoption of improved technology. Support would be
provided under the proposed project for agricultural inputs, but would be
limited to use in those areas covered by the extension service.
(iv) Production Incentives
1.10      The policy area in which most progress has been made since 1978
has been the incentive system. The Government introduced an import program
for consumer goods to be sold to farmers in exchange for rice, and at the



- 4 -
end of 1979, complemented it by large price changes which shifted the terms
of trade in favor of farmers. The shift in the terms of trade was increased
by the revision of the law on agricultural taxation, which ensured very low
marginal rates of tax rather than the high marginal rates applying before,
and by the introduction of a range of prices for state purchases within
which the state was prepared to negotiate. Collectively, these measures
were designed to increase production of rice and to increase the tax
receipts and procurements of the state.  The increases certainly accomr
plished the latter aim and, along w:Lth improved weather, probably contribu-
ted to the increase in cultivated area under rice in the last three years.
Similarly, procurement of corn through official channels for use in the
country's main feed mill has increased as incentive prices are paid for
corn. The project would further support such policies by linking project
funds for feed grain imports to domestic feed grain production.
Experience with Past Lending
1.11      The first IDA credit to the Lao PDR (760-LA for $8.2 million) was
signed on January 5, 1978. There have been three further credits of which
two have been for agriculture: Credit 924-LA for $10.4 million, signed on
June 15, 1979; Credit 1021-LA for $13.4 million, signed May 22, 1980; and
Credit 1197-LA, for $15.0 million, signed on March 3, 1982. The first three
credits were for agricultural rehabilitation and development, with the key
objectives being to improve the quantity and quality of food production; all
were directed to the Ministry of Agriculture. The first two credits suppor-
ted irrigation development; intensified rice cultivation through improved
seed production, fertilizer use, pilot extension activities; pig multiplica-
tion; and feed grain production.  The third credit concentrated more on
postharvest losses by providing for improved rice milling and coffee
processing, and also upgrading mechanical workshops. IDA has worked closely
with UNDP and FAO in the design and implementation of all of the credits.
Physical execution of these projects, after a slow start, is progressing
satisfactorily, although operations continue to be affected by a shortage of
counterpart funds, spare parts, and materials, and a lack of qualified local
staff for some key positions.
1.12      A fourth credit was designed to expand the Government's electri-
city exports to Thailand, to the mutual benefit for both countries, by
installing a fifth turbine generator unit (40 MW capacity) at the existing
Nam Ngum power station. That project also included studies for additional
hydroelectric projects in the Lao PDR to further increase exports of power
to Thailand. The project and the studies are progressing well and addi-
tional assistance to the power sector is currently being explored with
Government.
1.13      The 3ank Group-s relationship with the Lao PDR has been gradually
strengthened. The approval of the four IDA credits, the work of the econ-
omic missions in 1978, 1981, and 1982, and the appraisal of the proposed
project have all helped to create an atmosphere of increased understanding
between IDA and the Government.



-5-
II. PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Infrastructure
Location
2.01      The project would be focused primarily on Vientiane Province where
small-scale irrigation works, agricultural extension, feeder road mainte-
nance, sugar production and processing, and livestock feed industry develop-
ment would be supported. Support for the agricultural extension component
would also cover activities of the extension service in the other main rice
producing provinces of the Lao PDR, i.e., Savannakhet, Champassak, and to a
lesser extent Khammouane, Saravane and the northern province of Luang
Prabang. The project was designed to support a time slice of development
activities supporting agriculture. Because of severe implementation
constraints, the project areas were selected on the basis of availability of
surveys and design work, and on the immediate development potential of the
areas.
Soils and Climate
2.02      Lowland soils are alluvial, quite fertile, and are mainly cultiva-
ted with glutinous paddy. Similarly, levee soils along the Mekong and other
main streams are alluvial and are mainly cultivated to corn, tobacco, sugar-
cane and vegetables. The higher elevation soils are of low fertility and
are generally red yellow podzolics. Parts of these upland areas are still
under forest, while considerable areas are cropped with upland rice under a
shifting cultivation system (slash and burn) which is wasteful of forest,
soil and water resources. The land resources inventory of the Vientiane
Plain is illustrated in IBRD Map 13478 (see Project File, Annex 10).
2.03      High temperatures, humidity and rainfall characterize the climate.
Mean temperatures range between about 220C in December/January and 29°C in
April. Rainfall is governed by the monsoon which generally commences in May
and ceases in October. Although annual average rainfall is about 1,800
mm/year, it is irregular both in onset at the start of the wet season and in
distribution throughout the wet season (80% of rainfall occurs in the five-
month wet season) (see Project File, Annex 10).
Land Tenure
2.04      Most of the land in the project areas is farmed by individual
family units that have customary settler and cultivation rights. Data on
farm and family size, agricultural practices, and crop and livestock
production are limited, but the average farm family in the Vientiane Plain
is estimated to have approximately 5-7 persons with about 1.5 ha of lowland
rice land and a rather smaller area suitable for upland crops.
2.05      The Government's long-term objective in the rural sector is to
establish large-scale farm units for agricultural production. Cooperatives
are expected to become the principal form of organization for agricultural
production, although state farms are also planned for the production of



- 6 -
industrial crops and livestock. The authorities envisage three stages in
the development of cooperatives. In the first stage, the principles of
joint farming are promoted through the establishment of "farmers' associa-
tions" or work brigades designed to facilitate the exchange of labor and the
sharing of tools and draft power. In the second stage, arrangements are
made to cultivate the land collectively and to share the crops in proportion
to the days worked by each farmer. The final stage is to convert these
farmers' groups into formal agricultural cooperatives operating as collec-
tive farms. This may occur in two phases, with some of the land being
"rented" from members initially, but eventually most of the land is to be
communally owned. Membership of cooperatives, however, will be on a volun-
tary basis and members may retain part of their land and some animals for
themselves. The principal thrust :Ln forming cooperatives is in areas where
irrigation has been developed or where production of a particular crop is
being promoted, e.g., corn for the Tha Ngone feed mill (see para. 3.15).
Cooperatives in such areas usually receive priority attention from the agri-
cultural extension service and frorn other goverinment programs, e.g., machine
cultivation services (see para. 6.11 for a discussion of cost recovery).
Rural Infrastructure
2.06      The majority of the villages in Vient:Lane Province lack modern
public infrastructure. The main road system (Route 13) between the larger
villages is adequate for current traffic needs, although greatly in need of
repair. On the other hand, the feeder roads leading to the smaller villages
are frequently impassable to freight and passenger vehicles for 2-3 months
in the wet season, although still passable to farm carts and bicycles. Lack
of all-weather roads and the poor state of roads, even when not flooded,
greatly reduce the movement of produce out of agricultural areas. Improved
maintenance of the feeder road system is a basic requirement for increasing
agricultural productivity of the Vientiane Plain.
III. THE PROJECT
Background
3.01      In the seven years since the 1975 revolution, the Government has
been receiving increasingly larger amounts of bilateral aid and assistance
from international organizations. Much of the aLssistance has been used to
initiate agriculturally related development projects, particularly in the
fields of irrigation, livestock and livestock feed production, support for
increased rice production and processing, and for the forest industry.
While most of the projects have included considerable amounts of technical
assistance and capital equipment funding to help alleviate chronic trained
manpower and budgetary constraints, the pace of implementation has been slow
for most projects due to both slow procurement and delivery of goods, and
also to inadequate counterpart budgets to purchase the spare parts, fuel and
construction materials needed to maintain works. Once work stops on a



- 7 -
project, equipment and labor are typically transferred to another project
location, often resulting in delays of six months or more before returning, by
which time the long-awaited spare parts, etc. have been diverted to meet the
urgent needs of yet another project. Projects have therefore commonly taken
twice as long to complete as originally planned. In response to these insti-
tutional, financial and technical constraints in the implementation of all
projects in the Lao PDR, IDA and the International Fund for Agricultural Deve-
lopment (IFAD) missions which visited the country during 1982 gave particular
attention to identifying a project which would address these problems, while
not adding further to new project investments in areas where implementation
capacity is already overburdened.
3.02      Ongoing activities funded by IDA credits include small-scale irriga-
tion; intensification of rice production through improved seed production,
fertilizer use and pilot extension activities; rehabilitation of rice milling
and coffee processing facilities; and expansion of seed grain and pig breeding
capacity. The small-scale irrigation and rice intensification activities will
be complete within the next 18 months, and Government requested further IDA
assistance to continue expansion of these programs, and also to initiate or
expand a number of small-scale, supplementary activities, e.g., to increase
domestic production of animal feed and initiate sugar production. The project
was appraised in January/February 1983 by a joint IDA/IFAD mission.
Project Objectives
3.03      The primary objective of the project would be to increase agricul-
tural production--particularly rice, animal feed, and sugar--and thereby to
reduce imports. This would be achieved by:
(a) expansion of agricultural productive capacity; and
(b) strengthening of the existing agricultural productive capacity and
in the maintenance of existing support infrastructure;
In addition, the project has been designed to alleviate key institutional,
and technical constraints which have seriously delayed the pace of the
implementation and the realization of benefits from ongoing agricultural
projects in the Lao PDR. These constraints would be addressed by:
(a) establishment of a system for maintaining inventories of
frequently needed spare parts, construction materials and
agricultural inputs in the country to minimize lengthy work
stoppages and to enable the other projects to meet seasonal
production targets;
(b) streamlining procurement and delivery procedures for regularly
needed goods, and establishment of guidelines for standardizing
equipment and material purchases;
(c) improvement of the budgetary processes and the procedures for
monitoring project expenditures and physical achievements; and



- 8 -
(d) provision of training through technical assistance to expand the
manpower base of government staff familiar with basic institu-
tional processes such as budgeting, accounting, procurement and
project management.
Project Description
3.04      Six priority subprojects would be supported under the proposed
credit. Each of the subprojects is described in Working Papers in the Project
File. A brief description of their main features and of associated technical
assistance is given below:
(a)  Small-Scale Irrigation Support.  Development of small-scale
schemes (100 to 300 ha each) over some 3,600 ha, primarily in
Vientiane Province, but also in major rice growing provinces of
Khammouan, Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak. The project would
also include repair and maintenance of some 1,200 existing small
pumps in these provinces;
(b)  Crop Production Support.  Increased paddy and upland crop pro-
duction through provision of agricultural inputs, land prepar-
ation for upland crops, improvement of agricultural extension
and research coverage;
(c)  District Agricultural Roadl Maintenance.  Provision of limited
equipment to the Vientiane Provincial Authority to increase access
to markets through the improved maintenance of feeder roads in
major agricultural production areas of the Vientiane Plain;
(d)  Livestock Feed Processing Support.  Development of a medium-
scale animal feed industry (10,000 tons/year) based primarily
on locally produced raw materials and geared to supporting pig
and poultry breed improvement and multiplication for on-farm
raising and fattening by smallholders and cooperatives. Small,
specialized processing equipment and maintenance would be pro-
vided to fully operationalize the country s major feed mill, and
essential raw materials would be imported in conjunction with a
program to rapidly increase the proportion of locally produced
materials in the feed mix;
(e)  Sugarcane Production and iProcessing Support.  Establishment of a
small-scale sugar processing facility to process locally grown
sugarcane into about 1,000 tons of plantation white sugar per
year, thereby substituting for about 20% of annual sugar imports
and providing quality sugar for the country's confectionary and
soft drink industries;
(f)  Material and Parts Warehousing and Inventory Support.  Improve-
ment of systems for materials and spare parts inventories,
procurement and delivery of materials and spare parts through
provision of warehousing and related equipment, and technical
assistance in warehouse management, inventory control,
standardization and procurement; and
(g) In support of these subprojects long- and short-term experts
to establish systems and itrain staff in spare parts inventory



- 9 -
control, work programming, budgeting and accounting, and in sugar-
cane production would be provided.
Project Details
3.05      Details of the six subprojects to be supported are given below,
together with implementation aspects. Although subprojects would be imple-
mented relatively independent of each other, the State Planning Committee
would be responsible for overall project coordination, monitoring and evalua-
tion. Details of the State Planning Committee-s role are given in Chapter IV.
A. Small-Scale Irrigation Support
3.06      Implementation of the small-scale irrigation schemes would be
carried out by the provincial irrigation authorities, primarily in Vientiane
Province, but also in the main rice growing provinces of Khammouan,
Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak. Under the project some 3,600 ha would
be developed in Vientiane Province during the three-year project period.
Another 3,000 ha would be developed over the same period through financing
from the first IDA credit (Cr. 760-LA), under which 5,000 ha have already been
developed. Survey and design work are well advanced to enable a construction
program of some 1,700 ha in the 1983/84 dry season, 2,300 ha in 84/85 and
2,600 ha in 85/86. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that the loca-
tion and designs of irrigation works would be approved by the Bank prior to
the commencement of works by November 1st of each year (para. 8.01 (a)).
Construction would be carried out through force account by provincial authori-
ties, which have the capacity to handle this modest level of development.
Most schemes would be small pump and gravity-fed systems with command areas of
between 100 and 300 ha, and an average cost of $1,100/ha. The project would
finance construction materials and equipment operation costs associated with
development of 3,600 ha, amounting to about $2.6 million. Equipment purchases
would be limited to about $0.9 million as a considerable amount of equipment
has been provided under earlier multilateral loans and through bilateral aid.
Technical assistance for the irrigation department is being provided by
UNDP/FA0 (LAO/81/001) and by bilateral aid, particularly from Australia. No
additional technical assistance to that already being provided or planned
would be necessary under the project.
3.07      In addition to the construction program, the project would provide
spare parts and operation costs for some 1,200 small-scale diesel and electric
pumps, at a total cost of about $1.2 million. An important aspect of this
component would be the gradual standardization of pumps and motors as replace-
ment parts are ordered, so that the range to be supported would be reduced to
only four or five brands. Guidelines for standardizing pumps and motors would
be developed by short-term experts provided under the project (see para.
3.18). Currently some 30 different makes are being used and this has greatly
compounded the maintenance problem.
B. Crop Production Support
3.08       Implementation of the crop production aspects of this subproject
would primarily be the responsibility of the Department of Agriculture of the
Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with provincial departments of agricul-
ture. The Department has been given assistance under earlier IDA credits



- 10 -
(Crs. 760-LA, 924-LA, and 1021-LA) in association with UNDP and FAG (see
Project File, Annex 10).
(a) Rice Intensification Program
3.09      Support under earlier IDA credits has been focused on developing the
rice intensification program. This is based upon the introduction of an
improved technology package of improved seeds, fertilizer and pesticides, and
improved cultural practices. This has principally concentrated upon areas
served by irrigation in the five provinces of Vientiane, Khammouan,
Savannakhet, Champassak and Saravane, where adequate extension back-up is
available.  In 1982/83 nearly 10,000 ha were covered by the program in the wet
season and about 3,500 ha in the dry season.  During the period of the pro-
posed project it is anticipated that the irrigated area covered by the program
would be roughly doubled.  A limited package comprising application of ferti-
lizer to nursery areas, with limited pesticide support would also be extended
in rainfed areas concentrating on 28 districts in the five provinces.  The
inputs would be distributed by the Provincial Department of Agriculture in
accordance with established procedures, since no private sector or government
agency exists at this stage to distribute such goods.  The Ministry of
Agriculture recovers the cost of inputs from farmers in kind (see para. 6.11).
The project would also provide limited additional spraying and transport
equipment and storage facilities to support the further expansion of the
extension service in the 28 largest districts.  The ongoing IDA credits would
finance fertilizer and pesticide requirements thrcough the 1984 wet season, and
it is assumed that bilateral sources would continue to supply about 1,000 tons
of fertilizer per year. The proposed project would cover the balance of
requirements through the 1985/86 crop year.  Total costs of inputs and small
agricultural equipment to be financed over the three-year project would be
about $2.3 million.
(b) Upland Crop Production Support
3.10      Apart from rice production, the project would also promote produc-
tion of corn, cassava and sugar in order to meet demand shortfalls for
processing into animal feeds and to supply the sugar mill (see also the
Livestock and Sugar Processing Support components of the project). The main
constraints to production which the project would address would be support for
machine cultivation of upland soils, primarily for corn, cassava and sugar,
and support for maintenance of district agricultural roads to allow access to
markets, primarily the feed mill at Tha Ngone. An Australian aid project
would run in parallel with the proposed project and would focus on cassava
production. Technical experts associated with the Australian aid project
would work closely with the Feed Mill Agency and the Raw Material Procurement
Agency to promote cassava and corn production and its sale to the feed mill.
3.11      The Department of Machinery of the Ministry of Agriculture operates
a pool of tractors for contract ploughing of farmers  fields, primarily those
farmed as cooperatives.  The Lao PDR suffers from a shortage of draft animals
and those available are utilized in lowland rice areas to which they are
better adapted. The Ministry recovers costs in kind for the contract
ploughing service (see para. 6.11). The project would support this program in



- II -
the upland areas, largely to promote production of corn, cassava and sugar,
through the provision of cultivation equipment and operation and maintenance
costs for preparation of some 2,350 ha of crop land annually. No tractors
would be procured as sufficient numbers have been provided through multila-
teral and bilateral aid. Total cost of input supplies, equipment and
operation and maintenance to be supported by the project would be about $0.8
million.
(c) Support for Development of Research and Extension
3.12      The Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP), funded by
UNDP, is designed with the objective of strengthening the Government's
capacity at the national, regional and provincial levels, to provide
coordinated services in the following areas: applied agricultural research;
agricultural extension, training and information; seed production and
multiplication; plant disease analysis and control; and soil analysis and
classification. This project, which will primarily provide expert technical
assistance, will complement ongoing activities funded by IDA in addition to
the production support activities included in the proposed project.
3.13      The IADP will provide 120 man-months of long-term experts.  In
addition to the Project Manager, principal emphasis will be placed on
agricultural research, with more limited inputs for agricultural mechaniz-
ation, plant protection and extension. A further 41 man-months of shortterm
consultant inputs are to be provided, 72 man-months of volunteer input in
agricultural mechanization and soil laboratory operation, and funds for
fellowships, study tours and appropriate local in-service training. Govern-
ment will provide local personnel manning the facilities to be assisted, funds
for additions to national facilities and for conversion of two local field
stations at Savannakhet and Champassak to Regional Agricultural Stations
(RASs). Additional equipment and materials are required to support the IADP
project activities, e.g., fertilizers and pesticides for operation of
experimental stations, laboratory equipment and supplies, small machinery and
limited transport equipment for the RASs. The proposed project would provide
approximately $350,000 to finance the purchase of approximately one third of
these materials and equipment.
C. Feeder Road Maintenance
3.14      Support for maintenance of agricultural feeder roads would be
confined to Vientiane Province where the greatest immediate potential exists
for rapidly expanding rice and corn production. Three pilot road maintenance
units, each costing about $0.35 million, would be provided. Each unit would
maintain about 160 km/year of laterite roads in three of the five main
agricultural districts of Vientiane Province. The maintenance units would be
operated by the Vientiane Provincial Authority. Road works would be
relatively simple routine maintenance and storm damage repairs and well within
the capability of the provincial authority.



- 12 -
D. Livestock Feed Processing Support
3.15      The subproject would comprise the provision of essential imported
feed ingredients and limited additional equipment necessary to increase the
operational flexibility of the Tha Ngone Feed Mill. The feed mill was
established in 1976 through French and German assistance and has a capacity of
25,000 tons of feed mix/year. Operational assistance is being provided by the
Soviet Union. It currently operates at about 2,000 tons/year in accordance
with demand; but demand will grow steadly to about 10,000 tons/year over the
life of the project with the expansion to full development of the pig breeding
and multiplication enterprises, supported under Credit 760, and the poultry
unit at Dong Doc. However, in order to limit the need for imported feed
materials, Government agreed at negotiations to limit the rate of expansion
of intensive pig and poultry enterprises in accordance with the rate of
increase in the production of feed materials locally. This was consistent
with the main objective of the component at appraisal which was to stimulate
local production of major raw materials by providing temporary and declining
imports of raw materials to meet minimum demands for feed mixes, until local
production and procurement cater for all requirements. At negotiations total
feed substrate imports were agreed to be limited to $1.12 million over the
three-year project on the basis of current demand. As described in paras.
3.10 to 3.11 the project would support the production of corn and cassava for
feed and reliance on locally produced raw materials would be further assisted
under the project by provision of simple preprocessing equipment, costing a
total of about $0.5 million. Feed mixes produced by the mill during this
interim period would be tied to priority uses only, notably the existing
intensive pig and poultry production units.  At negotiations the priority uses
of feedmix from Tha Ngone and realistic rates of increase of locally grown
material in the feedmix were agreed upon and set out in a side letter to the
Credit Agreement. The annual progress report of Government (see para. 5.01)
would provide data on feed demand, production and the proportions of locally
grown and imported substrates. An agreement was obtained at negotiations that
disbursements against raw material imports would be contingent on a
satisfactory increase in the proportion of locally produced raw material in
the feed mix (para. 8.01 (b)).
E. Sugarcane Production and Processing Support
3.16      Implementation of agronomic aspects of sugarcane production would be
handled by the Department of Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture.
However, since sugarcane is already grown in small plots (0.5 to 5 ha) by a
large number of individual farmers and cooperatives in the Vientiane Plain,
the primary objective would be to undertake a program of introducing improved
cane varieties. A sugarcane expert would be provided under the project to
assist in rehabilitating the applied sugar research program and to multiply
and introduce into farmers fields the improved cultivars already proven to be
suitable for the Lao PDR. He would also assist in planning production targets
and logistics for when the proposed mill becomes operational in the third year
of the project. Cane requirements for the mill could be met from about 400 ha



- 13 -
annually. This level of production already exists in the Vientiane Plain and
is increasing annually as demand grows from the small, hand-operated raw sugar
plants being installed for domestic use.
3.17      The mill to be constructed would have an annual capacity of 1,000
tons of plantation white sugar. This amounts to about 20% of the current
official import level. The mill would be installed on a turn-key basis and
responsibility for its management would rest with the Department of Light
Industry of the Ministry of Industry. The installation contract for the mill
would include start-up operations, testing and staff training. An assurance
was obtained at negotiations that the type and specifications of the sugar
mill would be mutually acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower and that the
management and adequate staff for the sugar mill would be appointed prior to
completion of the mill's installation (para. 8.01 (c)).
F. Materials and Parts Warehousing and Inventory Control Support
3.18      With regard to establishment of inventories of frequently needed
goods, the proposed project would provide technical support for the newly
formed Ministry of Materials, which is responsible for consolidating all
government purchase orders and for maintaining inventories of frequently
used goods such as agricultural inputs, spare parts and construction
materials. The proposed project would provide a warehouse management expert
for two years to assist in developing warehouse management procedures and an
inventory control system to ensure that frequently used goods would be
available in stock, thereby avoiding long delays in procuring such goods
internationally according to ad hoc demand. Two short-term experts would
assist the warehouse management expert (a) by developing a computerized
inventory control system (3 man-months) and (b) by preparing guidelines for
standardizing the purchase of certain types of equipment and materials in
accordance with internationally accepted procedures. Apart from the
technical assistance and training, the proposed project would finance the
construction of eight new warehouses (800 to 1,250 sq m), rehabilitation of
several large existing warehouses, and procurement of associated equipment
and vehicles, costing an average of $110,000 for each warehouse and
totalling $1.8 million.
G. Technical Assistance and Training
3.19      Details of technical assistance to be provided under the project
have been given in the relevant project implementation sections of this
report and are summarized in Annex 1.  IFAD and UNDP would collectively
provide technical assistance grants totalling $800,000 for about 72 man-
months of long-term experts ($6,700/man-month) and 24 man-months of short-
term experts ($8,000/man-month). Costs include remuneration, travel and
all overheads. The three long-term experts in warehouse management, budget-
ing and programming and sugar production, to be funded by UNDP and managed
by FAO, would assist Government in carrying out the various project works
provided for under the project. The four groups of short-term experts, to



- 14 -
be funded by IFAD and executed by Government would, on the other hand,
assist Government by setting up systems and procedures for key government
functions relating to procurement, inventory control, accounting and audit-
ing.  This would be of benefit to other government projects, and would help
perpetuate the project's institutional benefits beyond the life of the
project. It is proposed that Government procure these short term consult-
ancy inputs through a contract with a single consultancy firm. An assurance
was obtained that the three longterm experts would be in place not later
than March 31, 1984 (para. 8.01 (d)).
3.20      Terms of reference for each of the experts are given in the
Project File (Annex 10) and include a requirement that local staff be
trained, especially in regard to the newly designed procedures and systems.
In addition IFAD and UNDP would provide funds totalling about $350,000 for
training through international study tours (105 manl-years of study tours
($2,000/tour)) fellowships (72 man-months of overseas fellowships
($2,500 per man-month)) and through in-service training (924 man-years
($83 per man-month)). Study tours would usually be of about two weeks
duration and be to neighboring countries (a) to observe agricultural
extension methodology and applied research practices and findings and (b) to
attend conferences and visit countries where experience could be gained of
value to the work areas covered by the project. Fellowships would generally
be for one year's duration and be for specialized training in agricultural
production and processing. In-service training amounting to about 924
man-months would largely be for agricultural extension and research staff.
Some farmer training would also be included. Responsibility for arranging
and coordinating training would be that of the Project Manager of the
UNDP/FAO Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP) which incorpor-
ates the training assistance to be provided by UNDP under the project. The
IADP also includes technical assistance for research, seed production and
extension and has been designed around several earlier UNDP/FAO technical
assistance projects. A copy of the IADP is included in the project file.
The IADP project was signed April 11, 1983 and the Project Manager has taken
up his position.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.01      Total costs of the three-year project would be about $24.8 mil-
lion, of which about $17.6 million, or 71%, would represent foreign exchange
requirements.  Costs of goods to be procured under the project would be
exempt from all taxes and duties. A phLysical contingency factor of 10% has
been applied except for technical assistance and those components where
financing has been provided for a time slice of ongoing operations, i.e.,
irrigation development and feed and agricultural chemical imports. Physical



- 15 -
contingencies amount to $0.8 million or 4% of the base cost. Costs are
based on May 1983 prices and include expected price increases over the
implementation period of $3.2 million or 15% of base costs plus physical
contingencies when computed as follows:
Annual inflation rate (%)
1983  1984  1985  1986
Foreign expenditures                         8    7.5    7       6
Local expenditures                          10       8    7      6
Details of the project cost estimates are provided in Table 1. The phasing
of project costs is given in Annex 2.
Financing
4.02      Total financing would amount to $17.56 million (71% of project
cost equal to 100% of foreign exchange costs), including $1.1 million (6% of
project cost) to be provided as technical assistance grants by IFAD and
UNDP. IDA, IFAD, the OPEC Fund and UNDP would cofinance total project costs
in the following proportions: IDA, $6.21 million (25%); IFAD, $7.38 million
(30%), including $0.39 million of technical assistance grant; the OPEC Fund,
$3.11 million (13%); and UNDP, $0.86 million (3%). IDA, IFAD and the OPEC
Fund would cofinance the project on a parallel basis. IDA funds would be
disbursed against the three subprojects covering Livestock Feed Processing,
Sugarcane Production and Processing, and Material and Parts Warehousing and
Inventory Support. IFAD would disburse against expenditures under the
Irrigation Subproject and for the Agricultural Inputs component of the
Agricultural Production Support Subproject. The OPEC Fund would disburse
against the Upland Crop Production of the Agriculture Production Subproject
and the District Agricultural Road Subproject. Cofinancing terms would be
the standard IDA, IFAD and OPEC Fund terms. Cross-effectiveness and
cross-default clauses would be included in the agreements of the respective
cofinancing partners (para. 8.03). Government would meet the balance of
project costs (NK 72 million or 29% of total project costs) from normal
budgetary sources. Details of the financing plan are shown in Table 2.



- 1.6 -
Table 1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
% total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total    base   %
(new Kip million)  --- ($ million) ---    cost  F.E.
Small-Scale Irrigation Support
Medium scale development
and rehabilitation          29.1   25.7   54.8  2.91   2.57   5.48   26.3   47
Pump repair and maintenance  2.4    9.7   12.1  0.24   0.97   1.21    5.8   80
Subtotal                 31.5   35.4   66.9  3.15   3.54   6.69   32.2   53
Crop Production Support
Rice intensification
program                      4.3   18.9   23.2  0.43   1.89   2.32   11.2   81
Upland crop production
support                        -    8.1    8.1       -   0.81   0.81    3.9  100
Research and extension            -    3.5    3.5       -   0.35   0.35    1.7  100
Subtotal                  4.3   30.5   34.8  0.43   3.05   3.48   16.7   88
District Agricultural Road
Maintenance                  3.7   19.1   22.8  0.37   1.91   2.28   11.0   84
Livestock Feed Processing Support
Imported raw material            -   11.2   11.2       -   1.12   1.12    5.4  100
Small equipment and mainte-
nance support                2.6    8.3   10.9  0.26   0.83   1.09    5.2   76
Subtotal                  2.6   19.5   22.1  0.26   1.95   2.21   10.6   88
Sugarcane Production and
Processing Support
Small-scale cane processing
equipment and maintenance  3.0   10.0   13.0  0.30   1.00   1.30    6.3   77
Subtotal                  3.0   10.0   13.0  0.30   1.00   1.30    6.3   77
Material and Parts Warehousing
and Inventory Support
Warehousing retabilitation
and construction            11.2    7.4   18.6  1.12   0.74   1.86    8.9   40
Warehousing equipment             -   18.4   18.4       -   1.84   1.84    8.8  100
Subtotal                 11.2   25.8   37.0  1.12   2.58   3.70   17.8   70
Technical Assistance
Long term                         -    5.4    5.4       -   0.54   0.54    2.6  100
Short term                       -    2.6    2.6       -   0.26   0.26    1.3  100
Training                       0.8    2.6    3.4  0.08   0.26   0.34    1.6   76
Subtotal                  0.8   10.6   11.4  0.08   1.06   1.14    5.5   93
Total Base Cost Estimates   57.1  150.9  208.0  5.71  15.09  20.80  100.0   73
Physical contingencies          1.0    6.4    8.1  0.17   0.64   0.81    3.9   79
Expected price increase         7.3   18.3   31.6  1.33   1.83   3.16   15.2   58
Total Cost               58.0  189.7  247.7  7.21  17.56  24.77               71



- 17 -
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN
IDA           IFAD        OPEC FUND          UNDP          LAO PDR        Total
$ million  %  $ million                    X $ million  %  $ million       % $ million  mi
Irrigation Support
Medium scale development
and rehabilitation                -           2.62  56           -               -         2.86    44       5.48
Pump repair and mainte-
nance                             -           0.97  80           -               -         0.24    20       1.21
Crop Production Support
Rice intensification
program                           -            1.89  81          -               -         0.43    19       2.32
Upland crop production
support                           -               -           0.81  100          -            -      -      0.81
Research and Extension                           0.35 100           -    -         -             -     -      0.35
District Agricultural Road
Maintenance                       -                           1.91   84          -         0.37    16       2.28
Livestock Feed Processing
Support
Raw material supply              1.12 100           -               -    -         -             -     -      1.12
Small equipment and mainte-
nance support                  0.83  76           -              -    -          -         0.26    24       1.09
Sugarcane Production and
Processing Support
Small-scale cane processing
equipment and maintenance   1.24  95              -              -    -          -         0.06      5      1.30
Material and Parts Ware-
housing and Inventory
Support
Warehousing rehabilitation
and construction                  -   -           -              -    -          -         1.86   100       1.86
Warehousing equip. and main-
tenance                        1.84 100           -              -    -          -            -      -      1.84
Subtotal                   5.03  25        5.83  30        2.72   14          -         6.08    31    19.66
Technical Assistance
Long term                           -               -               -           0.54 /a         -             0.54
Short term                          -            0.26 /a            -              -             -            0.26
Training                            -            0.13 7a            -           0.21 /a          -            0.34
Subtotal                       -           0.39 /a            -           0.75 /a          -             1.14
Physical contingencies           0.29            0.23              -               -         0.29             0.81
Expected price increase          0.89            0.93           0.39            0.11         0.84             3.16
Total Project Cost          6.21  25       7.38  30        3.11   13      0.86  3       7.21    Z9    24.77
/a  Financing to be provided as a grant.



-" 18 -
Procurement
4.03      The project would strengthen procedures for procurement and for
monitoring inventories of spare parts and other frequently needed goods.
Procurement in the Lao PDR is centralized through the Lao Import/Export
Society attached to the Ministry of Commerce. This agency has acquired
considerable experience with international bidding procedures under earlier
IDA credits and from other international and bilateral assistance. The
Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) has also proviLded technical
assistance to the unit. However, under the proposed project, 8 tian-months of
short-term technical experts would be provided to develop the tender,
contractual and payment procedures for long-term contracts to be negotiated
for the supply of regularly needed goods, such as construction materials and
spare parts. Current arrangements, by which individual contracts are let
according to intermittent, technical ministry demands on an ad hoc basis, are
very inefficient in terms of costs, processing requirements and time lags in
delivery.
4.04      Procurement, except for small items as fuel, amounting to about
$5 million, would generally be on th,e basis of international competitive
bidding. At a minimum, tenders would be advertised in an English language
newspaper in a neighboring country where international firms are well repre-
sented. For goods such as spare parts and construction materials amounting to
about $2.0 million which would need to be procured on a continuing basis, and
in the case of spare parts with part:icular brands specified, bidding and
contracting procedures would permit long-term contracts to be negotiated among
a small number of qualified suppliers (usually a minimum of three). Technical
assistance would be provided to deve]Lop tender, contractual and payment
procedures which would be appropriate for the Lao PDR and consistent with
internationally accepted procedures. Turn-key tender procedures for the sugar
processing facility ($1.3 million) would follow a two-stage procedure whereby
evaluation would firstly be made on technical grounds and then on the basis of
price to ensure adequate weight is given to both aspects. For orders less
than $75,000, not exceeding $2.4 million in aggregate, local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA could be followed. Some 15 international
firms, largely Thai with some Japanese and European firms, are represented in
the Lao PDR and are able to offer competitive prices on small orders.  Fuel
and lubricants, amounting to about $2.1 million, would be procured mainly
through existing long-standing contracts between Government and Shell Co.
(Laos) which is the only firm with fuel storage facilities in the country.



- 19 -
Should Government wish to procure fuel and lubricants from other sources,
disbursement would be contingent on submission of documents for review by IDA
detailing the comparative cost advantage of alternative sources. For all
contracts estimated to cost $100,000 or more, the Association's prior approval
would be required before invitations to bid are issued, and before contracts
are awarded.
Disbursements
4.05      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of the foreign
exchange cost of directly imported materials, spare parts, equipment,
vehicles, fuel, and lubricants; 100% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured materials, parts and equipment; 100% of the foreign exchange cost
and 80% of local costs for turn-key contracts for installing the sugar mill;
and 75% of expenditures for locally procured materials, spare parts, vehicles
and equipment. Because of severe foreign exchange constraints, prefinancing
IDA's share of project expenditures by Government is not possible and would
lead to considerable delay in procuring such things as spare parts. Large
purchases of imported goods under the project would be financed through
Letters of Credit covered by IDA's agreement to reimburse. However, for small
expenditures this would not be practical. Therefore, to provide Government
with funds to make small purchases under the project, a revolving fund would
be set up in a Special Account of the borrower from which IDA and IFAD-s share
of the costs of materials, spare parts, and equipment, as well as civil works
construction could be financed. The amount in the revolving fund would be
sufficient to cover about three months of project expenditures, but excluding
those expenditures which would be large enough to be paid through other
disbursement procedures. An initial disbursement of $250,000 would be made
from the IDA credit account and $500,000 from the IFAD account/l to the
Special Account which could then be replenished up to a maximum of $250,000
and $500,000 respectively upon request of the Borrower, supported by
documentation satisfactory to IDA. The account would be established in US
dollars in a commercial account acceptable to IDA. An assurance was obtained
at negotiations that, as a condition of effectiveness, Government would open a
Special Account in a banking institution acceptable to IDA (para. 8.02).
Withdrawal applications submitted to IDA would be supported by documents in
accordance with standard IDA requirements. Project works are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1986. Disbursements would be completed by December
31, 1987. The disbursement profile (see Annex 3) is based on experience with
three earlier IDA credits in the Lao PDR. The agricultural chemical and feed
components of the project would cover only a three-year time slice, while
construction of the irrigation works, warehouses and sugar mill would be
completed in the fourth year. Since the works program is about two years
/1 IFAD-s use of the Special Account will be determined during negotiations
of the IFAD Financing Agreement, tentatively scheduled for the end of
June, 1983.



- 20 -
shorter than for the average agricultural project in the region, the
disbursement profile for the project has also been reduced. However, the
profile does follow the regional experience of slow disbursement in the
initial years and of disbursements continuing for up to one year after the
main project works are completed.
Accounts and Audit
4.06      Expenditures under the project would be recorded in accordance
with established government procedures, i.e., the Ministry of Materials
would maintain records of all goods procured under the project, including
details of delivery to implementing agencies. Similarly the Ministry of
Commerce would keep records of fuel and lubricant deliveries. Records of
payments against these items would be kept by the Department of External
Finance of the Ministry of Finance. ]3ach implementing agency would maintain
records adequate to show how goods were utilized. The Audit Department of
the Ministry of Finance is responsible for auditing all government accounts,
and would also audit the operations of the Special Account (para. 4.05).
'Government has been unable to meet audit requirements under earlier IDA
credits. Nine man-months of technical assistance would be provided by IFAD
to help strengthen accounting and auditing procedures.  The specialists
would (a) review accounting and auditing systems and procedures; (b)
determine existing accounting and auditing capability; and (c) identify
technical assistance and training required to introduce these systems. In
the operational agencies, i.e., the feed mill, agricultural machinery,
livestock production and raw material procurement agencies, the accounting
systems would be improved to permit better cost accounting of their
operations. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government would
submit annual audit reports to IDA for the project no later than June 30 of
each year, including audit reports on the operations of the revolving fund
(para. 8.01 (e)).
V. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination
5.01      In accordance with recently modified procedures, the State
Planning Committee is responsible for coordinating and approving all
technical ministry work plans in the context of their conformity with the
National Plan and with the National Budget. Technical ministries are also
required to submit semi-annual progress reports to the State Planning



- 21 -
Committee. The proposed project would be coordinated through the State
Planning Committee and would, therefore: (a) help to institutionalize the
new procedure; (b) provide a focal point for Government to monitor and
evaluate the project and (c) establish a more effective mechanism through
which the project could be supervised. In particular, superv4sion missions
would be able to review overall annual work programs and projected expendi-
tures of individual ministries, thereby providing a better perspective of
their implementation commitments. Technical assistance would be provided to
strengthen budgetary procedures and to train staff in the preparation of
work programs, budget requests and accounts. An expert to be funded for two
years by UNDP (Annex 1) would be attached to the Department of Evaluation in
the Ministry of Agriculture, since that ministry would be responsible for
implementing most of the subproject activities. Terms of reference for the
expert are given in the Project File (Annex 10). The State Planning
Committee would prepare an annual evaluation report on the progress and
expenditures for each project component. This report would primarily be
prepared for review at the vice-minister level of the State Planning
Committee. However, a summary of the report would be prepared for IDA.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the State Planning Committee
would provide annual work programs and budgets for review by supervision
missions by November 1st of each year for each of the components of the
project and that annual progress reports would be submitted to the
Association for review by June 1 of each year (para. 8.01 (f)).
Organization and Management
5.02      Since the project largely supports ongoing activities of Govern
ment, organizational and staffing arrangements are generally in place. An
assurance was obtained at negotiations that as a condition of Board
Presentation Government would retain a Project Coordinator in the State
Planning Committee and would identify the managers in each of the agencies
with responsibilities for carrying out the project, and that a list of such
persons would be submitted to the Association. Project Managers would be
identified in the Ministry of Supply, Ministry of Industry, the Departments
of Irrigation, Evaluation, Agriculture and Livestock of the Ministry of
Agriculture and in the Vientiane Provincial Departments of Irrigation and
Public Works (para. 8.01 (g)). Likewise plans, survey and design work are
sufficiently advanced to allow procurement to commence soon after Board
approval in accordance with the projected schedule. The Irrigation,
Agricultural Production, Livestock Processing and Sugar Milling subprojects
would be implemented by various line agencies relatively independent of each
other. Details of implementing agency responsibilities have been outlined
in Chapter III and are given in more detail below for each of the
subprojects.
A. Small-Scale Irrigation Support
5.03      The Vientiane Provincial Authority would be responsible for
constructing the small schemes funded under the project, and would organize



- 22 -
and manage the works in the same manner as being done for schemes funded
under ARDP (Cr. 760-LA). Technical and logisticial support would be provided
by the Department of Irrigation of the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Department of Irrigation would ensure that construction material, equipment
and fuel, etc. would be supplied to the work siteas in accordance with work
programs. The pump repair component would be implemented by the Pump Repair
Workshop, which is located near Vientiane City and under the direction of
the Department of Irrigation. The workshop manager would be primarily
responsible for this component. Survey equipment provided under the project
would be used by provincial and municipal irrigation officers. Spare parts
and construction materials to be procured for the irrigation works would be
channeled through the Ministry of Su.pply, but until the Ministry of Supply
becomes fully operational, the Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and
Cooperatives would be primarily responsible for procurement and warehousing
of the goods. In subsequent years, primary responsibility for procurement
and warehousing would be handled by the Ministry of Supply, through bulk
purchasing and long-term negotiated contracts. The procedures for this
would be established by the experts to be funded by IFAD under the project.
The Import-Export Society of the Ministry of Commerce would, however, still
be responsible for the actual procurement process.
B. Crop Production Support
5.04      As described in paras. 3.08 to 3.13, this subproject would support
the production of rice and upland crops (primarily corn, sugarcane and
cassava), through the supply of agricultural inputs, support for agriculture
extension and applied research, mechanical cultivation of upland soils and
improved maintenance of feeder roads. Apart from the latter component, the
Ministry of Agriculture would have primary responsibility for
implementation. Road maintenance would be handled by the Vientiane
Provincial Authority. The following summarizes individual agency or
department responsibilities.
(a)  The Department of Agriculture has overall responsibility for pro-
gramming the supply of agricultural inputs and for agricultural
research. It would (i) prepare annual programs and budgets for
utilization of agricultural fertilizers and pesticides, identi-
fying source of funds; (ii), manage impleamentation of the IADP /1
through the Project Manager.  The latter will also continue to be
responsible for overall mornitoring of the rice intensification
program; (iii) provide overall supervision of implementation of
agricultural input supply program; and (iv) ensure supply of seed
and of planting material for cassava ancd sugarcane.
(b) The Provincial Department of Agriculture would be responsible for
(i) preparation of yearly plans for agricultural development in
the province; (ii) organization of input: distribution; (iii)
/1 IADP: Integrated Agricultural Development Prcject (see para. 3.12).



- 23 -
provision of extension advice to farmers; (iv) organization of
farmer groups and cooperatives; and (v) organization of pest
control services.
(c) Agency for Procurement of Raw Materials. This agency would be
responsible for contracting with cooperatives, private farmers
and state farms to grow maize and cassava for use in the feed
mill. The agency would also arrange for land preparation and
for contracting farmers either using its own equipment or
hiring equipment from the Agricultural Machinery Agency.
Costs of land preparation would be deducted from payment made
when the crop is delivered. The Agency would be responsible
for development of village collection centers for cassava and
corn financed under the Australian aid assistance project, and
for collection and delivery of corn and cassava. Agency
equipment may also be hired to farmers for transportation of
crops from the field to collection centers.
(d) Agricultural Machinery Agency. This agency operates tractor
pools and provides contract land cultivation for cooperatives
and individual farmers. Under the project the Agency would
provide contract cultivator services for upland crop cultiva-
tion, primarily corn and cassava for the Tha Ngone Feed Mill
(see paras. 5.04(c) and 5.06) and for sugarcane production.
The agency is responsible to the Department of Machinery of
the Ministry of Agriculture and would be responsible for
maintaining equipment and for determining the cost of
providing contract cultivation services. The Agency would be
responsible for providing details of the operating costs and
services to the State Planning Committee (see para. 5.01).
C. District Agricultural Road Maintenance
5.05      The agricultural road maintenance subcomponent would be
implemented by the Vientiane Provincial Department of Public Works, under
the direction and authority of the Ministry of Transport. Works supported
by the project would be carried out by five teams, each comprising a
qualified Road Engineer as Supervisor, surveyors, draftsmen, site foreman
and machine operators, all employees of the Department of Public Works, plus
manual labor as required and recruited locally. Staff for the repair teams
would be drawn from existing qualified technicians and administrative
personnel within the Department of Public Works, complemented by recruitment
among graduates of the Transport and Communications School at Sokpaluan, and
engineers returning from current overseas training courses. Work programs
would be compiled at the start of each dry season (October), and would
include, for each team, estimates of the lengths of roads to be repaired and
volumes of material required. Equipment maintenance would be the



-- 24 -
responsibility of the Provincial Public Works Department workshop at Kao
Liao, where a staff of 48 mechanics is employed; part of the input of tools
in this subcomponent would be devoted to improving service facilities at
this workshop. Parts for maintenance and repair of project equipment would
be obtained from the Ministry of Supply Parts Store as required, and this
input would be administered by the Ministry of Supply. Fuel and lubricants
would be supplied via normal provincial authority administration procedures.
D. Livestock Feed Processing Support
5.06      The production of animal feed under the project would be done at
the Tha Ngone Feed Mill which is located some 20 km from Vientiane City.  An
Agency of the Department of Livestock operates the mill and is responsible
for recovering costs of operation, including amortization of the plant.
Responsibility for raw material imports under the project would be that of
the Feed Mill Agency. The agency works closely with the Agency for Procure-
ment of Raw Materials (see para. 5.04(c) above) in determining the amount of
imports needed to complement locally procured raw materials. Under the
project, the Feed Mill Agency would be responsible for reporting to the
State Planning Committee on the local. and imported proportions of raw
material in the feed mix and on the demand and price for animal fieed from
the mill.
E. Sugar Processing Support
5.07      The Sugar Mill construction would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Industry. Upon construction, the operation of the mill would
become a responsibility of an Agency in the Ministry of Industry. The
Agency would coordinate growers' contracts and coordinate with the
Department of Agriculture in the provision of agricultural extension
services and make arrangements for transport of sugar cane to the mill.
The management and staffing of the Sugar Mill Agency would be appointed
prior to completion of the mill's construction (see para. 3.17).
F. Wareahousing
5.08      Implementation of this subproject would be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Supply. Initially, attention would be given to rehabilitation and
construction of warehouses and to development of procedures for bulk
procurement, equipment standardization and inventory control. Technical
experts to be provided under the project would play a key role in developing
the new procedures. Equipment and spaLre parts to be procured in connection
with the road maintenance component (see para. 5.05) would be handled by the
Ministry of Supply from the inception of the project, in order to 'help
establish the procedures. Thereafter, the Ministry of Supply would take over
responsibility for processing procuremeent requests from all ministries in
accordance with their growth in implementation capacity.



- 25 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Production
6.01      Agricultural production under the project would consist princi-
pally of rice, corn, cassava, sugar, pigs and poultry products. In view of
the deficits in meat and rice production, particularly in Vientiane
Province, it is not anticipated that there will be difficulty in marketing
the incremental output resulting from the project.
6.02      Paddy.  Incremental rice production would come from more intensive
cropping practices using increased agrochemical inputs, better extension
services, and expansion of dry-season cropping as the irrigation water
becomes available. Traditional rice production is of local unimproved
glutinous varieties. Land preparation takes place in May/June following the
first significant rains, transplanting is in July/August, and harvesting
November/December. Current yields of lowland rainfed paddy are estimated
at 1.3 tons per ha. Improved water control alone would increase yields to
at least 1.5 tons, and application of fertilizer to the nursery and some
pest control would result in a further increase to 1.7 tons per ha. It is
expected that application of an improved technology package including high
yielding varieties and 150 kg of fertilizer per ha would further increase
average yields to 2.5 tons in the wet season and 2.8 tons per ha in the dry
season. These yield increases are based on experience with the rice
intensification program currently supported by IDA funding. Under the
proposed project the limited technological package would be applied to about
95,000 ha by the third year (72,000 ha rainfed and 23,000 ha irrigated).
The full package would be applied to 22,000 ha (16,000 ha in the wet season
and 6,000 ha in the dry season). The total production increase resulting
from these inputs would be about 38,000 tons of paddy. This would amount to
about 4% of national production. More than half of the increase would be
produced in Vientiane Province which, with a population of 500,000, is the
principal rice deficit area of the country.
6.03      Corn and Cassava.  Corn and cassava are already produced within
the country. However, this production is almost entirely in scattered small
plots for human consumption in the case of corn and, in the case of cassava,
largely for domestic animal feed. Data on these activities are scarce, but
it has been estimated that country-wide about 25,000 ha of corn are grown,
producing about 34,000 tons. Cassava production is estimated at 50,000 tons
(dry matter) from less than 10,000 ha. However, because of the scattered
nature of corn and cassava production, plus the difficulties of transporta-
tion, the procurement agency for the Tha Ngone Feed Mill has been unable to
obtain adequate quantities of corn locally. Consequently some 700 tons of
corn are imported annually from Thailand, and unless local production is
increased rapidly, corn imports will need to be increased as the country's
existing, and planned intensive pig and poultry units come into full



-- 26 -
production. Under the project, contract land preparation and supply of
inputs to farmers would be provided to increase production. This coupled
with improved maintenance of agricultural feeder roads would provide access
for trucks of the Feed Mill½s procurement agency. Under the project, it is
anticipated that some 3,000 tons of corn and 5,600 tons of dried cassava
would be produced under contractual arrangements with the Feed Mill.
'Government has undertaken (see para. 3.15) to slow down the pace of estab-
lishing intensive livestock enterprises until the capacity to produce and
collect feed materials e.g. corn locally, improves to a point where raw
material imports can be greatly reduced.
6.04      Pigs.  The major users of pig feed are the Tha Ngone Pi:g Multipli-
cation Center, which now has a 600-sow unit, and the Nong Teng Pig Breeding
Center, which has about 100 sows. Feed demand in these centers alone is
expected to be in excess of 8,000 tons by 1986. At present, the pig multi-
plication center is producing at a rate of 700 weaned piglets per month, and
these are sold to state farms, individual farmers, cooperatives and differ-
ent ministries. Government is encouraging backyard production of pigs and
poultry in order to improve nutritional status and as an income supplement
for low paid public employees.  Because of the ban on importation of pig
meat, current per capita consumption is believed to be well below potential
consumption per capita of 18 kg per annum. This means that the Vientiane
Province alone, with an estimated population of 500,000, would have a
potential demand of 9,000 tons per arnum.  Assuming a finished pig of 90 kg
liveweight and 75% as carcass, 700 fi:nished pigs per month would roughly
amount to 750 tons of meat.  This would supply about 8% of potential demand
in Vientiane Province, and should not adversely affect prices.
Prices
6.05      Rice. The Government collects paddy in the form of land tax.  In
1982 about 75,000 tons were collected from this source, and an additional
115,000 tons were procured through the purchase by the Provincial Food
Procurement Agencies. The official paddy prices are about NK 5 per kg in
provincial centers and less in more outlying cente!rs, discounts being made
for transport cost. As a means to provide an additional inducement to sell
to the state agencies, in 1982, the Government instituted a barter system
for a wide range of consumer goods to exchange with paddy. For example,
bicycles were priced at about NK 7,000. At a price of NK 5 per kg of
paddy, this is equivalent to about 1,400 kg of paddy, i.e., about $200.
Similarly, sewing machines were priced at 2,600 kg of paddy, i.e., about
$370. However, the scarcity of these items, particularly in remote areas
apparently served to induce some sale of rice. Government rice purchases
are used for its military personnel and for sale to public servants. The
availability of rice at a subsidized price constitutes an important part of
public servants  income, in lieu of salary, which is set at a very low
level. Farmers are free to sell their surplus production on the free market
where prices are considerably higher, but corresponding prices of other
goods are also higher. Free market prices are generally similar to prices
in N.E. Thailand.



- 27 -
6.06      Corn and Cassava.  Corn and cassava produced under the project
would be purchased under contract by the Agency for Procurement of Raw
Materials (APRM) for the feed mill. This agency has been operating for
almost a year, and only small quantities were procured in 1982 at a price of
NK 5/kg of ccrn (grain) (NK 6.6/kg delivered to the feed mill). In 1983,
about NK 6/kg is being paid. Under the project, payment for machinery
services in land preparation would be deducted from the price paid for corn
and cassava. The primary difficulty for the Feed Mill procurement agency
has been to gain access to corn growing areas. Contracts are made with
growers, particularly cooperatives for the supply of raw materials and the
procurement agency has some flexibility to offer prices sufficient to induce
growers to produce and sell to the Feed Mill.
6.07      Pigs.  Current official prices of weaners sold at the Tha Ngone
Pig Multiplication Center are reported to be NK 612 per weaner of 12 kg
liveweight. This price is subsidized as an inducement to production, in
particular to backyard producers. The sale price of fat pigs is about NK
120 per kg liveweight. The open market price for weaners is reported to be
NK 1500 in Vientiane. This reflects the local scarcity of pig meat.
Financial Analysis - Enterprise Budgets
6.08      Selected farm investment models show attractive returns.  For the
purpose of illustration, three rice farm models and three pig fattening
models have been prepared.
6.09      Rice Production.  Experience to date with the rice intensification
program indicates that the returns from use of improved cropping practices,
especially when fertilizers are used in conjunction with irrigated paddy,
are significant. Based on farm models summarized in Annex 4, the net return
to farm labor is estimated to rise by about 11% with adoption of the limited
package and 30% with the full package. For the full package under irriga-
tion, the marketable surplus for a farm household cultivating 2 ha in the
wet and dry seasons is estimated at 2.6 tons. This represents a cash income
of NK 10,400 to NK 15,600 based on a farm price of NK 4 to NK 6 per kg.
This compares very favorably with employment incomes of NK 1,000 per month
which are typical of urban areas. Under rainfed conditions a typical farm
household now barely meets its subsistence needs. While the expected
production increase of 200 kg resulting from the limited package is small,
it is of major importance in ensuring adequate household food supplies.
6.11      Pig Production.  Three pig production models are summarized in
Annex 5, two comprising backyard production of groups of two weaners, and
the third a large (e.g., cooperative) unit fattening 300 animals per cycle.
Of the two backyard production models, Model 1 is based on use of purchased
feed which permits the attainment of a weight gain of 0.38 kg/day/pig, and a
slaughter weight of 90 kg in eight months. Model 2 assumes no use of



-- 28 -
purchased feed, slaughter weight of 80 kg and an average weight gain of only
0.18 kg/day/pig over a 15-month fattening period. The large-scale model is
based on a high level of technical efficiency, achieving a live weight gain
of almost 0.56 kg/day/pig. All three models show attractive rates of return
under the existing price structure ranging from 21 to 288%. It should be
noted, however, that the low input backyard production system (Model 2)
shows the greatest margin per animal even when the longer fattening period
is taken into account. Since the income obtained by the producer from Model
2, about NK 13,000 per year, represents a substantial supplement for most
households, and requires minimal capital outlays, it is expected that
backyard producers will prefer to adopt this production model. Because of
this high return, low cost system, the Bank has consistently promoted
backyard fattening of pigs. Intensive pig production was supported under
IDA Credit 760, primarily to multiply pigs for distribution to backyard
fattening units such as described in Model 2 (Annex 5).
Cost Recovery
6.11      In spite of the general subsistence level of farming and institu-
tional weakness of supporting government agencies, the level of cost
recovery from farmers receiving inputs is quite high given income levels.
Cost recovery for irrigation works is currently restricted to having farmer
beneficiaries pay for electricity used in operating pumping stations.  This
appears to be a realistic and practical level of recovery for Laos at its
present state of development. The Ministry of Agriculture, which handles
the distribution of fertilizers and mechanized farm equipment to farmers and
cooperatives, attempts to recover 100% of the cost of such goods. Repayment
is to be made in terms of paddy, and the record of repayment is reportedly
above 80%. This relatively high recovery rate can be largely attributed to
the small amounts of goods being handled, and to the close supervision given
to newly formed cooperatives. However, the main difficulties relate to lack
of standard procedures for rescheduling payments in years of poor crop yield
and in accounting for repayment in a way which allows recovery to be broken
out from the general administrative budget of the Ministry of Agriculture.
There are also questions relating to how the price is determined for goods
which have been obtained through grant funding or bilateral aid and how to
expand government assistance programs for the benefit of a wider range of
farmers. It will be important for Government to address these issues if the
high level of cost recovery is to continue as the program for distributing
inputs grows and if Government is to meet its increasing local recurrent
cost needs. An assurance was obtained at negotiations that Government shall
set and maintain prices for processedl feed, fertilizers, machinery services
for land preparation, and weaner pigs (10 to 15 kg liveweight) at levels
which reflect the financial costs to the relevant agencies of providing them
(para. 8.01(h)). Cost accounting for agencies supplying these items would
be strengthened under the project (para. 4.06) and details of these costs
and of prices charged during the prevrious year would be included in the
Annual Progress Report to be submitted by the State Planning Committee.



- 29 -
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01      Benefits.  The proposed project would contribute significantly to
the government objectives of increasing domestic food productici and
improving the balance of trade. It would enable Government to maintain the
momentum of its agricultural development, in particular the expansion of
food and animal feed production to meet local demands, by financing of high
priority inputs and by reducing organizational inefficiencies which hamper
the effective use of capital goods. The project would directly assist about
60,000 farm households, or more than 10% of the total. The majority of
rural households are dependent upon their own production for basic food
needs and have few alternative sources of income. As a result, they live at
a subsistence level in a country with an estimated per capita income of less
than $145 in 1980.
7.02      Impact on Production.  By the third year of the project, incremen-
tal paddy production would be expected to reach about 38,000 tons per year
and be valued at some $5.6 million. In addition, incremental production of
3,000 tons of corn, about 5,500 tons of dried cassava and 1,000 tons of
sugar valued at a total of $1.5 million would also have been achieved. Corn
and cassava would replace imported materials used in production of about
10,000 tons of concentrate feed for pig and poultry production. This would
permit the production of some 10,000 weaner pigs (10 to 15 kg live weight)
and 500,000 day-old chicks per annum. At full development, net foreign
exchange savings from incremental corn and sugar production would be about
$0.9 million. Cassava is not currently imported and rice is only currently
imported in limited commercial quantities. The import substitution value of
these commodities would be almost $3.9 million.
7.03      Impact on Employment.  The project would increase the overall
employment of farm labor, particularly during the dry season on irrigated
land.  Incremental labor requirements would range from 10 to 20 man-days per
hectare, depending upon the level of inputs used. Total incremental
requirements for crop production would amount to about 1.4 million mandays.
An estimated 185,000 man-days of labor would also be required for the
additional livestock production made possible by the project. Additional
labor requirements would be created in irrigation development and road
maintenance.
7.04      Impact on Government Operations.  The major thrust of the project,
parallel to its support of agricultural production, is its emphasis on
improvement of critical government operations. The establishment of an
effective warehousing and inventory control system related to agricultural
development activities will enable considerable savings to be made through
reduction in down time due to lack of parts, reduction in quantities of
parts and materials stored through elimination of storage of some items,
and reductions in delays in import of parts through faulty documentation and
contract procedures. The project would also lead to improved procedures



- 30 -
within the Ministry of Agriculture and its agencies for planning, budgeting
and accounting and assist in more etffective price setting and improved
financial viability of agricultural agencies.  Similarly assistance to the
Ministry of Finance and the NationaLl Bank of Laos would result in improved
accounting and auditing procedures, benefitting government operations as a
whole.
Justification
7.05      The six project components described i'n para. 3.04 can be looked
at as expanding agricultural production in three major fields, i.e.: (a)
increased rice production through irrigation development; (b) increased rice
and livestock feed production through agricultural extension, input supply,
improved land preparation and feed processing support and (c) increased
production of sugar through improved cultivation and expanded processing
capacity. The economic evaluation of the irrigation and sugar development
components, totalling $6.8 million or 32% of project cost, was done by
computing economic rates of return (ERR). For the rice and feed crop pro-
duction components, as well as for the support provided for livestock feed
mix production, totalling $5.3 million or 26% of project cost, benefits/cost
ratios were computed. The results of these analyses are given below. How-
ever, as described in para. 7.04 and Part III of the SAR, the project also
provides some $8.7 million or 42% of project cost (i) to provide improved
access to agricultural areas; (ii) to speed up the procurement and increase
the availability of agricultural inputs, spare parts etc.; (iii), to provide
a small amount of extension and research support and (iv) to repair
irrigation pumps. These elements of the project do not lend themselves to
conventional economic analysis, since neither the benefits likely to result
from changes, such as improvements in Government procedures, nor the speed
with which they would materialize, can be quantified with any accuracy.
For the pump repair component, the degree of repair needed would vary
greatly from pump to pump, making it difficult to quantify the benefits with
any accuracy.  However, since the pumps potentially serve some 20,000 ha,
but effectively operate on less than half of this area, the proposed repair
and maintenance costs would be more than offset over the project period by
an increase in production of about 200 kg of paddy/ha/year. This would be
readily attainable.
7.06      Economic Analysis.  In the economic analysis of the small-scale
irrigation component and for the analysis of the sugar production and
processing component, costs and benefits were valued in constant 1983
prices. Separate analyses were conducted for each of the three forms of
irrigation being assisted under the project, i.e. weir schemes, pumping
schemes and rehabilitation of existing schemes (see Annexes 7 and 8).  The
overall rate of return was determined to be 18%, with a range from 16% for
weirs to 20% for pumping schemes. The higher rates of return for pump
schemes reflect the experience that about 50% of the area served by pumps



- 31 -
can be irrigated in the dry season, compared with only about 30% for
gravity-fed schemes. The economic rate of return fo the sugar production
and processing component was estimated to be 19%.
7.07      The major factors which might reduce returns to the irrigation
investment are increases in the initial investment cost, poorer production
or a reduced value of rice. The irrigation schemes being constructed or
rehabilitated under the project are small, simple structures. Schemes
involving possible construction difficulties would be eliminated following
initial survey. Major increases in costs are unlikely and would have to
exceed 30% for the rate of return to fall below 10%. The results are more
sensitive to changes in yield. The basic yield assumptions are modest, and
are only slightly above levels achieved countrywide under the rice intensi-
fication program. Yields would have to be about 15% lower than projected,
i.e., about 2.1 tons/ha in the wet season and 2.4 tons/ha in the dry season,
in order to reduce the rate of return to 10%. This is considered unlikely.
Laos is at present a rice deficit country. Surplus production is not likely
in the immediate future but is considered feasible. A fall in value of
paddy of 10%, which might result from such a change in conditions, would
reduce the rate of return to the component to about 15%.
7.08      Benefit-Cost Analysis.  The rice intensification and upland feed
crop production components support the small ongoing programs of Government
to improve      rice production and to rapidly expand pork and poultry
production, would result in substantial improvements in the food situation
by increasing paddy production by 3% (100,000 tons) over the 3-year project
period, and by providing livestock feed sufficient for producing some 4,300
tons of pork. The value of incremental paddy and feed production at border
prices would amount to $14.7 million for paddy and $9.0 million for feed,
when processed into compound feed over the three-year project period (Annex
9). For the rice intensification component the project would finance
importation of inputs, the majority of which are short-term production
requirements, e.g. fertilizers, pesticides, fuel and spare parts, which
have an immediate payoff in a single crop season and which would complement
the support being provided under earlier IDA credits ($1.6 million) and
bilateral assistance ($1.1 million), totalling $2.7 million over the project
period. Production costs associated with the rice intensification program
during the project period are estimated to total $7.6 million, resulting in
a ratio of benefits to costs of 1.9. Similarly for the production of the
upland crops of maize and cassava for livestock feed, production is valued
at $2.45 million over the project period and associated costs would be $1.53
million.  This gives a benefit/cost ratio of 1.6.  Total costs associated
with producing feed over the project period would amount to about $8.27
million. This would result in an overall benefit/cost ratio from producing
and utilizing feed for intensive pig and poultry units of 1.1 (see Annex 9).



32 -
Project Risks
7.09      Because of the legacies of the recent civil strife in the country,
and its limited earlier development, projects in Laos are subject to a range
of implementation difficulties and risks. Throughout the preparation and
appraisal process these risks have lbeen a prime consideration, and the
design of the proposed project is largely determined by the need to reduce
them. The major risks relate to factors likely to delay implementation or
realization of benefits, i.e., implementation capacity, supply bottlenecks,
nonadoption of new technology; other risks are in technological uncertain-
ties and failure of farmers to effectively adopt new technology or activi-
ties. A longer term risk relates to the ability of the Government to
provide foreign exchange to met recurrent costs.
7.10      The steps taken to minimize the impact of these risks are as
follows:
(a) Implementation capacity. Quantitative targets, e.g., in
irrigation development, rice intensification and upland crop
development, are modest, and do not represent major growth
of the past rate of expansion. In all these areas technical
assistance is being supplied for implemnentation from other
sources, e.g., UNDP funding for management of the rice
intensification program and in sugar crop development,
Australian assistance for corn and cassava development, and
Vietnamese assistance in irrigation scheme design;
(b) Supply bottlenecks. The technical assistance input of the
proposed project is primarily directed at this problem, and
the project would also finance the construction and equipment
of warehouses necessary to improve the purchase, storage and
delivery of project inputs;
(c) Technology. Agricultural research capacity in Laos is limited.
The project provides support in materials and equipment to the
UNDP funded technical assistance under IADP which will develop
three agricultural stations. In the interim, the field
activities of the proposed project are based on well tried
technology, and yield assumptions are modest.  These activities
are supported by separately funded technical assistance inputs
(as in (a));
(d) Slow rate of adoption. The rice intensification and upland
crop programs would be concentrated in areas with adequate
extension coverage to ensure satisfactory back-up services.
Annual reporting and supervision would specifically focus
on pricing of major inputs and outputs, to ensure that
charges for services and inputs cover costs, and that output
prices provide adequate producer incentives; and



- 33 -
(e) Recurrent costs. Foreign exchange shortages will persist in
Laos for some years to come and it must be anticipated that
Government will continue to face difficulties in meeting both
foreign and local recurrent costs. Since the project has been
designed primarily to strengthen and expand on prcject activi-
ties in which Government is already involved, the incremental
recurrent costs for the Government have been minimized. Also by
supporting local production of feed grain and sugar, this pro-
ject would provide import savings of some $0.9 million annually
at full development. To offset difficulties in meeting local
recurrent costs, Government has recently introduced a new
budgetary procedure whereby counterpart funds are appropriated
on a project by project basis, to ensure such funds will be made
available to those priority projects for which Government has
obtained external financing.
7.11      The bulk of project works will be in the Vientiane Plain and
in the more accessible and populated areas of the south. The location of
small irrigation schemes would be subject to IDA's approval before the
commencement of works. These precautions would limit the risk of security
problems affecting project implementation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
8.01      The following special agreements were obtained at negotiations:
(a) The location and designs of irrigaton works would be approved
by the Bank prior to the commencement of works by November 1,
of each year (para. 3.06);
(b) Disbursements against raw material imports would be contingent on
a satisfactory increase in the proportion of locally produced raw
material in the feed mix (para. 3.15);
(c) The type and specifications of the sugar mill would be mutually
acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower, and the management and
staff of the sugar mill would be appointed prior to completion of
the millTs installation (para. 3.17);
(d) The three long-term experts in warehouse management, budgeting
and accounting and sugarcane production would be in place not
later than March 31, 1984 (para. 3.19);
(e) Government would submit annual audit reports to IDA for the
project by June 30 of each year including audit reports on the
operations of the revolving fund (para. 4.06);



- 34 -
(f) The State Planning Committee would provide annual work programs
and budgets for review by supervision missions for each of the
components of the project by November 1 of each year, and annual
progress reports would be submitted to the Association for review
by June 1 of each year (para. 5.01);
(g) Government would retain a Project Coordinator in the State
Planning Committee and would identify the managers in each of
the agencies with responsibilities for carrying out the project,
and a list of such persons would be submitted to the
Association (para. 5.02); and
(h)  Government would set and maintain prices for processed feed,
fertilizers, machinery services for land preparation, and
weaner pigs at levels which reflect the financial costs of the
relevant agencies providing them (para. 6.12).
8.02      As a condition of effectiveness an assurance was obtained that
Government would open a Special Account in a banking institution acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.05).
8.03      Cross-effectiveness and cross-default clauses would be included in
the agreements of the respective cofinancing partners (para. 4.02).
8.04      With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 5.80 million ($6.21 million).
The Borrower would be the Lao People's Democratic Republic.



ANNEX I
- 35 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance: Fellowships, Study Tours, Training
and Specialist Assistance
Position                                                                         Cost      Proposed        Proposed
title                    Purpose                 Ministry         Duration       ($)      funding      administer-
(marn-months)              source      ing agency
Long-Term Technical Assistance
Budget Ana-    Develop procedures for pre-   Ministry of              24        160,000/a
lysis and       paring annual work programs   Agriculture                        15,0007S   UNDF             FAO
Work Pro-       and budget requests, and
gramming        analyzing budget submissions                                    175,000
Specialist
Warehouse       Establish system for inverr-  Ministry of             24        160,OOO/a
Management      torying, stocking and dis-    Supply                             20,00075 UNDP               FAO
Specialist      tributing spare parts,
equipment and agricultural                                     180,000
supplies
Sugar           Promote sugar production         Ministry of          24        160,000/a
Production      and research in conjunction   Agriculture                        20,00075 UNDP               FAO
Specialist      with requirements of sugar
facilities provided under                                       180,000
project
Subtotal                                                  535,000
Short-Term Technical Assistance
Standardiza-   Prepare guidelines for            Ministry of           8         64,000/a
tion            standardization of equip-        Agriculture   (different        20,0005 IFAD               Government
Specialist      ment and supplies procured                       specialists)
for agriculture (and other                                      84,000
sectors, as appropriate)
Computer        Develop computer program         Ministry of           3         24,000/a
Inventory       to facilitate operation of    Agriculture   (3 separate    15,0007b IFAD                     Government
Control         warehouses currently oper-                      visits)
Specialist      ated by Ministry of Agri-                                        39,000
culture (and possibly
Ministry of Supply)
Procurement    Develop long-term negotiated  Ministry of               6         48,000/a
Specialist      contracts for regular im-        Commerce        (various        10,0007C   IFAD             Government
ports of major commodities    (Export           visits)
Import                          58,000
Society) in
conjunction
with BCEL
Auditing and   Strengthen the audit capa-    Ministry of               9         72,000/a
Accounting      city in the Ministry of          Finance,                        10,000/b IPAD               Government
Specialists    Finance and the accounting    National Bank
capability in the National    of Laos and                        82,000
Bank of Laos, and the imple-  Ministry of
mentating agencies               Agriculture
Subtotal                                                  263,000
Training /c
Study tours    Develop expertise in agri-    Ministry of
cultural research and pro-    Agriculture                                  UNDP/IFAD
duction, and in administra-
tion (budgeting etc.)
Fellowships    Develop expertise in agri-    Ministry of
In-service      cultural research and pro-    Agriculture
duction, and in administra-
tion (budgeting etc.)
Subtotal                                                  346,420
Total Technical Assistance                              1,144,420
/a  Fees and Salaries:  Averaging $6,700/mar-month for long-term experts and $8,000/man-month for short-
term experts.
/b  Overheads and travel.
T7  Average Training Costs:  Study tours $2,000/tour (14 days); Fellowships $2,500/man-month; In-service
$83/man-month.



ANNEX 2
- 36 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Phasing of Total Project Costs /a
($ million)
Item                                   1983     1984      1985      1986     Total
Irrigation Project Support
Scheme development and
rehabilitation                    0.96      1.56      1.94      1.01     5.48
Pump repair and maintenance          0.20     0.40      0.40      0.21      1.22
Subtotal                          1.16      1.97      2.34      1.23     6.69
Agricultural Production Support
Rice intensification                 0.19     0.52      1.48      0.12     2.32
Upland crop support                  0.10     0.26      0.21      0.25      0.81
Research and extension               0.16,    0.14      0.05         -      0.35
Subtotal                          0.45      0.92      L.74     0.37      3.48
District Agricultural Roads                -    1.29      0.50      0.50      2.28
Livestock Feed Processing Support
Raw material supply                  0.38     0.41      0.33         -      1.12
Equipment and maintenance            0.63     0.33      0.14         -      1.09
Subtotal                          1.01      0.73      0.47         -     2.21
Sugarcane Processing Support              -     0.10      1.05      0.15      1.30
Material and Parts Warehousing
and Inventory Support
Warehousing rehab. and con-
struction                            -      0.52      0.76     0.59      1.86
Warehouse equipment                     -     0.46      0.62      0.76     1.84
Subtotal                             -      0.97      1.38     1.35      3.70
Technical Assistance                    -     0.46      0.57      0.11    1.14
Total Base Cost                   2.62      6.44      8.05      3.70    20.81
Physical contingencies               0.13     0.22      0.30      0.16     0.81
Price contingencies                 0.12      0.69      1.50      0.85     3.16
Total                             2.88      7.35      9.84      4.71    24.78
/a Discrepancies due to rounding.



ANNEX 3
- 37 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
($ million)
IDA fiscal year         Cumulative Semester Disbursement         Total /a
and semester             IDA          IFAD      OPEC Fund    disbursement
FY 84
First                  0.12          0.15         0.06           0.38           2
Second                 0.31          0.37         0.16          0.97           5
FY 85
First                  0.62          0.74         0.31           1.92          10
Second                 1.24          1.48         0.62           3.85         20
FY 86
First                  2.17          2.58         0.90           6.54         35
Second                 3.41          4.06         1.71          10.57         55
FY 87
First                  4.66          5.54         2.33          14.42         75
Second                 5.59          6.64         2.80          17.30         90
FY 88
First                  6.21          7.38         3.11          19.22        100
/a  UNDP would disburse $0.86 million in conjunction with the project under
the Integrated Agricultural Development Project (LAO/82/011).



-38-                                   ANNEX 4
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPLY PROJECT
Farm Models for Rice Intensification Program
Rainfed                      Irrigated
Item                                             Limited package       Full package
Without  Limited  Without   With    Without   With
Cropping pattern /a           project  package  project  project  project  project
Wet season
Paddy area (ha)                1.4       1.4      1.4       1.4       1.4       1.4
Yield (ton/ha)                1.35       1.5      1.5       1.7       1.5       2.5
Dry season
Paddy area (ha)                  -         -      0.4       0.4       0.6       0.6
Yield (ton/ha)                   -         -       1.7      1.9       1.7       2.8
Total production (kg)          1,890    2,100    2,780    3,140    3,150    5,180
Agricultural tax (kg paddy)/b  112         112       140      140       140       140
Inputs (paddy equiv.)
Seed /c                         63        63       81        81       108      126
Fertilizer /d                    -         6        -         7         -      360
Pesticides                       -        18        -        23         -        30
Draft animals /e               280       280      400       400       460       460
Subtotal                    343      367       481       511       568      976
Net production (kg)            1,435    1,621    2,159    2,489    2,442    4,064
Family labor (man-days) |f       154       168       198      216       220       260
Net return per man-day
(kg paddy)                     9.3      9.6      10.9      11.5      11.1     15.6
X increase with project                   11                 11                  31
Subsistence requirement
(kg paddy)                   1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500    1,500
Surplus                          (65)      121       659      989       942    2,564
/a  Limited package comprises:  fertilizer on nursery (100 kg 16:20:0/ha) and
pesticide.  Full package comprises:  improved seed, fertilizer (50 kg urea
and 100 kg 16:20:0) and pesticide.
/b  Agricultural tax is imposed on individual farmers and cooperatives as a form
of land tax, and the tax rate is calculated based on the wet-season land
productivity as follows:
(a)  100 kg paddy per ha for wet-season production in excess of 1.6 tons per
ha;
(b)  80 kg paddy per ha for wet-season production between 1.3 and 1.6 tons
per ha; and
(c)  60 kg paddy per ha for wet-season production less than 1.3 tons per ha.
No tax is imposed on dry-season cropping potential.
/c  Seeds estimated at 45 kg/ha without project and limited package.  Full pack-
age assumes a seeding rate of 35 kg/ha of seed valued at 1.5 times the value
of paddy.
/d  Fertilizer usually sold in kind to farmers at a rate of 1 kg fertilizer per
kg paddy.
/e  Draft animals - rental estimated at the rate of 200 kg per ha for wet season
and 300 kg/ha for dry season.
_f  Seasonal labor requirement estimated as follows:
Without project - 110 manr-days,
Limited package - 120 manr-days, and
Full package    - 130 man-days.



- 39 -                                ANNEX 5
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPLY PROJECT
Farm Models for Pig Fattening Farms /a
Model 1           Model 2           Model 3
Number of weaners purchased            2                 2               300
Fattening period (days)             240                450               160
Live weight at slaughter (kg)         90                80                90
Mortality rate (%)                   1.7                 5                 2
Model 1 /b        Model 2 /b        Model 3 /b
Period Period/c Period Period/c Period Period/c
1      2-20       1      2-20       1       2-20
--------------- (in '000 kips) ----------------
Value of sale                    -       21.2       -      16.0          -   3,175
Investment Cost
Purchase of weaners            1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9        288     288
Pig house                      3.0      -        2.0      0.1      5,250     150
Operating Cost
Feed                          12.1    12.1       0.6      0.6      1,179   1,179
Other /d                       0.3      0.3      0.1      0.1        104     104
Subtotal                   17.3    14.3       4.6      2.7     6,821   1,721
Net Benefit               -17.3     6.9      -4.6    13.3    -6,821   1,454
Rate of return (%)                         40               288                 21
/a  For details, see Working Paper 4, Table 9, pages 1-3.
/b  Model I represents a farmer with two well-housed pigs for fattening.  The
farm uses mainly purchased feed and maintenance on the cement structured
pig house is very small.
Model 2 represents a traditional farmer with two pigs for fattening. The
farm uses mainly household waste.
Model 3 represents a state farm fattening unit with some 300 pigs for
fattening and using purchased compound feed.
/c  A period refers to the fattening period of the production cycle expressed
in days as described above.
/d  Includes costs for veterinary services, utilities and labor.



- 40 -                                  ANNEX 6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPLY PROJECT
Commodity Prices UJsed in Economic Analysis
($)
Commodity                                       1983          1985           1990 onward
Paddy
5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok                    312            321               434
Glutinous, c.i.f. Thanaleng /a                 264           271               345
Paddy, c.i.f. Thanaleng /b                    145            149               190
Corn
World price, f.o.b. Gulf ports                 124           128               145
World price, c.i.f. Thanaleng /c               176           181               200
Cassava /d                                        88            91               100
Sugar
f.o.b. Caribbean                                -            372               372
c.i.f. Thanaleng /e                              -           432               432
/a  0.7 times 5% brokens plus $40/ton transport cost to Thanaleng.
/b 0.55 times glutinous.
/c c.i.f. price = 10% above world price + $40.
/d Price = 0.5 times price of corn.
/e  Sugar = world price + $60 transport to Thanaleng,



ANNEX 7
- 41 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Summary of Economic Analysis by Type of Irrigation Scheme
Type of scheme
Weir        Pumping         Rehabilitation
Average area served (ha)                     175           300               130
Cropping intensity without project (Z)    100              100               100
Cropping intensity with project (%)          133           150               133
Investment cost per hectare ($'000)          1.1           1.0               1.0
Economic rate of return (%)                 16.4          20.3              17.9
With 10% higher yields (%)                21.3          25.6              23.2
With 10% higher investment costs (%)   14.9             16.8              16.2
With 10% higher price (%)                 13.5          16.9              14.7



ANNEX 8
- 42 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
/a
Weir Irrigation Scheme - Incremental Costs and Benefits /b
($)
Total                      Net
Project   Investment    Incremental costs    incremen-  Incremental  incremental
year      costs      Materials  Labor  O&M  tal costs    benefits        benefits
1        75,300           -                                             (75,300)
2        75,300           -               -         -            -      (75,300)
3        37,650       8,632   2,280  2,280   13,192        27,680       (23,162)
4              -     14,578   4,344  2,280   21,202        49,810        28,608
5                    17,944   4,890  2,280   25,114        61,740        36,626
6-20                  17,944   4,890  2,280   25,,114       65,170        40,056
/a 175 ha.
/b Assumptions underlying the analysis.
1. Project Life: 20 years with full development reached in project year 5.
2.  Shadow exchange rate of NK 70 to $1.00 as against the offLcial exchange
rate of NK 10 to $1.00 and the preferentiaLl rate of NK 35 to $1.00, and
free market rate of NK 100 to $1.00.
3.  Project Costs:  Cost estimates are incremental, net of taxes and allow-
ances for inflation during the project period. Labor has been costed at
NK 35 per day (i.e., $0.50 per day). Irrigation is assumed to begin in
Year 3. In Year 5 it is assumed that whole area served is cropped to
rice in the wet season and that the full package of technology is
applied. Similarly, in the dry season, one third of the area is assumed
to be cropped in Year 5 and using the full technology package. Produc-
tion of other crops has not been assumed, although some sc:hemes are
within easy reach of Vientiane and it is anticipated that some vegetable
production would be undertaken.



ANNEX 9
- 43 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPLY PROJECT
Crop and Feed Production Components
Summary of Costs and Benefits - Three-Year Project Period
($'000)
Rice    Maize/Cassava    Livestock Feed
Value of Production                  14,700        2,446             8,976 /a
Costs                                 7,596        1,529             8,272
Net Benefits                          6,918          917               704
Ratio:  Benefits/Costs                 1.91         1.60              1.09
/a c.i.f. Vientiane price of finished feed computed at $400/ton.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
- 44 -
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
Working Paper 1: Irrigation Project Support
Table 1:   Project Cost
Table 2:   Medium Scale Irrigation Works Program
Table 3:   Irrigation Pump Repair Program
Table 4:   Survey and Design Equipment
Table 5:   Construction Equipmen,t Requirements
Table 6:   Construction Equipment Fuel and Lubricant Requirements
Table 7:   Analysis of Material Costs by Scheme Type
Table 8:   Material and Equipment Operation Costs by Scheme
Table 9:   Implementation Schedule
Table 10:  Increase in Irrigated Area
Table 11:  Procurement by Scheme (Foreign Exchange)
Table 12:  Project Cost Summary and Disbursement Schedule
Table 13:  Rice Production Cost
Table 14:  Rice Crop Margins per Hectare
Table 15:  Farm Models for Rice Intensification Program
Table 16:  Commodity Prices Used in Economic Analysis
Table 17:  Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits by Type of
Irrigation Scheme
Table 18:  Incremental Production Scheme - Weir Scheme
Table 19:  Economic Costs and Benefits - Weir Scheme
Table 20:  Incremental Production - Pump Scheme
Table 21:  Economic Costs and Benefits - Pump Scheme
Table 22:  Incremental Production - Rehabilitation
Table 23:  Economic Costs and Benefits - Rehabilitation Scheme
Attachment 1:  Assumptions and Basic Data used in Preparing
Working Paper 1
Working Paper No. 2:
Table 1:  Crop Production Support Component - Cost Summary
Table 2:  Crop Production Support - Total Cost by Year
Table 3:  Crop Production Support Component - Financing
Table 4:  Rice Intensification Program:  Area Covered by Year
Table 5:  Farm Models for Rice Intensification Program
Table 6:  Upland Crop Production Support Requirements by Crop
Table 7:  Estimated Production Costs for Upland Crops
Table 8:  Gross Margins to Upland Crop Production



ANNEX 10
Page 2
- 45 -
Table 9: Crop Production Support Components - Summary of
Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Materials and Equipment to be Financed for
LAO/82/011
Attachment 1:
Table 1: Upland Crops Production Support - Information Requested
Working Paper 3:  District Agricultural Roads
Table 1:  Equipment Requirements
Table 2:  Disbursement Schedule
Table 3:  Implementation Schedule
Table 4:  Fuel Consumption
Attachment 1:  Assumption and Basic Data Used in Preparing
Working Paper 3
Working Paper 4:  Livestock Feed Processing Support
Table 1:        Number of Pigs and Poultry
Table 2:        Feed Requirements
Table 3:        Feed Component Requirement for First Priority Demand
Table 4:        Cost of Domestic Raw Material
Table 5, p. 1:  Cost of Imported Raw Materials
Table 5, p. 2:  Construction Cost of Small Processing Plants -
Bran Oil Extractor, Leucaena Leaf
Crusher and Limestone Crusher
Table 5, p. 3:  Cost of Spare Parts, Fuel and Lubricants
Table 6:        Formulation of Principal Existing Rations
Table 7:        Estimated Production of Cassava in the 13 Provinces of
Lao PDR in 1977 and 1979
Table 8:        Processed Feed Price - Ex-mill
Table 9: p. 1:  Farm Budget - Pig Fattening:  System 1
Table 9, p. 2:  Farm Budget - Pig Fattening:  System 2
Table 9, p. 3:  Farm Budget - Pig Fattening:  System 3
Table 10:       Feedmill Agency - Projected Income Statement
Table 11: p. 1:  Project Cost
Table 11: p. 2: Project Cost Summary
p. 3: Disbursement Schedule
Table 12:       Project Financing
Table 13:       Feed Mill - List of Spare Parts
Annex 1: Raw Materials Produced in Laos
Working Paper 5: Sugarcane Processing Support
Table 1: Phasing of Sugar Mill Component
Table 2: Project Costs (Technical Assistance)



ANNEX 10
Page 3
- 46 -
Table 3: Project Costs
Table 4: Economic Analysis - Cost Streams
Annex 1: Stigar Mill Requirements
Annex 2: Terms of Reference
Annex 3: Draft Specifications for Turn Key Contract
Annex 4: A Comparison of Extensive and Intensive Cane Production
in Lao PDR
Working Paper 6: Material and Parts Warehousing and Inventory Support
Table 1:  Warehouse and Inventory Support:  Project Location
Table 2:  Warehouse and Invenl:ory Support:  Project Costs
Table 3:  Warehouse and Inventory Support:  Investment Support
Table 4:  Warehouse Equipment Fuel Consumption
Table 5:  Warehouse and Inventory Support:  Implementation
Schedule.
Attachment 1:  Assumptions and Basic Data Used in Preparing
Working Paper 6.
Working Paper 7: Technical Assistance
Annex 1:  TOR Coordinator/Warehouse Management Specialist
Annex 2:  TOR Specialist in Computerized Inventory Control
Annex 3:  TOR Standardization Specialists
Annex 4:  TOR Procurement Specialists
Annex 5:  TOR Budget Analysis and Work Programming Specialist
Annex 6:  TOR Sugarcane Specialist
Table 1: Technical Assistance: fellowships, study tours, training
and specialist assistance
Table 2:  Technical Assistance Financing
Project Document: UNDP Integrated Agricultural Development Project
Maps: WB16123 Vientiane Province
WB17124  Lao, People's Democratic Republic



_________________________                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  16123
ri   vt   ,  X   CHINA  X                       LAO  PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC                                                                            APRIL 1983
BURMA  K                                      ,PODCIN                                                                                RJC
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION SUPPORT PROJECT
VIENTIANE PROVINCE
?    MAPAREA   )                                                                                                                                                                            .
0,THAILAD .p\' 
T        .    5)            N                                                   _______NA  )  = PROJECT ROAD MAINTENANCE SECTIONS
KA             r-'. /DEOCRTlttV , I IET, NAM
I    - EAMPUCHRA3 PROJECT AREAS FOR MEDIUM SCALE IRRIGATION SCHEMES
AdS Dd.MA,WV SE.,1  o/KAMPU,H-'                          _                            a MAIN ROADS                   RIVERS
_____   )OTHER ROADS                       PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                     VIET   NAM
ALv  t /THA NGON FEED                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDA IES               <.
,MILL
;,I      dU,11>r,l-,.l <''r  ......... 1           '6/asi      f        f 61\  ./
MALA#SIA                                      / ,l
f r y     00   ' I,  S I N G A P O R E   N |
IDONESIA.
Th,s map has beem prepared by
The Wrrld barr s stat erclnoobly              5Iang  Vieng
f     readers SnObenculoncl  foree .'t hVngvengy//)A~> 
,rrt.r-a  .S   1 The  Wrrld Bark
;and mea Internatonat Fmnance  t([\   
Curyoratocn Tra denolnrubu ns       /      J        ./    \                          \(/                                                                                     /
-oe d hre b-uda,-es show-
PFr  m o rt -int /ly  -n th.  (             5
pert Thy Worl banc and th/'
C-.~~~~~~~~~~.
~~~~~~~p~ ~ ~~(
.5soch bILMdTE   y NG                                                                                                          39 4/           6       75
/    J. , / S                       Phonh HongsX A    ~~~  V I E N T I A N E   P R O VIN CE  J                                     
t  J  I       tWt4\                            \             a~~~~~~~~~~~~urk NaM                                             kxano
J   t Sa Na Kham                                     -nVI~~~~~~~~~~~VENTIANE| 
THAILAND                                                       _____________IOER               _ _
oVF                       ~~~~~~~T H A I L A N D                            KIOEES4 '                   0      4        0      7 
MILES 0        10        20        30        40
/                  "./                                                                                    11030



I                                                                                                                    I



260
-22''\             Ah9                                                                                             ''        "    y=
220 a
W. S-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6--
2C,,'                                                       .0 ,mJ.I
EX~~~~~~~~~IET  NPAME OD t(<tL    
LAOADOPES  UDEMOCOSRUCTION ORBEINGUPGAE  BLI
AGRICULTURAL PROVINCIALRODUCTION  SUPPORT
- hELEVATIONALBUDAIS' M   -.... Ha)  :
ILtl-   ERsIi    <XJ T!NPAE RASw   
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To h0l E'0<9 9       ~g                                D,
RIVEPS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
14' .DEMOCRATIC  KAMPUCHEA                                     . 0 De           - -
_~~~~~~~   ~     ~~      ~       ~      ~~~~~                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Inooo IT'"  'o 'l°So D X 



