OFFICIAL     CREDIT NUMBER 1395 LA
OCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Production Support Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                        /        1984


﻿CREDIT NDMBER 1395 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       /0       1984, between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRAT      -PUBLIC (1r    nafter called the Bor-
rower) and INTERNATIO -L DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for (i) a
loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to approximately seven million dollars ($7,000,000) to assist in
financing the Project, and (ii) a grant (hereinafter called the
Fund Grant) in an amount equivalent to approximately three
hundred ninety thousand dollars ($390,000), to assist further in
financing the Project; in each case on the terms and conditions
set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Financing
Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund intends to appoint the Association as Coopera-
ting Institution to administer the Fund Loan and Fund Grant and
the Association is prepared to accept such appointment;
(D) the Borrower has applied to the OPEC Fund for Interna-
tional Development (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund) for a loan
(hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent
to three million one hundred ten thousand dollars ($3,110,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the OPEC Fund Loan
Agreement) between the Borrower and the OPEC Fund; and
(E) the Borrower intends to enter into two agreements
(hereinafter called the Project Documents) with the United
Nations Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) and the
Food and Agriculture Organization (hereinafter called FAO)
whereby FAO will agree to provide the Borrower the long-term
specialists for Part G.1 of the Project and UNDP will agree to
provide funds (hereinafter called the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to approximately eight hundred sixty thousand dollars
($860,000) to assist in the financing of (i) such technical
assistance and (ii) training under Part G.2 of the Project, all
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Project Documents; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fund Loan Account" means the account in respect of the
Fund Loan established under the Financing Agreement;
(b)  "Fund Grant Account" means the account established in
respect of the Fund Grant under the Financing Agreement; and
(c) "Special Account" means the account to be opened and
thereafter maintained pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 5,800,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of Section 2.02 (a)
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of the
Project, open and thereafter maintain, in United States dollars,
a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1993, and ending April 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-4-
on April 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit, Fund Loan and Fund Grant
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Financing Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan and Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account, the Fund Loan Account and the Fund Grant Account,
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
and with the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, the Fund
Loan and the Fund Grant set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further
agreement between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account, the Fund Loan Account and the
Fund Grant Account, as the case may be, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association and the Fund shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit, the Fund Loan or the Fund Grant, the
Borrower shall deliver to the Association a written application
in such form and containing such statements and agreements as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications
for withdrawal, with the necessary documentation as hereinafter
provided, shall, except as the Borrower, the As3ociation and the
Fund shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures under the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished,
to the Association such documents and other evidence in support


﻿- 5 -
of the application as the Association or the Fund shall reason-
ably request, whether before or after the Association shall have
approved any withdrawal requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account, the Fund Loan Account or the
Fund Grant Account, as the case may be, the amount applied for
and that such amount is to be used only for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.04. Each application made in respect of expen-
ditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Fund Loan or the Fund Grant only shall be deemed to be a request
to withdraw funds from the Credit Account, the Fund Loan Account
or the Fund Grant Account only, as the case may be.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall: (i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account to or on the order of the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Development
Credit Agreement; or (ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has
received an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan Account
or the Fund Grant Account, as the case may be, in the aggregate
amount specified in such notice and that the amount to be
withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account or Fund Grant Account, as
the case may be, is eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, the Association may, on behalf of and for the account of
the Fund, enter into special commitments to pay amounts, out of
the proceeds of the Fund Loan, to the Borrower or others in
respect of the cost of goods required by the Project, subject to
the provisions of this Agreement concerning the allocation and
apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan. The Fund has
advised the Association that any such special commitment shall,
once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an obligation
on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any subsequent
suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount to be
disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfillment of
such special commitment.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association:
(a) retain a Project Coordinator within the Borrower's
State Planning Committee; and
(b) appoint, or cause to be appointed, in a timely manner
and prior to completion of the construction of the mill under
Part E of the Project, management and staff, appropriate in
qualification and number, for the operation thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) retain the special-
ists listed in paragraph A to the Annex to Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be provided by FAO, whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) employ a consultancy
firm to provide the specialists listed in paragraph B to the
Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, whose selection, qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association and the Fund in accordance
with the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
(b) The Borrower shall retain the specialists listed in
paragraph A to the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement not


﻿- 7 -
later than March 31, 1984, or such other date as the Borrower and
the Association shall agree.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Fund Loan or the Fund Grant to be
used exclusively for the purpcses of the Project.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and work and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Fund Loan or the Fund Grant,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Asso-
ciation's and the Fund's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Fund Loan
or the Fund Grant and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the pro!eeds of the
Credit, the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant,and the goods and ser-
vices financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.


﻿- 8 -
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishmment of
the purposes of the Credit, the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 4.07. Without any limitation or restriction upon its
obligations under Section 4.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall, through its State Planning Committee, furnish to the
Association for its approval not later than April 1, 1984, or
such other date as the Association may otherwise agree, and each
November 1 thereafter, (a) plans and designs detailing irrigation
works, including the proposed locations thereof, to be included
under Part A.1 of the Project for the succeeding twelve month
period, and (b) annual work programs and budgets for Parts A
through F of the Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accor-
dance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting prac-
tices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts


﻿-9-
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's and the Fund's
representatives to examine such records,
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the financial statements
and the accounts referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section 5.01 and the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association and the Fund, as
soon as available, but in any case not later than 6 months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account, and the proceeds of the
Fund Loan withdrawn from the Fund Loan Account, on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said separate accounts, records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter
maintain  prices   for  processed  feed, fertilizers, machinery
services for land preparation and weaner pigs at levels which
shall enable the agencies of the Borrower responsible for the
provision of such goods and services to recover the financial
costs thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿10 -
(a) The OPEC Fund Loan Agreement shall have failed to
become effective by February 1, 1984, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan (including the
Fund Loan, the Fund Grant, the OPEC Fund Loan
or the UNDP Grant) made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b)(i)A of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b)(i)B of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Financing Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan and Fund Grant
pursuant to the Financing Agreement (other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has
appointed   the  Association   as  Cooperating   Institution  to
administer the Fund Loan and Fund Grant on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association;
(b) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Project Documents has been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary governmental action and all other conditions precedent
to the effectiveness of the UNDP Grant pursuant to the Project
Documents (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, if
applicable), have been duly fulfilled; and
(c) the Special Account has been established on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
Section 7.02. The date,           ./0,)     1984, is hereby
specified for the purposes of Sec o 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.03. If (i) the Financing Agreement shall have come
into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement shall
have failed to come into force and effect by the date specified
in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date established by
the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions, or (ii) the entire principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which shall
have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Financing Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 12.04 and 12.05 of the General
Conditions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to
be, cr to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent


﻿- 12 -
required for the purpose of implementing the Financing Agreement
and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual interest to the
parties thereunder, subject to such modifications of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower,
the Association and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.04. If (i) the Financing Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated, or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution
under the Financing Agreement has terminated, the provisions of
this Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund
Loan and Fund Grant, forthwith terminate; provided, however, that
in the case described in the foregoing clause (ii) such termina-
tion shall apply only to the responsibilities of the Association
as such Cooperating Institution.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary of State for Finance
Ministry of Finance
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Vientiane
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Vientiane,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, as of the day and year first
above written.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice Pr   dent
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit, the Fund Loan
and the Fund Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Fund Loan and the
Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit, the Fund
Loan and the Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for itr,s so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of    Amount of   Amount of
Credit       Fund Loan   Fund Grant    % of
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated    Expendi-
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   tures
in SDR        in SDR       in SDR      to be
Category      Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) Financed
(1) Vehicles,                                        ) 100% of
equipment,                                       ) foreign
spare parts,                                     ) expendi-
materials,                                       ) tures,
fuels and                                        ) 100% of
lubricants                                       ) local ex-
) penditures
(a) under       -         3,020,000       -      ) (ex-fac-
Part A                                       ) tory cost)
of the                                       ) and 75%
Project                                      ) of local
) expendi-
(b) under       -         2,020,000       -      ) tures for
Part B.1                                     ) other
of the                                       ) items pro-
Project                                      ) cured lo-
) cally
(c) under       780,000       -          -       )
Part D                                       )
of the                                       )
Project                                      )


﻿- 15 -
Amount of    Amount of   Amount of
Credit       Fund Loan   Fund Grant   % of
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated   Expendi-
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed   tures
in SDR       in SDR       in SDR     to be
Category      Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) Financed
(d) under       110,000      -           -      )
Part E.2                                    )
of the                                      )
Project                                     )
(e) under    1,720,000       -           -      )
Part F.2                                    )
of the                                      )
Project                                     )
(2) Raw mate-                                       )
rial im-                                        )
ports under                                     )
Part D of                                       )
the Project                                     )
for:                                            )
(a) first      330,000       -            -     ) 100% of
twelve                                      ) foreign
months                                      ) expendi-
of the                                      ) tures
Project                                     )
(b) second     380,000       -            -     )
twelve                                      )
months                                      )
of the                                      )
Project                                     )
(c) third      310,000       -            -     )
twelve                                      )
months                                      )
of the                                      )
Project                                     )


﻿- 16 -
Amount of    Amount of   Amount of
Credit       Fund Loan   Fund Grant     % of
Allocated    Allocated    Allocated     Expendi-
(Expressed   (Expressed   (Expressed    tures
in SDR       in SDR       in SDR       to be
CategorX      Equivalent) Equivalent) Equivalent) Financed
(3) Turn-key     1,050,000         -             -        100% of
contract                                               foreign
under                                                 expendi-
Part E.1                                            tures
of the                                             and 40%
Project                                              local ex-
pendi-
tures
(4) Initial         240,000     470,000        -       Amount
deposit                                            due under
in Special                                         Section
Account to                                         2.02 (b)
prefinance                                         of this
items under                                       Agree-
Category                                           ment
above
(5) Technical        -            -         370,000     100%
Assistance
(short-
term con-
sultants)
and train-
ing under
Part G of
the Project
(6) Unallocated    880,000    1,090,000        -
TOTAL 5,800,000    6,600,000     370,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit, the Fund Loan or the Fund Grant shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Fund Loan or the Fund Grant decreases or increases, the Associa-
tion may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policies of the Associa-
tion and the Fund.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) unless otherwise agreed by the Association, commencing
the date of this Agreement, and annually thereafter, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of Category (2) until the Asso-
ciation has notified the Borrower that such expenditures for the
succeeding twelve month period are eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the Borrower's and the
Association's agreement that the proportion of locally produced
raw materials included in the feed mix utilized for the Tha Ngone
Feed Mill for the preceding twelve month period are at appro-
priate levels and that the proportions of locally produced raw
materials planned for use in the feed mix for the succeeding
twelve month period are at appropriate level; and
(c) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of Categories
(1) (d) and (3) until the Association has notified the Borrower


﻿- 18 -
that sucl, expenditures are eligible for financing out of the
proceeds -f   the  Credit pursuant to the     Borrower's and the
Associat!n's agreement that the specifications for the sugar
processing facility included in Part E.1 of the Project are
mutually acceptable.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, and without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement, if the Association
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit or the
Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) cor-
respondingly reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit or the
Fund Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, provided, however, that no such reallocation of
proceeds of the Fund Grant shall be made from Category (5); and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Fund Loan and the Fund Grant, and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement or of the Fund under the Financing Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and/or the Fund
Loan and/or the Fund Grant as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit and/or the Fund LDan and/or the Fund Grant.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Small-Scale Irrigation Support
1.   Construction  of   small-scale  irrigation  schemes   of
about 100 to 300 ha each covering a total area of about 3,600 ha
in Vientiane, Khammouane, Savannakhet, Saravane and Champassak
Provinces.
2.   Provision of repair and maintenance support for about
1,200 existing small pumps.
Part B:   Agricultural Production Support
1.   Provision of agricultural inputs and small-scale farm
equipment.
2.   Provision of cultivation equipment and operation and
maintenance support for cultivation of crops in upland areas in
Vientiane Province.
Part C:   District Agricultural Road Maintenance
Provision of equipment, spare parts and supplies for main-
tenance of district agricultural roads in Vientiane Province.
Part D:   Livestock Feed Processing Support
Provision of small-scale specialized processing equipment
and raw material imports for feed mixes required for the Tha
Ngone Feedmill.
Part E:   Sugar Cane Production and Processing Support
1.   Establishment   of  a   small-scale   sugar  processing
facility in Vientiane Province.
2.   Provision of equipment and vehicles for the operation
of the facility included in Part E.1.


﻿- 20 -
Part F:   Materials and Parts Warehousing and Inventory Support
1.   Construction of about 8 new warehouses and the rehabi-
litation of about 3 existing warehouses for the storage of agri-
cultural inputs, spare parts and construction materials.
2.   Provision  of  equipment  and vehicles   required  with
respect to the operation of the warehouses included in Part F.1.
Part G:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of long- and short-term specialists to estab-
lish systems and train staff in spare parts inventory control,
work programming, budgeting and accounting and sugar cane produc-
tion.
2.   Provision of overseas fellowships, overseas study-terms
a0d in-service training with respect to agricultural production
support.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
A.   Long-term Technical Assistance
(i) A budget analysis and work programming specialist to
assist the Borrower in developing procedures for
preparing annual work programs and budget requests and
for analyzing budget submissions.
(ii) A   warehouse  management   specialist  to   assist  the
Borrower in establishing a system for inventorying,
stocking and distributing spare parts, equipment and
agricultural supplies.
(iii) A sugar production specialist to assist the Borrower in
promoting sugar production and research in conjunction
with the requirements of the sugar facility provided
under Part E of the Project.
B.   Short-term Technical Assistance
(i) A standardization specialist to assist the Borrower in
preparing   guidelines  for   the   standardization  of
equipment and supplies procured for the agriculture
sector.
(ii) A computer inventory control specialist to assist the
Borrower in developing a computer control program to
facilitate  the   operation  of   warehouses  currently
operated by the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(iii) A procurement specialist to assist the Borrower in
developing guidelines for long-term negotiated con-
tracts for regular imports of major commodities.
(iv) Auditing and accounting specialists      to  assist  the
Borrower in strengthening the audit capacity and
accounting capabilities in the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance and the accounting capabilities in the National
Bank of Laos and the Feedmill, Raw Material Procure-
ment, Agricultural Machinery and Pig Multiplication
agencies of the Borrower.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, (i) all equipment,
materials, machinery, spare parts and civil works for Part E.1 of
the Project shall be procured under one contract, and (ii) all
other goods and civil works shall be procured under contracts; in
each case awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the
Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   The contract for Part E of the Project referred to in para-
graph 1 above shall include, in addition to the above-mentioned
equipment, materials, machinery, spare parts and civil works,
detailed engineering, supervision of erection, installation,
start-up, testing and training ii mill operation and maintenance.
With respect to said contract, tihe Borrower shall adopt a two-
stage bidding procedure. The first stage shall consist of the
presentation by bidders of proposals in two separate, sealed
envelopes, one containing the technical proposal and the
information required for post-bidding qualification, and the
other containing the bid price. The Borrower shall open the
envelopes containing the technical proposals and post-bidding


﻿- 23 -
qualification information at a set date and may thereafter
request all qualified bidders to make appropriate modifications
and changes in the technical proposals and to submit new
separate, sealed envelopes containing changes in, and modifica-
tions to, their original technical proposals and, if desired,
supplemental prices to reflect the technical modifications and
changes. The second stage shall consist of the opening, at a
second set date, of the envelopes containing the original prices
and the supplemental prices. Formal bid evaluation shall be
conducted immediately thereafter. The Borrower shall clearly
indicate the two-stage bidding procedure in the text of the
invitations to bid and other bidding documents.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Lao People's Democratic Republic may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Lao
People's Democratic Republic if the bidder shall


﻿-24 -
have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Lao People's Democratic Republic equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for spare parts and construction materials,
other than for Part E.1 of the Project, may be awarded: (i) in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable
to the Association; or (ii) on the basis of negotiated contracts
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association in cases
where less than 3 suppliers are prepared to bid.


﻿- 25 -
2.   Contracts for vehicles, equipment and materials, other
than for Part E.1 of the Project and other than for spare parts
and materials procured pursuant to the terms of paragraph 1
above, which do not exceed the equivalent of $75,000 each and
which do not exceed, in the aggregate, the equivalent of
$2,400,000 may be awarded: (i) in accordance with local competi-
tive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association; or (ii) on
the basis of negotiated contracts on terms and conditions accept-
able to the Association in cases where (A) less than 3 suppliers
are prepared to bid, or (B) in respect of fuel.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall f-urnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determina-
tion.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.


﻿- 26 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change orders under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan as
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A, B.1, D, E.2 and F.2 of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan allocated
from time to time to Category 1 in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "initial deposit" means an amount in United
States dollars equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (5)
and to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to the
first sentence of paragraph 3 to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   The Association shall, at the request of the Borrower,
withdraw on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and
the Fund Loan Account and depotsit into the Special Account the
initial deposit. Thereafter   and on the basis of requests by the
Borrower furnished to the Association at such intervals as the
Association shall specify, the Association shall further so
withdraw from the Credit Account and the Fund Loan Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as shall be
required to replenish the Special Account with amounts equal to
payments made out of the Special Account for eligible expendi-
tures, but only to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit, together with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of the initial deposit. Except as
the Association may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the


﻿- 28 -
initial deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under Categories 1 (c), (d) and (e), and from the
Fund Loan Account under Categories 1 (a) and (b), and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account after the
initial deposit, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association in
respect of each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account such documents and other evidence as the Association or
the Fund shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was
made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made
by the Association: (a) when (i) the Association shall have
determined at any time that all further withdrawals in respect
of expenditures under Parts D, E.2 and F.2 of the Project can
be made directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and (ii) the Fund shall have determined at any
time that all further withdrawals in respect of expenditures
under Parts A and B.1 of the Project can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Fund Loan Account in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement; or (b) when the
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to Category 1 for
Parts A, B.1, D, E.2 and F.2 of the Project, minus the amount of
any qualified agreement to reimburse made by the Association and
of any special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts A, B.1, D, E.2 and F.2 of the Project, shall be equal to
the equivalent of twice the amount of the initial deposit,
whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account and
the Fund Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit and the Fund Loan allocated to Category 1 for Parts A,
B.1, D, E.2 and F.2 of the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower and
shall, except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.


﻿- 29 -
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made
for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association and the Fund prior to
any further deposit into the Special Account by the Association,
deposit into the Special Account or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justi-
fied; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


