Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3959 KE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 4, 2004
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3959 KE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated  August 4 ,2004, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend 
the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BDS Grant” means a business development service grant to be made 
out of the proceeds of the Credit for the provision of technical advisory services or 
training for MSME Consortium (as hereinafter defined) under Part B.1 of the Project, and 
in its plural form the term means more than one such Grant; 
(b) 
“BDS Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
the BDS Manager (as hereinafter defined) and a MSME Consortium as specified in the 
BDS Grants Manual (as hereinafter defined) for the provision of a BDS Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and in its 
plural form the term means more than one such Agreement; 
(c) 
“BDS Grants Manual” means the manual to be prepared by the Borrower 
for the provision of BDS Grants and referred to in Section 5.01 (b) and Section IV of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  3
-
2
-
2
(d) 
“BDS Manager” means a private sector firm to be recruited in the 
accordance provisions of Section IV.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to assist the 
Borrower in managing the provision of BDS Grants; 
(e) 
“CB Grant” means a Capacity Building Grant to be made or proposed to 
be made under Part A.1 of the Project to qualifying providers of financial services out of 
the proceeds of the Credit under terms and conditions set forth in the CBGM (as this term 
is hereinafter defined), and in its plural form the term means more than one such Grant; 
(f) 
“CB Grant Agreement” means a Capacity Building Grant Agreement” to 
be entered into between the Trust (as hereinafter defined) and a MFI (as hereinafter 
defined) or a CFI (as hereinafter defined) for the provision of a CB Grant in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in its plural form 
the term means more than one such Agreement; 
(g) 
“CBGM” means the Capacity Building Grants Manual to be adopted by 
the Borrower for the provision of CB Grants and referred to in Section 5.01 (c) and 
Section II.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(h) 
“CFI” means a commercial financial institution such as banks established 
and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s laws; 
(i) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) to (6) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(j) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Financial Sector Deepening Trust” means the trust fund incorporated 
under the laws of the Borrower to administer CB Grants; 
(l) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(m) 
“Fund” means the Risk Capital Fund defined in Paragraph (ff) of this 
Section; 
(n) 
“Fund Manager” means a private sector firm which meets the Risk 
Capital eligibility criteria set forth in PIP, and in its plural form the term means more than 
one Fund Manager; 
(o) 
“Grants” means BDS Grant, CB Grant and Risk Capital Grant, and in its 
singular form the term means any one of such Grants; 
Page  4
-
3
-
3
(p) 
“Grant Agreements” means BDS Grant Agreement, CB Grant 
Agreement and Risk Capital Grant Agreement (as hereinafter defined), and in its singular 
form the term means any one of such Agreements; 
(q) 
“Initial Deposit” means the initial amount to be deposited into the Project 
Account (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in Section 3.03 (b)(i) of this Agreement; 
(r) 
“Kenya Private Sector Alliance” means the business association 
established and operating in accordance with the Borrower’s law and including as its 
members business associations operating in the Borrower’s territory: 
(s) 
“Kenya Shilling” or “KES” means the currency of the Borrower;  
(t) 
“Management Services Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Project Management Contractor (as hereinafter 
defined) for the carrying out of financial management and procurement aspects of the 
Project and referred to in Section I.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(u) 
“MFI” means a micro finance institution such as registered micro finance 
banks and nongovernmental organizations engaged in the delivery of financial services to 
the MSME sector, including Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SACCOs) and non-
banking financial institutions, established and operating in accordance with the 
Borrower’s laws; 
(v) 
“MSME” means a micro, small and medium enterprise established and 
operating in the Borrower’s territory, and in its plural form the term means more than one 
MSME; 
(w) 
“MSME Consortium” means a group of MSMEs applying together for a 
BDS Grant; 
(x) 
“Operating Accounts” means the account to be opened by the Borrower 
to receive deposits in Kenya Shilling from the Special Account (as hereinafter defined) 
and referred to in Part C.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;   
(y) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement; 
(z) 
“Participating MSME” means a MSME that receives support under the 
Project, and in its plural form the term means more than one MSME; 
(aa) 
“PIP” or “Project Implementation Plan” means the plan to be prepared 
by the Borrower for the implementation of the Project and referred to in Section I.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
4
(bb) 
“PMC” or “Project Management Contractor” means a private sector firm 
to be recruited in accordance with the provisions of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement to carry out, 
inter alia
,
financial management and procurement aspects of the 
Project and referred to in Section I.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(cc) 
“Project Secretariat” means the Secretariat to be established by the 
Borrower to provide technical and policy advice to the Project Steering Committee (as 
hereinafter defined) for the implementation of the Project and referred to in Section I.2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(dd) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee to be established by 
the Borrower to, 
inter alia
,
provide overall guidance for the implementation of the 
Project and referred to in Section I.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;   
(ee) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(ff) 
“Risk Capital Fund” means the fund to be established by private 
investors and incorporated in accordance with the Borrower’s laws to provide loans and 
quasi-equity to small and medium enterprises; 
(gg) 
“Risk Capital Grant” means  a Grant made to the Fund Managers under 
Part A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(hh) 
“Risk Capital Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the 
Borrower and a Fund Manager for the provision of a Grant to the Fund; 
(ii) 
“RCGM” means the Risk Capital Grant Manual to be adopted by the 
Borrower for the provision of Risk Capital Grants and referred to Section II.1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(jj) 
 “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement; 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
15,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
Page  6
-
5
-
5
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made under BDS Grants, CB Grants 
or Risk Capital Grants to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services to be 
financed under Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project, in respect of which the withdrawal 
from the Credit Account is requested. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2014 and ending March 15, 
2044. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2024 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
Page  7
-
6
-
6
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Page  8
-
7
-
7
Project through its Ministry of Trade and Industry with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and managerial practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
open an account in Kenya Shilling in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association (the Project Account), and thereafter maintain the Project Account under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association until the completion of the Project; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial amount of one million one 
hundred thousand Kenya Shillings (KES 1,100,000) (the Initial Deposit); and (ii) thereafter, at 
quarterly intervals, replenish the Project Account by the amounts required to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed from the 
proceeds of the Credit, as shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(c) 
ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance expenditures under the 
Project other than those financed from the proceeds of the Financing. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
8
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the PMC to establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause the PMC to: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the record and accounts for the Special Account and 
the Operating Account for each fiscal year (or other period 
agreed to by the Association), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, record and accounts and concerning said auditors, as 
the Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall cause the PMC to: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
Page  10
-
9
-
9
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section V of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause the PMC to prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation ; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
ARTICLE V
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions : 
(a) 
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association a PIP in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
Page  11
-
10
-
10
(b) 
the Borrower has prepared and furnished to the Association a BDS 
Grants Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
the Borrower has adopted and furnished to the Association a CBGM in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(d) 
the Borrower has established the Project Steering Committee satisfactory 
to the Association; 
(e) 
the Borrower has established the Project Secretariat satisfactory to the 
Association;   
(f) 
the Borrower has entered into the Management Services Agreement with 
the PMC in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
(g) 
the Borrower has opened the Special Account; 
(h) 
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and has deposited therein 
the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and 
(i) 
selection of Fund Managers under Part A.2 of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement has been completed in accordance with the criteria and procedures 
satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
11
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Borrower’s Minister for Finance is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Treasury Building  
 
P.O Box 30007-00100 
 
Nairobi, Kenya 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
FINANCEnairobi 
 
22921minfin-ke              + (254) 20 330426 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Nairobi, Kenya, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
By 
/s/ David Mwiraria 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT  
ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Makhtar 
Diop 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
13
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
210,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, and 
 
90%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
4,890,000 
100% of foreign 
 
services including  
 
expenditures,  
 
audit fees 
 
and 94% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
(3) Workshops 
and 
 
350,000 
100% 
 
training   
 
 
 
 
(4) 
CB Grants under 
2,730,000 
100% of amounts  
 
Part A.1 of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(5) 
Risk Capital Grants under 
4,430,000 
100% of amounts  
 
Part A.2 of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(6) 
BDS Grants under 
2,060,000 
100% of amounts  
 
Part B.1 of the Project 
 
disbursed 
 
(7) Unallocated 
330,000 
 
========
TOTAL 15,000,000
Page  15
-
14
-
14
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
It is understood that the percentages of expenditures to be financed under the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule have been calculated on the basis of the 
provision of a letter issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance pursuant to Section 
138 (1) and (2) (g) of The Customs and Excise Act and Section 23 (1) and 3 (e) of the 
VAT Act, as read together with the Legal Notice Number 138  (The Customs and Excise 
Act, Chapter 472)  and Legal Notice No. 145 (VAT Act, Chapter 476) both of 4
t
h
June, 
1992 (as amended in 1996 and 2001) of the Borrower, which provides for exemption of 
taxes levied in the territory of the Borrower on works, goods and services for this Project. 
If any change is made to said Letter and Acts or Legal Notices, which has the effect of
 
levying taxes or customs duties on such works, goods and services, the percentages 
referred to above shall be decreased in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) Grants from Categories 4, 5 and 6 until the relevant Grant Agreement 
has been signed . 
5. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) for services of individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (d) 
workshops and training; and (e) BDS Grants, CB Grants and Risk Capital Grants, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
6. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
Page  16
-
15
-
15
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
Page  17
-
16
-
16
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Credit Agreement. 
C. Operating 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Kenya Shilling an Operating Account, 
in one or more commercial banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
(including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment).  
2. 
The Borrower shall, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, 
withdraw from time to time from the Special Account and deposit into the Operating 
Account, an amount required to finance eligible expenditures for a period of 90 days of 
Project implementation. 
3. 
Payments out of the Operating Account shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures. 
4. 
In the event that the Association, after consultation with the Borrower, 
determines that any outstanding amount in the Operating Account is not further required 
to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower, upon notice from the 
Association shall promptly refund such outstanding amount to the Special Account. 
Page  18
-
17
-
17
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of one million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,0000) to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
Page  19
-
18
-
18
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  20
-
19
-
19
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
20
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to increase productivity and employment in 
participating MSMEs through facilitation of access to finance; strengthening employable 
skills and market linkages; and improvement of investment climate. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Access to Finance
1. 
Improvement, provision and expansion of financial services to MSMEs through 
CB Grants, including: (a) assistance to MFIs in introducing new systems and 
methodologies of individual lending products, expanding MFIs outreach to underserved 
areas and improving MFIs operations, management, and governance structure; and (b) 
assistance to CFIs in building capacity and introducing new products to expand their 
financial services to MSMEs. 
2. 
Financial assistance to Fund Managers through Risk Capital Grants: (a)  as a 
partial support for management arrangements; and (b) provision of TA to the Fund’s 
MSME beneficiaries.  
Part B:
Strengthening MSMEs Employable  Skills and Market Linkages
1. 
Provision of training and business development services to strengthen 
competitiveness and performance at critical points in supply chains through provision of 
BDS Grants.  
2. 
Restructuring of the existing industrial training levy scheme based on clearly 
defined strategic objectives, and assessment of skills needs. 
3. 
(a) Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower’s universities’ business schools 
to: (i) develop locally relevant study cases and integrate these cases into existing 
curriculum; and (ii) expand their  curriculum to include training for MSMEs in the form 
of short courses; and (b) facilitation of  a national business plan competition to promote 
innovative business ideas, all through provision of technical advisory services and 
training .   
Part C:
Business Environment
1. 
Implementation of a pilot program aimed at reducing the cost and time of 
compliance with business regulations through provision of technical advisory services 
Page  22
-
21
-
21
and acquisition of equipment to combine various existing procedures into one interface 
for business start up. 
2. 
Development and launch of a simplified taxation system for micro and small 
businesses.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by  December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
22
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding 
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement Guidelines, and the 
following additional procedures: 
1. Domestic 
Preference.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
competitive bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, of the 
Procurement Guidelines.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality and cost in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 
Page  24
-
23
-
23
of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source selection, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services for training and 
workshops may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
The following review procedures shall apply to contracts for which the 
Procurement Plan provides for prior review by the Association: 
1. 
Goods and Services (other than Consultants’ Services)
.
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods and services (other 
than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more per 
contract. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Firms
.
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to contracts for consultants’ services provided by 
firms estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent per contract . However, if such contracts are 
to be procured on the basis of single source selection, the following procedures shall 
apply instead:  (a) the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
Page  25
-
24
-
24
and approval; (b) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s approval shall 
have been given; and (c) the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
 
3. 
Consultants’ Services Provided by Individuals
.
The following prior review procedures shall apply to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost $ 50,000 per contract:  (a) the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants (or, if the consultant is to be 
selected on a sole source basis, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants) shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval;  (b) the contract shall be awarded only after the Association’s 
approval shall have been given; and (c) the provisions of paragraph 3 and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to the contract. 
B. Post 
Review
.
The following post review procedures shall apply to all contracts for which the 
Procurement Plan does not provide for prior review by the Association:  
1. 
With respect to contracts for goods or services (other than consultants’ services), 
the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement 
Guidelines shall apply. 
2. 
With respect to contracts for consultants’ services, the post review procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  26
-
25
-
25
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
Section I.
Project Implementation and Management
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
Carry out the Project through its Ministry of Trade and Industry in 
accordance with the requirements of PIP, and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, not amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, 
may adversely and materially affect the implementation of the Project; and  
 
(b) Enter into a Management Services Agreement with a Project Management 
Contractor under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including, 
inter 
alia
,
the obligation of the private sector firm to: (i) support the Borrower in carrying out 
general administration and implementation support, financial management, disbursement 
and procurement; and (ii) comply with those obligations referred to in Sections 4.01 and 
4.02 of this Agreement.  
2. 
For overall Project oversight, the Borrower shall maintain, at all times during 
implementation of the Project, the Project Steering Committee and the Project 
Secretariat, with their composition, terms of reference and staffing satisfactory to the 
Association. 
3. 
The Borrower shall carry out all training and workshops under the Project on the 
basis of programs, which shall have been approved by the Association on a quarterly 
basis, and which shall, inter alia, identify: (a) the training and workshops envisaged; (b) 
the personnel to be trained; (c) the institutions which will conduct the training; (d) the 
duration of the proposed training; and (e) an estimate of the cost. 
Section II.
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for CB Grants
1. The 
CBGM 
shall, 
inter alia
,
set out details of: (a) the activities to be financed by 
CB Grants, beneficiaries and eligibility criteria for receiving such Grants; (b) 
arrangements and procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and 
supervision of activities to be financed by CB Grants; (c) procurement, financial 
management and disbursement arrangements; (d) performance indicators; (e) standard 
formats for CB Grant Agreements; and (f) such other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements as shall be required for providing CB Grants. 
2. 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the Financial Sector Deepening 
Trust (the Trust) in form and substance satisfactory to the Association including, 
inter 
alia
,
the obligations of the Trust to manage and provide CB Grants under Part A.1 of the 
Project in accordance with procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the PIP and the 
CBGM. 
Page  27
-
26
-
26
3. 
To provide a CB Grant, the Borrower shall cause the Trust to enter into a CB 
Grant Agreement with the beneficiary financial institution qualified to receive a CB 
Grant in accordance with the eligibility criteria laid down in the CBGM. 
Section III.
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for Risk Capital Grants
1. 
The Borrower shall adopt RCGM satisfactory to the Association. It shall, 
inter 
alia
,
set out details of: (a) the activities to be financed by the Risk Capital Grants, 
beneficiaries and eligibility criteria for such Grants; (b) arrangements and procedures for 
preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and supervision of activities to be 
financed by the Risk Capital Grants; (c) procurement, financial management and 
disbursement arrangements; (d) performance indicators; (e) standard formats for the Risk 
Capital Grant Agreements; and (f) such other administrative, financial and organizational 
arrangements as shall be required for providing the Risk Capital Grants. 
2. 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the selected Fund Managers in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association including, 
inter alia
,
the obligations of 
the Fund to: (a) manage and provide technical assistance (TA) under Part A.2 (b) of the 
Project in accordance with procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the PIP and the 
RCGM; and (b) provide TA only to MSMEs. 
Section IV
.
Procedures and Eligibility Criteria for BDS Grants
1. 
The BDS Grants Manual shall, 
inter alia
,
set out details of: (a) BDS Grants, 
activities to be financed by BDS Grants, beneficiaries and eligibility criteria; (b) 
arrangements and procedures for preparation, appraisal, approval, implementation and 
supervision of activities to be financed by BDS Grants; (c) procurement, financial 
management and disbursement arrangements; (d) performance indicators; (e) standard 
formats for BDS Grant Agreements; and (f) such other administrative, financial and 
organizational arrangements as shall be required for providing BDS Grants. 
2. 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with the BDS Manager in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association including, 
inter alia
,
the obligations of the BDS 
Manager to: (a) manage and provide BDS Grants under Part B.1 of the Project in 
accordance with procedures and eligibility criteria set forth in the PIP and the BDS 
Grants Manual; and (b) provide BDS Grants only to an MSME Consortium. 
3. 
To provide a BDS Grant, the Borrower shall cause the BDS Manager to enter 
into a BDS Grant Agreement with the beneficiary MSME Consortium which shall 
include, but not be limited to the following: 
 
(a) 
the MSME Consortium shall contribute investments equivalent to the 
total cost of the amounts provided by the BDS Grants, and the BDS Grant shall not 
exceed the equivalent of one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000); 
Page  28
-
27
-
27
(b) 
MSME’s Consortium obligation to carry out the activities to be financed 
by the BDS Grant in accordance with the BDS Grants Manual, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards 
and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the BDS Grant; 
 
(c) 
the requirement that: (i) services to be financed from the proceeds of the 
BDS Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in BDS Grants 
Manual, and (ii) such services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the eligible 
activities in accordance with the BDS Grant Manual. 
Section V.
Monitoring and Evaluation
16. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 28, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
17. Annual 
Reports. 
 
The Borrower shall submit to the Association annual reports, in 
scope and form agreed with the association, for the Project not later than three months 
after the completion of the fiscal year of the Borrower. 
Page  29
-
28
-
28
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association: 
1. 
At least 2,500 new jobs created in participating MSMEs. 
2. 
Value added efficiency per worker increased by 20% in participating MSMEs. 
3. 
70% of MFIs and CFIs receiving Finance Grants meet or exceed their business 
plan targets for MSMEs outreach and portfolio quality. 
4. 
$11,500,000 in loans and quasi-equity investments to MSMEs disbursed through 
the Risk Management Fund with loan loss rate below 10%. 
5. 
A comprehensive supply chain strategy, which responds to the market, technical, 
human resource and financial needs of key players along the entire supply chain is 
created for at least three strategic sectors. 
6. 
Increased subcontracting in supported supply chains, providing at least 50% 
increase in the level of local sourcing. 
7. 
Agreement on training levy scheme, legislation and implementation plan. 
8. 
100
new business case studies introduced into the Borrower’s universities’ 
business schools curriculum. 
9. 
Case-based instruction is routinely used in at least one required course in each of 
the participating business schools. 
10. 
At least 200 eligible entrepreneurs apply to business plan competition in first 
year of Project implementation , with at least 5% increase in number of eligible 
applicants annually. 
11. 
Number of formally registered MSMEs is increased by at least 25%.  
12. 
Average cost of complying with business start-up regulations is reduced to no 
more than $100 and time required is reduced to no more than two weeks. 
13. 
Number of MSMEs that participate in the business tax increases by at least 15%. 
 
