                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2496



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-39590)



                                        ON A

                                       CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR15 MILLION
                         (US$22 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                        FOR A

  MICRO, SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT



                                   December 20, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Unit
Africa Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)
                   Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling (Ksh)
                        US$1.00 = Ksh. 83.95
                        US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.66

                         January 1   -   December 31


     ABBREVIMPACT ASSESSMENTTIONS AND ACRONYMS

BDS        Business Development Services
BPC        Business Plan Competition
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DFID       Department for International Development
EBITDA     Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization
ERRs       Economic Rate Returns
ESW        Economic Sector Work
FSDT       Financial Sector Deepening Trust
GBSN       Global Business School Network
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GoK        Government of Kenya
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
ISRs       Implementing Status and Results Reports
IR         Intermediate Results
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MFIs       Microfinance Institutions
MoTI       Ministry of Trade and Industry
MoI        Ministry of Industrialization
MSE        Micro and Small Enterprise
MSMEs      Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
MTR        Medium Term Review
NPV        Net Present Value
NBFIs      Non-bank Financial Institutions
PBK        Pyrethrum Board of Kenya
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objectives
PMC        Project Management Contractor
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
RCF        Risk Capital Fund
SACCOs     Savings and Credit Cooperatives

                               ii
SSC    SME Solution Center
TA     Technical Assistance
TIPs   Technical Implementation Partners
TVET   Technical, Vocational and Educational Training




             Vice President: Makhtar Diop
           Country Director: Johannes Zutt
            Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
       Project Team Leader: Yira Mascaró
          ICR Team Leader: Xiaofeng Hua




                            iii
                                REPUBLIC OF KENYA
               Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Competitiveness Project

                                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 26
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 27
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 30
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 31
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 33
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 35
  Annex 3. Economic and financialAnalysis ................................................................... 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
  Annex 5. BenefiarySurvey Results ............................................................................... 46
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 48
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
  MAP




                                                             iv
                                      DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                           Micro, Small, and
                                                                           Medium Enterprise
Country:                 Kenya                   Project Name:
                                                                           Competitiveness
                                                                           Project
Project ID:              P085007                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39590
ICR Date:                12/20/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:      SIL                     Borrower:
Original Total
                         XDR 15.00M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.82M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:          XDR 10.82M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Industrialization
 FSD Kenya
 GBSN Center Kenya
 BPI Kenya
 Deloitte Kenya
 PWC Kenya
 Kenya Institute of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process               Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/15/2004    Effectiveness:            12/17/2004        12/17/2004
                                                                                  12/28/2009
Appraisal:              03/30/2004    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  06/29/2012
Approval:               07/13/2004    Mid-term Review:          02/28/2007        12/28/2009
                                      Closing:                  06/30/2010        06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory



                                                 v
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      5                   0
General industry and trade sector                                     45                  72
SME Finance                                                           35                  16
Sub-national government administration                                 5                   0
Vocational training                                                   10                  12


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Improving labor markets                                               24                  12
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            25                  48
Regulation and competition policy                                     25                  3
Rural markets                                                         13                  37
Tax policy and administration                                         13                  0

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Makhtar Diop                         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                   Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:            Irina Astrakhan                      Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:       Yira J. Mascaro                      Vyjayanti Tharmaratnam Desai


                                                vi
ICR Team Leader:            Xiaofeng Hua
ICR Primary Author:         Xiaofeng Hua

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project aims to increase productivity and employment in participating micro, small
and medium enterprises (MSMEs). This objective will be achieved by strengthening
financial and non-financial markets to meet the demand of MSMEs, strengthening
support for employable skills and business management, and reducing critical investment
climate constraints in MSMEs. The project will focus on key value chains and on both
formal small and medium enterprises and informal microenterprises that have high
potential for dynamic growth, including "graduation" from informal to formal status.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target       Completion or
                                                documents)          Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     At least 2,500 new jobs created in participating MSMEs
Value
quantitative or   Zero (0.00)               2,500                              1,450
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2004                  07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments          The number 1,450 is the documented number of jobs created in the end-of-
(incl. %          project impact assessment, and should be viewed as the floor for the total number
achievement)      of jobs created under the Project.
Indicator 2 :     Value added per worker increases by 20 percent in participating MSMEs
Value                                                                          C1A – 7%
quantitative or   Zero(0.00)                  20%                              C1B – 60%
Qualitative)                                                                   C2A – 320%
Date achieved     06/15/2004                  07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments          There was a slight discrepancy in the wording of the indicator between the PAD
(incl. %          and the DCA, which was addressed by the 2009 project restructuring. The
achievement)      indicator in this Datasheet is the modified one.




                                                vii
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                   approval                         Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                 documents)                          Target Years
                  At least 70 percent of financial institutions receiving grants from the Financial
Indicator 1 :
                  Sector Deepening Trust meet or exceed their business plan targets
Value
(quantitative     0.00                       At least 70%                       46%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/15/2004                   07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments        The 46% is based on the available information. In general, FSDT had significant
(incl. %        impact on Kenyan financial institutions transformation and outreach as
achievement)    confirmed by a January 2010 independent impact assessment of the program.
                At least US$11.5m in loans and quasi-equity investment to SMEs disbursed
Indicator 2 : through SME risk capital fund and facilitated through targeted technical
                assistance, with loan loss rate below 10%
                                             At least US$11.5                 US$17 million in
Value                                        million in loans                 loans and quasi-
(quantitative   0.00                         and quasi-equity                 equity investment
or Qualitative)                              investment                       (gross)
                                             &gt;10% loan loss                7.5% loan loss
Date achieved 06/15/2004                     07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A comprehensive supply chain strategy, which responds to market, technical,
Indicator 3 : human resource and financial needs of key players along the entire supply chain,
                is created for at least three sectors.
                                                                              4 sector strategies
Value
                                                                              (Coffee, Cotton-to-
(quantitative   0.00                         at least 3 sectors
                                                                              Garment, Leather
or Qualitative)
                                                                              and Pyrethrum)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                     07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Increased subcontracting in local supply chains providing at least 50% increase
Indicator 4 :
                in the level of local sourcing
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         At least 50%                     1,000%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                     07/14/2004                       06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Agreement on training levy scheme, legislation and implementation plan


                                                 viii
                                                                               An agreement
                                                                               reached on the
Value
                                                                               restructuring
(quantitative   0.00                        An agreement
                                                                               strategy and
or Qualitative)
                                                                               implementation
                                                                               plan
Date achieved 06/15/2004                    07/14/2004                         06/30/2012
Comments        There was a minor discrepancy in the wording of this indicator between the PAD
(incl. %        and the DCA, which was addressed by the 2009 project restructuring. The
achievement) indicator used in this Datasheet is the modified one.
                100 new business case studies introduced into the Borrower's universities'
Indicator 6 :
                business school curriculum
Value
                                            100 new business                   137 cases
(quantitative   0.00
                                            case studies                       developed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                    07/14/2004                         06/30/2012
Comments        There was a minor discrepancy in the wording of this indicator between the PAD
(incl. %        and the DCA, which was addressed by the 2009 project restructuring. The
achievement) indicator used in this Datasheet is the modified one.
                Case-based instruction is routinely used in at least one required course in each of
Indicator 7 :
                the three business schools.
                                                                               Case-based
                                                                               instruction was
                                                                               routinely used in
                                            Case-based
Value           Case-based instruction                                         the three
                                            instructions in
(quantitative   rarely used in business                                        participating
                                            three business
or Qualitative) schools                                                        universities'
                                            schools
                                                                               executive business
                                                                               education
                                                                               programs.
Date achieved 06/15/2004                    07/14/2004                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                At least 200 eligible entrepreneurs apply to the business plan competition in the
Indicator 8 : first year, with at least a 5% increase in the number of eligible applicants
                annually
                                                                               2,092 applicants in
                                                                               1st round
Value                                                                          3,493 applicants in
                                            At least 200
(quantitative   0.00                                                           2nd round
                                            applicants
or Qualitative)                                                                An increase of 67%
                                                                               between 1st and
                                                                               2nd rounds
Date achieved 06/15/2004                    07/14/2004                         06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Bank core indicator - Direct project beneficiaries

                                                ix
Value
(quantitative     0.00                                                      219,136
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/15/2004                                                06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Bank core indicator - Female beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative     0.00                                                      561
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   06/15/2004                                                    06/30/2012
                This number 561 is the female beneficiaries under C1B only, including female
Comments
                entrepreneur investees and those received technical assistance. No consistent
(incl. %
                tracking of the number of female beneficiaries under the other subcomponents is
achievement)
                available.
                Bank core indicator - Volume of Bank Support: Institutional Development -
Indicator 11 :
                SME
Value
(quantitative   0.00                                           US$2 million US$7.9 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                                       12/28/2009     06/30/2012
Comments
                The end-results included IDA support of C1B, C2A and C2C; hence covering
(incl. %
                both SMEs and micro-enterprises.
achievement)
                Bank core indicator - Volume of Bank Support: Institutional Development -
Indicator 12 :
                Microfinance
Value
                                                               US$5.75
(quantitative   0.00                                                          US$2.2 million
                                                               million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                                       12/28/2009     06/30/2012
Comments
                The end-results was the IDA financing for C1A; hence covering all types of
(incl. %
                financial institution beneficiaries.
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Bank core indicator- Volume of Bank Support: Enabling Environment - SME
Value
(quantitative   0.00                                                          US$0.5 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/15/2004                                                      12/28/2009
Comments
                Monitoring stopped for this indicator after the discontinuation of the original
(incl. %
                Component Three.
achievement)




                                                 x
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                              IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1    11/19/2004       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/23/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     1.51
  3    12/20/2005       Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.61
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  4    06/19/2006                                                                      2.61
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
  5    12/21/2006       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             2.61
  6    06/29/2007       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             2.61
  7    12/20/2007       Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory             3.60
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  8    06/25/2008                                                                      3.60
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                     Moderately
  9    12/30/2008                                                                      6.15
                       Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 10    06/29/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             7.02
 11    12/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             8.30
 12    06/26/2010   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             9.97
 13    04/10/2011   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            10.98
 14    01/03/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            13.38
 15    07/11/2012   Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            16.88

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Main reasons:
                                                     • Only 20% of the planned
                                                     outputs were achieved
                                                     • Disbursement was only 27% 3
                                                     years into project
                                                     implementation
                                                     • Component Three was not
                                                     performing
 12/28/2009       N       MS    MS            8.30
                                                     Key changes:
                                                     • Component Three removed
                                                     • Component Four merged with
                                                     new Component 3 on
                                                     government counterpart
                                                     capacity building and project
                                                     management
                                                     • IDA financing reallocated

                                              xi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Main reasons:
                                                     • The Project would not be able
                                                     to fully utilize the IDA
                                                     financing of US$22 million
                                                     equivalent
                                                     • Cancellation of IDA credit
                                                     proceeds of a project in a client
                                                     country within a WB fiscal year
 06/29/2012               MS    MS           16.88
                                                     will allow the utilization of the
                                                     funding for the country
                                                     program.

                                                         Key changes:
                                                         • US$6 million of IDA
                                                         financing for the Project was
                                                         cancelled.


I. Disbursement Profile




                                         xii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and sector background: Kenya was on the road to economic recovery
in 2003 – 2004 after two decades of economic mismanagement and decline. The
economic rehabilitation was guided by a private-sector driven recovery strategy. 1 This
Government of the Republic of Kenya (GOK) strategy saw the development of Micro,
Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) as a main contributor towards income
increase and job creation. The importance of the MSME sector in Kenya is evident from
the 1999 national Micro and Small Enterprise (MSE) survey which indicated there were
1.3 million MSEs which accounted for 18.4 percent of GDP. 2 Most (64 percent) of the
MSEs were in trade, followed by services (15 percent). Manufacturing was the third
largest sector for MSEs (13 percent). The survey also found that 99 percent of the MSEs
employed less than 10 workers, and the remaining one percent was in the range of 10 –
50 employees. In 1999 - 2003, the MSE sector registered an increase of almost 40
percent in job creation (5.1 million employees). 3 Meanwhile, larger enterprises’ job
creation was stagnant, having only added 20,000 jobs to a total employment of 1.76
million.

2.      Constraints to MSME development: At appraisal, several major obstacles to
MSME development were identified. The first one was the limited access to finance. In
Kenya, the financial market was polarized. At one end of the spectrum, dozens of
commercial banks and licensed non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) serviced a narrow
portion of the formal economy; and on the other, over 5,000 microfinance institutions
(MFIs) and savings and credit cooperatives (SACCOs) provided microfinance loans to
groups of individuals or households. Commercial banks required well-secured collateral
and did not have good information on entrepreneurs’ project quality, while most SMEs
found it difficult to come up with adequate collateral. MFIs and SACCOs typically
financed activities of quick but meager turnovers (e.g. petty trade) or other household
income improving businesses. Those small financial institutions did not have the
financial strength and institutional capacity to finance MSME growth, to say nothing of
startup MSMEs. Equity financing initiatives in Kenya (and elsewhere in Africa) suffered
a lack of exit opportunities for investors and high processing cost of large amount of
small investments.

3.     At the time of project preparation, a Bank sponsored ESW analyzed some key
value chains including those for coffee, cotton to garments and pyrethrum. 4 The study
revealed that the domestic markets failed to provide mutual support systems and value


1
  GOK: Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and employment Creation, 2003-2007
2
  Central Bureau of Statistics: National Micro and Small Enterprise Baseline Survey, 1999
3
  Central Bureau of Statistics: Economic Survey 2003 which included domestic servants in the definition of
  the informal sector and the statistics from this survey were used as a proxy for SME employment.
4
  The World Bank: Kenya Growth and Competitiveness, (Report No. 31387-KE), January 27, 2005


                                                    1
chain linkages. Coffee farming suffered from poor labor skills. Coffee processing
techniques at coffee farmers’ cooperatives were inefficient. The cooperatives often
delayed payments to farmers for months while charging the latter interest on loans.
Coffee farmers did not receive feedback on product quality from marketing agencies
which were an important player in moving processed coffee to auction floors. Cotton
production yields were low: realized production was less than 10 percent of the potential
of available cotton land. Cotton farmers were poorly equipped with technical skills and
could not afford pesticides and agrochemicals. Seeds provided by ginneries were in poor
quality, leading to low quality of cotton. Reject rates on shop floors were high and
ginning equipment was outdated. The pyrethrum sector was controlled by the Pyrethrum
Board of Kenya (PBK) which failed to provide quality inputs to farmers but controlled
the price of their crop. The administrative costs accounted for the entire cost of
pyrethrum farming. In all those value chains, public-private consultations were irregular
or did not fully involve the main stakeholders along the value chains.

4.      There was a mismatch between training offered by Kenya’s formal technical,
vocational and educational (TVET) institutions and MSMEs’ skills needs. TVET only
provided about 20 percent of training with the rest provided within the MSME sector.
Literacy of the Kenyan labor force was among the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa, but
labor productivity of Kenya’s manufacturing sector declined from the 1990s. One
contributing factor was the problems in the prevalence, level and quality of skills
development and technical training. The country’s long existent Industrial Training Levy
scheme was designed to offset under-investments in training due to labor mobility.
Levies collected from firms with more than five workers funded a dedicated industrial
training fund and the levy payers could get the cost of pre-approved training programs
reimbursed by that fund. However, the scheme had become obsolete and could not meet
Kenya enterprises needs in a more diversified economy.

5.      The business and regulatory environment for Kenya’s MSMEs remained
cumbersome and costly. While the introduction of the single business permit in 2000
combined 16 individual locally issued business licenses into one, there were still 11
separate procedures for business registration which was estimated to take about 60 days
on average. In order to operate officially, a business would need to obtain two general
licenses: the single business permit, and the trade license from the Ministry of Trade and
Industry (MOTI). Almost every business activity required a special license. All the
licenses required fee payments and most had to be renewed annually. The licensing
system was prone to rent-seeking and was quite costly to MSMEs. In addition, there
were numerous taxes and fees which should be simplified to encourage more MSMEs to
move into the formal sector, and meanwhile reduce the Government’s tax administration
burdens.

6.     Bank assistance program: To support the GOK’s Economic Recovery Strategy,
the Bank adopted a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in June 2004 and stimulating
economic growth featured high in the reengagement strategy. Around the same time, the




                                             2
Bank approved a joint IDA/IFC MSME pilot program for Africa (December 2003). 5
This pilot program intended to better integrate IDA’s and IFC’s expertise, resources and
instruments to: (i) increase access to finance for MSMEs; (ii) build capacity in MSMEs;
and (iii) promote business environment reforms.

7.      The Project: Against this country and sector background, the Bank approved the
Kenya Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Competitiveness Project (the MSME project
or the Project) in July 2004 as a direct response to the identified main bottlenecks of the
MSME sector development in Kenya. The Project was the second of the Joint IDA-IFC
MSME Program. Detailed discussions of the Project as a main Bank response to the
developmental needs of Kenya’s MSMEs are provided in the relevant sections of the ICR.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.        The PDO as presented in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was as follows: 6

“The Project aims to increase productivity and employment in participating micro, small
and medium enterprises (MSMEs). This objective will be achieved by strengthening
financial and non-financial markets to meet the demand of MSMEs, strengthening
support for employable skills and business management, and reducing critical investment
climate constraints in MSMEs. The project will focus on key value chains and on both
formal small and medium enterprises and informal microenterprises that have high
potential for dynamic growth, including "graduation" from informal to formal status.?

9.        The PDO in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was similar.

10.       The achievement of the PDO was to be measured by two Outcome Indicators:

      •   “At least 2,500 new jobs created in participating MSMEs, and
      •   Value added per worker increases by 20 percent in participating MSMEs.?

11.    At appraisal, the following Intermediate Results (IR) were established, and for
which 11 indicators adopted (see the Datasheet of this ICR for details):

      •   Component One: Increase in commercially sustainable delivery of financial
          services to MSMEs
      •   Component Two: (i) Increase in specialized value adding links in supply chains;
          (ii) Technical, legal, and regulatory framework for redesigning the Industrial
          Training Levy Scheme is established; and (iii) Improved business management
          education


5
  The Program Framework Document for a Joint IDA/IFC Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise
  Development Pilot Program for Africa (IDA/SecM2003-0614). The first project approved under the
  program was the Nigeria MSME Project.
6
  Quotations on the outcome and intermediate results indicators are from the PAD (Report No: 29354-KE,
  June 15, 2004).


                                                  3
      •   Component Three: Improved regulatory environment for doing business in Kenya

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.       There was no revision of the PDO and the Outcome Indicators.

13.     The Intermediate Result of the original Component 3 (Improving Business and
Regulatory Environment) and the associated three indicators were dropped when the
original component was cancelled by the project restructuring in December 2009.

14.      Five Bank-wide core indicators on IDA credit disbursement and number of
beneficiaries were added as additional Intermediate Results before December 2009 (but
the one on disbursement for business environment improvement was dropped after the
first project restructuring). The core indicators are listed in the Datasheet of this ICR.
The rest of the Results and the related IR indicators remained unchanged as designed,
although there were minor alignment in the wording of the indicators between the PAD
and the Results Framework used in the Implementing Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
at the 2009 project restructuring.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.     The primary target group of the Project was Kenya’s MSMEs. 7 The Project was
also expected to benefit employees of the beneficiary MSMEs and farmers of the value
chains to be supported through various capacity building activities and business
development services. There was no revision of the main beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components

16.    At approval, the Project had four components including five sub-components, as
follows:

17.   Component One (C1) Access to Finance (US$10.5 million equivalent): This
Component was designed to address the identified access to finance constraints faced by
Kenya’s MSMEs. The Component consisted of two subcomponents.

18.     Subcomponent A(C1A) – Financial Sector Deepening (US$4 million equivalent of
IDA financing) was to co-finance technical assistance under a financial Sector Deepening
Trust (FSDT or FSD Kenya) 8, in particular those FSDT projects which would support
MFIs moving up-market and commercial banks moving down-market, with a view to


7
  At appraisal, this economic group was broadly defined by the number of workers. Firms that employed
50-99 workers were considered as medium-sized, those with 10-49 workers were small-sized, and micro-
sized firms had a workforce of 1-9 employees. The 2009 MSME legislation uses the same definitions in
addition to definitions in terms of annual turnover and capital investment.
8
  The FSDT was later named FSD Kenya.


                                                   4
making available financial products and services suitable to MSMEs. The British
Government’s Department for International Development (DFID) was to provide US$10-
15 million for the establishment of the FSDT.

19.     Subcomponent B(C1B) – SME Risk Capital and Technical Assistance Fund
(US$6.5 million equivalent of IDA financing) aimed to bridge the gap between SMEs and
the banking world. The Risk Capital Fund (RCF) was to be established by a group of
investors including the Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation (IFC), and
would offer a mix of debt, equity and quasi-equity products to eligible investees. The
IDA credit would finance a portion of the fund’s operational expenses and a parallel
technical assistance (TA) fund available to the RCF investees. The IDA credit would
also finance a separate TA Fund for technical assistance to SME investees of other risk-
capital funds. In addition to the IDA financing for technical assistance activities, the
US$15 million Kenya RCF was funded by IFC and other private investments.

20.     Component Two (C2) – Strengthening Enterprise Skills and Market Linkage
(US$6.5 million equivalent): The objective of this Component was to address the
identified market failures to provide skills which would match MSME needs, and offer
adequate information and linkages to MSMEs and farmers at the lower end of the value
chains. This Component consisted of three subcomponents.

21.     Subcomponent A(C2A) – Pilot Value Chain Based Matching Grant Program
(US$4 million equivalent of IDA financing) was a supply-side response to MSMEs’
limited access to business development services, and the lack of linkages between
MSMEs and from MSMEs to markets. Under the matching grant, the IDA credit
proceeds would provide partial financing for eligible training and knowledge-based
services for improving MSME competitiveness, and the rest of the cost was to be borne
by grant receivers. The grants would provide upon the approval of a value-chain based
business plan jointly developed by the main players along the value chain.

22.      Subcomponent B(C2B) – Restructuring of the Industrial Training Levy Scheme
(US$0.5 million equivalent of IDA financing) aimed to modernize the long-existed
scheme to meet the demand for skills in the growing economic sectors. Under this
subcomponent a study would be financed to recommend on: (i) a new industrial skills
funding strategy; (ii) a new legal, regulatory and institutional framework to support
effective delivery of industrial skills; (iii) a future levy fund governance structure and
institutional arrangements; and (iv) the upgrading of the industrial training qualification
structure.

23.    Subcomponent C (C2C) – Global Business School Network/Improving
opportunities and training for entrepreneurs and MSMEs (US$2. million equivalent of
IDA financing) was to (i) introduce a Business Plan/Innovation Competition modeled on
the Development Marketplace; 9 and to (ii) support the local Global Business School


9
  The Development Marketplace is a ten-year World Bank Institute’s program that provides grant funding
for the development and testing of innovative initiatives.


                                                   5
Network (GBSN) Center to develop locally relevant cases and short courses for effective
training of MSME owners and managers in at least three business schools. 10

24.    Component Three (C3) – Improving the Business Environment (US$2 million
equivalent): This Component (US$2 million equivalent) was a response to the identified
investment climate constraints. It was expected to contribute to the reduction of
compliance costs for the formal sector and provide incentives for the MSMEs in the
informal sector to become formal economic entities. This objective was to be achieved
through simplification of the GOK’s tax regime for micro and small businesses and
consolidation of business startup regulations through a one-stop window approach.

25.     Component Four (C4) (US$2.5 million equivalent): The original project design
also included a Component Four to finance project management related activities,
including: i) institutional capacity building and M&E; and ii) a private sector Project
Management Contractor (PMC).

1.6 Revised Components

26.    The original Component Three was dropped at project restructuring in December
2009. The original Component Four became Component Three – Institutional Capacity
Building and Project Management to finance increased capacity building activities of the
Ministry of Industrialization (MOI, project owner) 11 and the PMC contract.

1.7 Other significant changes

27.     Based on a reassessment of the reduced funding needs, the December 2009
restructuring also reallocated the balance of IDA credit proceeds for the original
Component Three (US$2 million) and part of the IDA financing for C1B (US$1 million)
to Component Two and the new Component Three (. As a result, the IDA financing for
Component 1 decreased to US$9.5 million; that for Component Two increased to US$8.1
million; and a total of US$3.45 million was allocated to finance the new Component
Three.

28.    The June 2012 restructuring cancelled US$6 million of the IDA credit proceeds
when it became clear that the Project would not be able to utilize the balance by the
closing date, while the Kenya country program could benefit from the availability of
cancelled IDA funds before the conclusion of the fiscal year.

29.    The closing date of the Project was extended once, from December 31, 2009 to
June 30, 2012.


10
   GBSN stands for Global Business School Network. The IFC sponsored the non-profit GBSN to
strengthen business schools in the developing countries in 2003.
11
   MOI was the legal entity for the overall project when the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOTI) was
split into two ministries in 2008. MOTI was the main Government counterpart and project owner at
appraisal and the first three years of project implementation.


                                                   6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

30.    General design features: A series of analytical work of the GOK and the Bank
Group fed into project design. 12 The Project factored in the findings and
recommendations of those studies, and aimed to address the identified main bottlenecks
of MSME development in Kenya. The design clearly took into account the lessons learnt
by the Bank Group, other donors and the GOK, as well as the international experience in
supporting MSME growth, which featured high in the GOK’s Economic Recovery
Strategy.

31.     The Project was the second of a Joint IDA/IFC MSME Program which was to
introduce innovations in MSME financing and support of market linkages. The design of
this Project was based on the framework of the joint program. IFC brought to the project
design instruments for supporting MSME development which were evolved through
years of direct interactions with the market. The IFC contribution to the project design
was reflected in the introduction of SME risk capital financing model from South Africa
and the technical assistance to the Risk Capital Fund impact assessment IFC’s locally-
based SME Solution Center and the case-study based business education through the
Global Business School Network. IDA contributed to the project design with sector
analysis on MSMEs’ operating environment, good access to policy makers, and
experience in supporting beneficiary capacity building. Notable examples of IDA
contribution to the project design included: (i) the co-sponsoring of FSD Kenya; (ii) the
addition of technical assistance to the investees of the Risk Capital Fund; (iii) the
financing of business development services through a matching grant; and (iv) the
Development Marketplace style business plan competitions.

32.     Project objectives: The PDO was succinct in defining the expected outcomes
(increased productivity and jobs at the participating MSMEs). There was a causal
relationship between the PDO and the designed activities. If the expected results of the
main interventions at the firm level were achievable within the lifetime of the Project, the
designed main activities would directly contribute to the achievement of the PDO.
Improved access to finance including risk capital financing would enable the
participating MSMEs to survive and expand. Business development services would
enable the participating MSMEs to expand plantation acreage, improve product quality,
and get better pricing from buyers along the value chains. Those activities, when
successfully implemented, would result in more jobs and higher sales or profits at the
participating MSMEs.

33.    Scope of the Project: The scope covered the main constraints to the MSME
development in Kenya. However, this added complexity to the Project. There appears to


12
  In addition to the reports referred to in Footnote # 1-4, reports considered for project design included:
GOK: Micro and Small Enterprise Sessional paper; the FIS Administrative Barriers study; and the
IMF/Bank Financial Sector Assessment Program, for example.


                                                      7
have been a misinterpretation of the lesson on the need for an integrated approach to
support MSME development. The integrated approach to put all MSME-related
interventions under one program would be more appropriate at the country level, but
could make the scope of a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) operation too complex for a
client with limited institutional capacity. Some of the designed interventions, in
particular those aimed to improve the business and regulatory environment, might not
directly lead to the achievement of the PDO within the lifetime of the project, due to
policy lags. Adoption of new laws may take time (decision lag); adopted laws may not
be effectively implemented (implementation lag); and implemented laws may not
immediately impact the job demand and labor productivity of the participating MSMEs
(impact lag).

34.     Implementation arrangements: The primary owner of the Project and the main
Government counterpart was the Ministry of Industrialization (MOI) which was formed
in 2008 after a reorganization of the previous Ministry of Trade and Industry (MOTI).
The MOI (represented by a small project secretariat) was to provide policy guidance, and
coordinate between the main stakeholders of the Project. The public – private sector
Project Steering Committee was envisaged as a forum for information sharing and
consensus building on main project issues. Neither the MOI nor the Steering Committee
had experience in IDA financed projects, which could have been alleviated if the design
were to provide more intensive capacity building support under the Project.

35.     The Project assigned project implementation of the firm-level interventions to
various Technical Implementation Partners (TIPs, which were private sector contractors
engaged in accordance with the Bank procurement guidelines). This proved to be crucial
for project implementation. Two inter-governmental agency task forces were responsible
for the implementation of the two main country-level interventions (investment climate
improvement and training levy regime reform).

The Project’s financial and procurement management (as well as the overall M&E) was
entrusted to a private sector accounting firm, called the Project Management Contractor
(PMC). At the time of project appraisal, corruption within the Government was a serious
concern. The outsourcing of project management was to mitigate the risk. However, it
appears that the principle-agent relationship was not well established through clear
fiduciary arrangements (such as the reporting line, the ownership of project information
and outputs, and the contractual remedies when the agent fails to perform). As the
contractor was a private sector firm (as compared to an individual consultant), it had to
follow the firm’s internal review and clearance procedures, in addition to the Government
and Bank procedures. This could cause delays in procurement and disbursement, but the
risk was not factored into the project design.

36.      Risk and risk mitigation: Country-level risks to the success of the Project were
identified and a few of them became the main factors affecting project implementation,
such as the risk related to the “ownership of the training levy?. However, the mitigation
of this risk, like most of the country-level risks identified at appraisal would depend on
factors beyond the Project (e.g. overlapping roles of government agencies for MSME



                                             8
development). It appears that the complexity of the Project scope could have been
reduced if those factors and the challenges in mitigating the risks were adequately
reflected in project design. There was no discussion at appraisal of the project-level risks,
in particular the limited institutional capacity of the main government counterpart in
managing IDA financed projects. The risk of a poorly performing PMC was overlooked,
or at least not sufficiently mitigated by performance based contracts. Those project-level
risks turned out to be major obstacles to project implementation.

2.2 Implementation

37.      Role of TIPs: All but two main activities of the Project were implemented by the
      13
TIPs. For instance, TIPs designed the operational policies of the Risk Capital Fund and
TA Fund and the scope and approach of interventions under the Value Chains. They
engaged and exercised oversight of consultants, and organized stakeholder workshops
and training events. Most of the TIPs demonstrated a strong commitment to their
respective subcomponents. They brought to the Project the private sector insights and
innovations. They were the main force behind the good results achieved at project
closure. Two TIPs also benefited from the timely support of the IFC’s field-based SME
Solution Center (SSC) and GBSN Kenya center in terms of identifying eligible investees
(C1B) and providing guidance to the development of local case studies. The value chain
TIP benefitted from hands-on support from specialized consultants that was co-financed
by a Japanese grant. 14

38.     Project restructuring: The December 2009 project restructuring could be
considered as a turning point in project implementation. Project implementation started
in December 2004 when the IDA credit became effective. However, up to June 2008
only about 20 percent of the expected results were achieved with an IDA financing
disbursement rate of 16 percent. 15 At the same time, project implementation under the
original Component Three suffered long delays in the selection of a suitable consultant.
The performance of the eventually selected consultant turned to be unsatisfactory. By
mid-2009 it became clear that the Component was overtaken by the parallel GOK
reforms. The IFC’s FIMPACT ASSESSMENTS/ICA program had been assisting the
Government to carry out reforms in licensing, tax regulations and procedures. The
mandate of setting up a “one-stop-service? (OSS) function was assigned by law to the
Kenya Investment Authority while the consultant engaged under the Project reported to
the MOI via the PMC. The Kenya Revenue Authority adopted a flat tax rate for small
firms under a new Turnover Tax in 2007. A number of Mid-Term Review assessments in
2008 – 2009 form the analytical basis of the restructuring.


13
   Component 1 was implemented by two TIPs except for the technical assistance for other fund managers
which was implemented by the IFC. Component 2 was implemented by three TIPs, except for
Subcomponent C which was implemented by a government task team. The original Component 3 was
implemented by another government task team.
14
   The SSC program has been wound up recently and the GBSN center earlier.
15
   Priodos & Facet Project Operational Audit and Impact Assessment contractor: Report on the Second
Operational Audit, May 2009. Source Client Connection, “net of Special Account advance which was
included in the disbursement table of the Datasheet?.


                                                  9
39.     The 2009 restructuring (i) reduced the complexity in project design by
discontinuing the original Component Three; (ii) reallocated the IDA credit proceeds
among the main activities to provide more financing for those subcomponents in need; 16
and (iii) extended the original project closing date for two and half years to June 30, 2012.
Those changes were crucial to the eventual achievement of the project objectives. The
June 2012 restructuring was mainly to cancel the unutilized IDA funds (see Section 1.7
for further information).

40.     Overall business environment improvement: Thanks to the reforms in the
business and regulatory environment, Time for Starting a Business reduced from 60 days
in 2003 to 34 days in 2009, and Cost of Starting a Business as a percentage of income per
capita declined from 52 percent to 37 percent during the same period. 17 Those
improvements achieved by the Government (while the original Component Three was
suffering delays) were a main factor for the decision to cancel the component at the 2009
restructuring.

41.      Improved market for MSME financing: The financial services market in
Kenya witnessed significant improvement during the project implementation period.
The FSD Kenya’s contributions made the market more client-oriented. This in general
benefited the project implementation. A particular example was the adoption of the
SACCO Law (led by an intervention under another Bank project 18), and the program’s
institutional development support (e.g. SACCO automation). Thanks to the law, the
sector was regulated from 2011 onward. With the institutional support, the beneficiary
SACCOS was in a better position to move upmarket. Another example of an improving
environment was the enhancement of the MFI regulatory framework thanks to a new
regulation on microfinance institutions (MFIs), and the FSD Kenya program’s direct
support to MFIs.

42.     Procurement delays: By design the Project had only one main type of
procurement activities– selection of consultants under five QCBS packages and a few
other packages. However, except for three contracts (for the PMC, the GBSN and the
matching grant manager), the selection of the consultants suffered various degrees of
delays. The TIPs for Component One were engaged only in December 2006, more than
two years after project initiation, and the engagement of the consultant for the business
plan competition did not take place until February 2009. Those early delays were mainly
caused by the unfamiliarity of the Bank procurement guidelines and the review
procedures on the part of the government counterpart and the PMC, which resulted in the
long time taken to build consensus within the GOK for the selection of the TIPs.


16
   The increased allocations were “funded? by the funding released by the cancellation of the original C3,
and the reduction of the funding originally allocated to C1A and C1B. The main activities under C1 were
performing well with lower IDA financing needs than what was originally anticipated.
17
   For details, please refer to the Project Paper on project restructuring dated December 28, 2009, and the
Doing Business in Kenya of 2004 and 2010.
18
   The Financial and Legal Sector Technical Assistance Project - FLSTAP


                                                     10
Contract renewals after the December 2009 project restructuring took an average of six
months. The multi-layer process of review and clearance was found to be a main factor
of the delays. 19 This was particularly true for the implementation of the technical
assistance for other fund managers (C1B); the training levy restructuring (C2C); and the
business environment improvement (the original Component Three). The delays
reflected the general weaknesses in Kenya’s public procurement system, in particular in
the institutional capacity and the functioning of the procurement market. 20 On the other
hand, the split of the previous Ministry of Trade and Industry into the Ministry of Trade
and the Ministry of Industrialization was a main factor that was out of the control of the
Project.

43.     Disbursement delays: Disbursements against contracts were delayed from time
to time. The delays affected the TIPs’ financial management and the timeliness of the
capacity building activities and the business development services. The multi-layer
review and clearance process was a factor. While the PMC was responsible to manage
the local currency project account (about 65 percent of project costs were in local
currency), the replenishment of the account was up to the MOI, which also had to go
through the government internal clearance procedures established by the Treasury.
Delinquencies in budgeting for the local account, such as those in 2009 – 2010 and
towards the end of the Project, also caused serious payments disruptions. When the
project account was not replenished in time, payments to the expensed activities were
delayed. In the case of the FSDT subcomponent (C1A), the delays were caused by a lack
of alignment between the Bank guidelines and the Government’s procedures; as well as
between the Government procedures and the book-keeping practice of the multi-donor
trust fund.

44.     Project management capacity: The delays in procurement and disbursement
once again revealed that the institutional capacity of the MOI as the project owner should
have been strengthened early on in project implementation. The outsourcing of the
procurement and financial management functions weakened the oversight by the MOI.
The private sector contractor, like the main government counterpart, did not have much
experience in IDA financed projects and the uneven performance of the PMC further
affected project management in procurement, financial management and M&E. The
problem was highlighted in the Med -Term Review (MTR) and the PMC contract
renewal after the 2009 restructuring enhanced the monitoring of PMC performance.

45.    Personnel changes: The Permanent Secretary of the main Government
counterpart was replaced at least three times throughout the project implementation
period. A replacement of the Permanent Secretary in late 2005 in particular led to



19
   A procurement package together with the related procurement documents had to be reviewed and/or
cleared by the PMC, the Project Secretariat and the MOI before it was sent for IDA review and no-
objection.
20
   Kenya Public Procurement Oversight Authority: Assessment of Procurement System in Kenya, October
2007


                                                11
months of delays as the project design and personnel arrangements was subjected to
another round of reviews.

46.      Political crisis: The end-2007 – early-2008 political crisis in Kenya affected
project implementation, in particular for the Business Development Services (BDS)
activities under the cotton-to-garment value chain in a couple of provinces. While the
first round of the main procurement activities was completed before the breakout of the
crisis, the turmoil affected the disbursement pace and the collection of the baseline data
for the project M&E, since consultants could not travel to Kenya until late 2008. The
travel difficulties at the time also affected the pace of project implementation under the
other subcomponents.

47.    Other: Droughts in 2009 – 2012 affected the results of the value chain
interventions in terms of contracted cotton planting acreage and reduced coffee produce.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

48.     M&E indicators: The design of the M&E indicators represented an effort to
quantify the expected results and make them specific and measurable. The design of the
M&E indicators also reflected the early stage of the Bank Group’s efforts to refocus on
results. The PDO outcome indicators were quite typical economic measurements of
competitiveness over the medium to long term. There were minor discrepancies in the
wording of the second outcome indicator and the two intermediate results indicators
(regarding C2B and C2C) between the PAD and the DCA. The indicators were realigned
by the 2009 project restructuring.

49.     Outcome indicators: The two outcome indicators turned out to be quite
challenging for project M&E in addition to the limited M&E capacity at the overall
project level. It appears that the first PDO Outcome Indicator (“at least 2,500 new jobs
created?) was set too high to be achieved within the normal life of a Bank financed
project in Kenya (5 years). The Outcome Indicator was based on the experience of BP
Ltd South Africa. However, South Africa’s MSME workforce was much larger than that
in Kenya. 21 The economic share of South African SMEs was also much higher (>50
percent of GDP in South Africa vs. >18 percent in Kenya). 22 Furthermore, at the time of
project appraisal, the South Africa risk capital financing scheme had been in operation for
more than 20 years while a similar model was not yet introduced in Kenya. With the
benefit of hindsight, it would have been more realistic if the employment indicator had
taken into consideration the differences in the size of the economy and the sector between
Kenya and South Africa. In addition, the job creation indicator proved to be difficult to


21
   By the South Africa Small Business Act 1996 (amended in 2004), micro enterprise employs 1-20
workers, small enterprise 21-50 workers and medium enterprise 51-200 workers (except for the agriculture
sector). Kenya’s definition of MSMEs in terms of employment is similar to South Africa’s MSME
definition for the agriculture sector.
22
   Abor and Cartney, Issues in SME Development in Ghana and South Africa, International Research
Journal of Finance and Economics, ISSN 1450-2887 Issue 39 (2010)


                                                   12
verify under the value chain subcomponent as most of the beneficiaries were smallholder
farmers and primary processors, who used more seasonal than full-time workers.

50.     The second PDO Outcome Indicator measured productivity increase by value
added per worker (which was to be “increased by 20 percent?). Value added per worker
is an often used indicator of labor productivity. The challenge to the Project was the
difficulty in measuring value added per worker of training and consultants’ reports, as it
has been to well-trained economists worldwide. It would be very difficult for the project
entities to quantify the indirect impact of the interventions and translate it into value
added per worker. Even for the components where the project interventions would have
direct impact on labor productivity, the TIPs did not have the in-house capacity to collect,
verify, and process data; e.g., to translate casual labor used into number of full time job
equivalent and based on which, the calculation of value added per worker. While the
problem was alleviated by the built-in arrangement of project impact assessment (two
surveys), it affected the regular monitoring and reporting of progress towards achieving
the outcomes.

51.     Intermediate Results Indicators: In general those indicators were specific and
measurable, although some of them were more of component outputs rather than results.
However, the indicator for C1A – financial sector deepening (70 percent of beneficiary
financial institutions achieve their business targets) was difficult to monitor and evaluate
mainly due to concerns related to business confidentiality and transaction cost of
collecting and analyzing that level of information. The indicator was clearly for a Result,
and the problem could have been addressed if the project design factored in the concerns
and provided for the related cost (at least partially). Instead of the requirement for
achieving the general business targets, a few but critical targets could have been singled
out (e.g., NPL level, business expansion target in the MSME financing market, etc.).

52.     Data collection: The Project provided for an impact assessment (IA) coupled
with “operational audits?, which reflected the international experience on evaluating
developmental impact. The impact assessment was expected to collect baseline data in
year one, update them at mid-term and before project closure. The operational audits
would validate the robustness of the impact assessement methodology and review project
progress towards achieving the objectives. The Impact Assessment consultant was
engaged in late 2007, three years after project initiation. While baseline data collection
started shortly thereafter, the baseline report was not available until September 2008 and
was only finalized in June 2010. The final assessment (second survey) was completed in
May-June 2012. The impact assessment contract was directly managed by the PMC
which was slow in providing guidance or feedback. Not all the participating MAMEs
were willing or able to provide the data needed. The political turmoil at the end of 2007
and early 2008 acerbated the challenges faced by the impact assessment consultant.

53.     The information collected by the PMC for a while focused on the uses of IDA
credit proceeds, and there was no clear guidance on TIPs’ project status reports, resulting
in different forms and focuses of the reports. This problem was addressed in 2009 – 2010
when the PMC used a unified template to collect information. However, the template



                                            13
was not aligned with the Results Framework and its targets (except for the requirement
on the number of jobs created). It also appeared that data from the TIPs were not
diligently verified and transferred into PMC’s M&E reports to the Project Secretary and
the Bank.

54.     On the other hand, the TIPs maintained their own data collection systems. The
TIP for the Risk Capital Fund and TA Fund collected and maintained data on
employment, sales (turnovers) and profits of the investees, as well as the number and
nature of investment and technical assistance activities. The TIP for the matching grant
collected and maintained detailed data on planting acreage, quantity of the cash crops
produced, unit price of the produce, quality of the produce, etc., in addition to data on the
matching grant and the business development services activities. The TIP for the
business plan competition did follow-up interviews of the winners of the competition to
learn about the effect of the competitions. Those data collection efforts may not
necessarily be in full alignment with the Results Framework, but were crucial to the-end-
of-project analysis and this ICR.

55.     M&E uses: The uses of the M&E framework were inadequate. It appears that
the TIPs were not necessarily familiar with the Results Framework agreed upon at project
appraisal. The three Operational Audits in 2007 – 2010 provided good insights on the
problems in project M&E and proposed a performance monitoring scheme aligned with
the Results Framework (November 2007), but it seems no action was taken on that and
other recommendations. 23 There was no regular reporting on the progress (or lack of it)
towards meeting the Intermediate indicators or achieving the PDO outcomes (except for
the number of new jobs created by the investees of the risk capital fund).

56.     The PMC was charged with the overall project M&E, but did not have the
capacity for the task, especially since the task under this project required good socio-
economic analytical expertise and knowledge in both urban SME development and rural
cash crop businesses. It appears there was a misunderstanding that the impact assessment
at the end of the Project would do the regular M&E job for the Project Secretariat and the
PMC. 24

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

57.     Safeguard: The Project was a Category C operation.

58.     Procurement: The Project was in compliance with the Bank guidelines based on
the available information. The delays in procurement could be partly attributed to the
nuances in ensuring the compliance.


23
   Triodos & Facet: Report on the Operation Audit of the MSME Competitive Project, Bunnik/Nairobi,
November 2007, May 2009 and April 2010
24
   An impact assessment was mainly to verify and validate the reported progress and results; rather than
monitor project implementation and evaluate progress made based on which prompt actions should be
undertaken to endure the achievement of the project objectives.


                                                    14
59.     Financial management: There were issues related to account reconciliation and
payments documentation in the first phase of project implementation which were
addressed in 2008 – 2009. The Project was audited by the Kenya National Audit Office
(a semi-autonomous government agency), and most of the project audit reports were
unqualified, although the need to educate the Government’s auditors of the differences
between cash accounting (government standards) and accrued accounting was a challenge
for a while. The MOI was responsible for the internal audits of the Project, but did not
carry them out on a regular basis. Financial planning was weak, contributing to the
funding gap of the local currency project account in particular towards the end of the
Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

60.      Financial Sector Deepening Trust (C1A): The Trust is a well-funded multi-
year program managed by FSD Kenya. 25 In the program’s 2011 – 2015 strategy, the
target is a 50 percent increase in the number of SMEs served by financial sector.

61.     Risk capital fund and TA Fund (C1B): The current investment fund (Kenya
SME Fund) and the TA Fund will be wound up in the first quarter of 2013. Discussions
are under way between the GOK and the IFC to turn the fund into an evergreen
investment vehicle, similar to the South Africa model. 26 The parent company of the TIP
responsible for this subcomponent is considering raising a Fund 2 for Eastern Africa in
2012. The technical assistance fund extended interest free loans to needed investees and
proceeds recovered have been used to finance new technical assistance activities. Based
on the IFC information, various entities have approached the Bank Group’s private sector
investment arm to collaborate on developing and implementing similar investment model
(risk capital fund complemented by technical assistance support).

62.     Value-chain based matching grant (C2A): The TIP documented the lessons
learnt before the project closure in a series of project documentation reports which
contained detailed project outputs, the pending agenda and the recommendations for way
forward. Based on those reports, the TIP has decided to retain the matching grant
management team for the next 24 months. Efforts are under way to mobilize funds to
finance continuous business development services support to farmers and MSMEs along
the value chains. A general proposal for the national rollout of a matching grant for the
coffee and leather value chains was presented to a number of potential donors including
the World Bank.

63.    Business plan competition (C2C): The Ministry of Industrialization has decided
to work with the private sector to make the competitions a regular event in supporting
MSME development in Kenya.


25
  www.fsdkenya.org
26
  BPI Kenya is the TIP for the subcomponent and its parent company is Business Partner Ltd South
Africa.


                                                 15
64.     Case-study based business training (C2C): The participating universities have
routinely used the cases developed under the Project in their executive training programs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

65.       Rating: The overall rating of relevance is substantial.

66.     Objectives: Following the successful conclusion of the Economic Recovery
Strategy, the GOK adopted a long-term development strategy – Kenya Vision 2030.
Vision 2030 aims to turn the country into “a globally competitive and prosperous nation?
by the year 2030. 27 The strategy recognizes the important role of MSEs in creating jobs,
increasing productivity and improving household incomes, and attaches high priority to
the MSE development. Inclusive financial services are another economic priority. The
current Bank Country Partnership Strategy (2010 – 2013) directs the resources to support
the implementation of Vision 2030. Objective 1 of the Bank strategy is “Unleashing
Kenya’s growth potential l?, to be achieved through assistance on improving Kenya’s
overall investment climate and MSME firm-level competitiveness. Making the financial
sector more responsive to Kenya’s business needs is another main theme of Bank
assistance. The Bank has also highlighted the importance of market linkages for the rural
population. Viewed against the present Government and Bank strategies, the relevance
of the Project’s objectives to increase MSMEs’ competitiveness were considered as high.

67.      Design: As discussed in Section 2, the design was based on solid sector-wide
analysis, and adopted innovations to address the identified bottlenecks. The core
interventions at the firm-level had a clear causal relationship with the intended project
outcomes. The design adopted several innovative/experimental delivery mechanisms,
inter alia: (i) the support of East Africa’s first multi-donor trust fund (FSD Kenya) for
coordinated technical assistance to improve access to finance; (ii) the introduction of a
new risk capital financing model (SME Risk Capital Fund and TA Fund); (iii) the value-
chain-based matching grant interventions; and (iv) the application of other successful
international experience in facilitating MSME development (i.e., case-study-based
business training and the Development Market-style support to business plan
development).

68.     The design, however, could have been entirely composed of those firm-level
intervention, in particular since the design and implementation of those innovations were
already highly challenging. The economy-level interventions (e.g. on investment climate
and government levy scheme) may not directly lead to firm-level productivity increase
within three – five years due to the policy lags discussed in Section 2. This type of
interventions usually requires intensive inter-government agency coordination, which



27
     The GOK: Kenya Vision 2030, 2007; www.vision2030.go.ke


                                                 16
could consume a lot of the limited project capacity. 28 The linkages between the
components should have been strengthened by an effective arrangement. In that scenario,
for example, the winners of the business plan competitions would be referred to risk
capital financing. The financial institutions supported by the Project through the FSD
Kenya would work with the matching grant to finance the much needed production inputs
for farmers. The impact of the Project would have been much greater.

69.     Given the causality between the PDO and most of the designed interventions; the
innovative features of the design; and the positive effect of the December 2009
restructuring (which reduced the design complexity), the project design rating is
substantial.

70.      Implementation: The implementation relevance rating of the Project is
substantial. Although the Project suffered serious delays under several subcomponents in
the first two to three years due to the factors discussed in Section 2, implementation
started to accelerate in 2007 and went into full swing after the 2009 restructuring. Of the
eight intermediate results, five were met or exceeded, two were largely met and one was
partially met. Those achievements enabled the Project to remain relevant. The Bank’s
implementation assistance was in general responsive to the changing needs, as evidenced
by the 2009 project restructuring which removed the original Component Three when the
targeted improvements of the business environment had already taken place.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

71.     Achievement of the PDO: There has been reasonable progress in achievement
of the PDO. This is confirmed by two separate datasets, one provided by the impact
assessment and the other by the TIPs, for the two core interventions. The impact
assessment, which this ISR considers to have the more robust findings, was based on
survey samples under subcomponents C1A, C1B and C2A, and it concluded that at least
1,425 jobs were created. The impact assessment explicitly found that the Project was
“especially successful in boosting MSMEs’ revenue and profit? and that “the project
impact on employment is positive?. It also clearly indicated that the estimate of new jobs
created was at the low end, as the assessment was only able to cover one of the
beneficiary financial institutions under subcomponent C1A (Equity Bank) and it did not
cover all the risk capital investees. Hence, the actual number of jobs created is believed
to be significantly higher than the explicitly-documented number, which can be
considered to constitute a floor for the total number of jobs created. Table 1 summarizes
the impact assessment consultant’s conclusions.

                      Table 1: Project Impact Assessment Conclusions:
  Original Outcome Indicator                  End Results                     Impact Assessment
 At least 2,500 new jobs created      •   C1A – financial sector            • Positive impact (1,425


28
  It should be noted that combining multiple level interventions was a feature of the pilot Joint IDA/IFC
Program. The October 2006 Paper to the Bank Board recommended that “no substantive replication of the
Program should be considered until specific results are available and evaluated?.


                                                   17
  Original Outcome Indicator                  End Results             Impact Assessment
 in participating MSMEs                deepening: 170 new jobs         new jobs created)
                                       (by the Equity Bank
                                       customer sample
                                       researched)
                                   •   C1B – SME risk capital
                                       fund and TA Fund: 290 new
                                       jobs (by the investee
                                       researched)
                                   •   C2A – 965 full-time
                                       equivalent new jobs (by the
                                       joint sample of coffee and
                                       cotton-to-garment value
                                       chains researched)
 Value added per worker            •   C1A – financial sector       • Especially successful
 increases by 20 percent in            deepening: 7 percent            (value added/worker
 participating MSMEs                   increase in value added per     increased by 7percent
                                       worker (by the Equity Bank      – 320 percent)
                                       customer sample
                                       researched)
                                   •   C1B – SME Risk Capital
                                       and TA Fund: 60 percent
                                       increase in value added per
                                       worker (by the investee
                                       researched)
                                   •   C2A –320 percent increase
                                       per farm (by the joint
                                       sample of coffee and cotton-
                                       to-garment value chains
                                       researched)
Source: Triodos & Facet: Kenya MSME Competitiveness Project Impact Assessment, June 2012

72.      The second dataset, based on reports from the TIPs for subcomponents C1B and
C2A (coffee farmers’ cooperatives only), concluded that 1,803 jobs were created. This
was also the number of jobs created reported in the project’s last Implementation Status
Report, which was prepared before the impact assessment was finalized. The TIP data
concerning implementation of the SME risk capital investment support activities tracked
the positive changes in the investees’ sales (turnovers), profits and employment, and
concerning the value-chain based matching grant it presented increases in the production,
produce quality, unit price and uses of casual labor of the coffee farmers’ cooperatives.
This ICR takes cognizance of this TIP data, but because verification of these data is
challenging, for the purpose of this ICR, the more robust dataset provided by the impact
assessment is used to assess PDO achievement.

73.     Main Contributors of PDO: At appraisal, it was assumed that the achievement
of the PDO in improved productivity and increased jobs would mainly come from two
Subcomponents – the Risk Capital and TA Fund, and, the Value-Chain-based Matching
Grant (C2A). Those core interventions achieved the expected results which directly led
to the achievement of the PDO.


                                               18
74.      C1B – Risk Capital and TA Fund: With sizeable and long-term risk capital
investments (average size of US$200,000 with a 5-year term), and close to two hundreds
technical assistance loans, the SME investees were able to expand production, improve
sales, retain or hire workers, and raise profitability. Table 2 provides the results chain
from C1B to the PDO.

                             Table 2: C1B – From outputs to outcomes
                                                           Before                 After       percent
                                                        Acquisition             Acquisition   Change
     Average annual revenue (KSh, mlln)                      39.2                  55.2         41
     Average annual EBITDA (KSh, mlln) 29                    6.2                   6.8          10
     Average total direct employment (No)                     31                    39          28
Source: BPI Kenya, August 2012

75.     C2A – Value chain based matching grant: The BDS provided to farmers and
primary processors were wide ranging, such as training, quality enhancement, production
technique improvements, crop certification, branding, pricing process improvements,
market information provision, facilitation of access to credit, and product design and
development (e.g. four new Kikou designs). 30 Those interventions led to higher yield,
more produce in top grade and increased income for farmers. Table 3 illustrates the
results chain from C2A to the PDO.

              Table 3: C2A – From Outputs to Outcomes – Coffee Value Chain:
                                                      Before         After                    percent
                                                   Intervention Intervention                  Change
 Average production (kg, mlln)                          1.3           1.7                        63
 Average price per kg (KSh)                             34             83                       176
 Product in top grade (percent of total produce)        32             54                        90
 Average casual labor used                              96            171                        44
Source: Deloitte Consultancy Kenya, May 2012

76.   Other contributors of PDO: Other subcomponents of the Project, especially the
FSDT (C1A) and the case-study-based business training and the business plan
competitions (C2C), also contributed to the achievement of the project objectives.

77.     C1A – Financial sector deepening: The main contribution of this subcomponent
to the achievement of the PDO was the establishment and the success of the multi-donor
trust FSDT (FSD Kenya). The Bank was one of the founding donors of the trust fund
through the IDA financing provided under this subcomponent. In addition, the Bank
participated in the provision of policy guidance to the program on a regular basis, and
was a partner to the development and adoption of the key FSD Kenya medium-term
strategies (the most recent was the 2011 -2015 strategy). The 2010 impact assessment of



29
     EBITDA stands for Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.
30
     Kikoys are traditional garments.


                                                    19
the FSD Kenya activities in 2005 – 2010 found that the trust fund had made significant
contributions to the improvement of an enabling policy and regulatory environment. The
assessment report also acknowledged the program’s contributions to a shift in Kenya
towards a more client-oriented market, and to the key service providers’ transformation. 31
The Project’s financing contributions were mainly to the projects under the program’s
inclusive growth theme, which included (but not necessarily co-financed by the Project):
supply chain finance facility, skills development growth cap, Northern Kenya Investment
Fund, and the Credit Information Sharing Initiative (jointly with CARE).

78.    C2C – Improving opportunities and training for entrepreneurs and MSMEs: The
main contribution of this subcomponent to the achievement of the PDO was: (i) the
introduction of the case-study based methodology into regular university business
education programs; (ii) the accumulation of local knowledge in MSME development
through case study development; and (iii) the support to entrepreneurs in developing
business plans acceptable to banks through the business plan competitions.

79.     Achievement of the Intermediate ResultsMost of the Intermediate Result
targets of the Project were reached or exceeded, contributing to the achievement of the
PDO. The following table provides a snapshot of the results achieved under the core
interventions against the original targets. For a complete report of the achievement of the
Intermediate Results, please refer to the Datasheet, and Annex 2 of this ICR which also
provided a more detailed discussion on the results achieved by component.

                  Table 4: Achievement of Intermediate Results – A snapshot
           Original Intermediate Result                                  End-Target Achieved
     C1B – SME risk capital fund and TA fund:
     •  At least US$11.5m in loans and quasi-equity        •   US$17 million in gross loans and quasi-equity
        investment to SMEs disbursed through SME               investments were extended to SMEs with a loan
        risk capital fund and facilitated through              loss rate below 7.5 percent
        targeted technical assistance, with loan loss
        rate below 10 percent
     C2A – Pilot value chain based matching grant:
     • A comprehensive supply chain strategy,              •   Three strategies were developed and
        which responds to market, technical, human             implemented for the Coffee, the Cotton-to-
        resource and financial needs of key players            Garment and the Leather value chains.
        along the entire supply chain, is created for at   •   A strategy was also developed for the Pyrethrum
        least three sectors                                    value chain.
     • Increased subcontracting in local supply            •   Subcontracting was practiced in cotton ginneries.
        chains providing at least 50% percent                  Between the three beneficiary ginneries,
        increase in the level of local sourcing                subcontracting increased by 10 times, with 5,600
                                                               cotton farmers becoming subcontractors.

3.3 Efficiency




31
   Oxford Policy Management and Center for Development Studies: FSD Kenya Impact Assessment,
January 2010.


                                                       20
80.     NPV analysis at appraisal: At appraisal, an economic analysis was conducted.
Recognizing the difficulties in applying standard economic analysis to the Project, the
analysis used a 12-year timeframe, and a number of assumptions which turned out to be
unrealistic since there were no existing data on risk capital investees and effects of BDS
interventions under value chains in Kenya. The reference country (South Africa) for
estimating the efficiency of the risk capital fund was not really a good choice due to the
differences in the economic size and structure of the two countries. In general, research
conducted by many international experts has proved that it is not very robust to use the
traditional economic analysis methodology to quantify the monetary value of capacity
building activities and policy advice. 32

81.     NPV analysis at ICR: For the purpose of this ICR, information on the net
present value (NPV) and the internal rate of return (IRR) of the risk capital fund were
collected, and proxy NPV and IRR were calculated for the value-chain based matching
grant, using the same discount rate as at appraisal (14 percent), and the cash flows of the
coffee value chain beneficiaries as proxy for all the value chain beneficiaries. The results
are presented in the following table:

                     Table 5: Project Efficiency – Traditional Analysis:
                                    NPV (US$ million)                    IRR (%)
                               At Appraisal      At Closure     At Appraisal   At Closure
 Risk capital and TA facility  0.3              0.39           14.7           24 – 27
 Value-chain based matching    -1.6             0.55           1.6            102
 grant
Sources: BPI Kenya, Deloitte Kenya, and ICR team calculation

82.      At appraisal, a NPV and an IRR were also estimated for the other subcomponents
(except for C1A), but the assumptions for the calculations were not clear. Given the fact
that: (i) it is quite challenging (and can be time consuming) to quantify the benefits of
training and consulting services even for the international research community; and (ii)
the original Component Three was cancelled, this ICR has not done the traditional
economic analysis on the benefits of the other main activities.

83.     Qualitative analysis: Qualitative analysis of project efficiency has been
conducted for this ICR by comparing the status before project interventions and the
benefits the Project brought about. Table 6 is a snapshot of the analysis for C1A –
Access to finance and C2C – Enterprise Skills. For the complete qualitative analysis,
please refer to Annex 3.

                         Table 6: Project Efficiency – Qualitative Analysis




32
   For example, the European Commission found that “Some results can be valued directly in monetary
terms, others can be quantified but not valued, while others can be neither valued nor quantified without an
enormous effort, which would generally not be worthwhile?. Financial and economic analysis of
development projects, ECO-FIN, DG Europe Aid, 2000


                                                    21
 Component         Before                After             Actual          Actual
                   Project              Project           Financing      Financing
                                                         (percent of    (percent of
                                                          appraisal         2009
                                                          estimate)    Restructuring
                                                                       Reallocation)
Component     •   Existing FIs     •   An independent 50.5             50.5
C1A –             unable to            and well-
Improving         provide              funded trust
Access to         financial            (FSD Kenya)
Finance:          products             supported
                  tailored to          initiatives for
                  MSME needs           the
                                       development of
                                       the financial
                                       service market
                                       and improved
                                       the overall
                                       access to
                                       finance
                                       indicators of
                                       Kenya
                                   •   A building
                                       society
                                       financier was
                                       turned into a
                                       top-five bank
                                       providing SME
                                       financing
                                       (Equity Bank)
                                   •   New financing
                                       products such
                                       as weather-
                                       index-based
                                       insurance and
                                       warehouse
                                       receipts finance
                                       were
                                       introduced.
Component     •   MSMEs had        •   Follow-up        112.1          98
C2C –             difficulty           interviews of
Enterprise        obtaining            the 24 winners
skills            loans as their       of the first
development       business plans       round of the
                  were often           BPC found that
                  deemed               none
                  below-               experienced
                  standards by         rejection by the
                  banks                banks and 75
                                       percent of the



                                        22
   Component            Before               After              Actual          Actual
                        Project             Project            Financing       Financing
                                                              (percent of     (percent of
                                                               appraisal         2009
                                                               estimate)     Restructuring
                                                                             Reallocation)
                                           new ideas were
                                           being
                                           implemented.
                                       •   Because the
                                           event is very
                                           popular, the
                                           MOI has
                                           decided to
                                           sponsor it on a
                                           regular basis.
                   •   Technical,     •    Training now      206.7           124
                       vocational and      provided
                       educational         through case-
                       training in         study-based
                       Kenya was not       methodology,
                       geared with         TA and BDS,
                       MSMEs’              as well as
                       practical           business plan
                       needs               competitions in
                                           bookkeeping,
                                           managing HR,
                                           marketing,
                                           product and
                                           design
                                           improvement,
                                           etc.

84.     Funds utilization: The estimated project cost in foreign currency was US$22
million equivalent at appraisal, for which an IDA credit of the same size was provided.
At project closure, US$15.99 million or 72.7 percent of the IDA credit was disbursed.
The underutilization of the IDA credit could be characterized by both efficiency gain as
well as opportunity loss. On the downside, it appears that the project design and original
costing did not adequately factor in the difficulties in engaging suitable project
implementing partners and the time needed to complete the detailed design and initiate
the innovative solutions. The scarce IDA funding locked by the over-costing of some
subcomponents could have been used to finance other projects or to enhance the
implementation capacity.

85.    On the upside, evidence of efficiency in utilizing the project financing can be
found in the following:




                                            23
      •   While IDA funding was budgeted to finance the operational expenses of the
          Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund, the fund manager (the TIP for C1B) did not
          utilize the funding as they were self-sustainable.
      •   The same TIP was able to finance more technical assistance loans with
          repayments of earlier TA loans; hence the lower than expected drawdown of the
          IDA financing for the TA Facility. Those two “deviations? from the original
          design led to a savings of over US$1 million (as compared to the reallocation of
          the IDA financing at the 2009 project restructuring).
      •   While the actual average size of the value-chain-based matching grant was ten
          times smaller than the appraisal estimate (US$75,000 vs. US$750,000), the
          matching grant supported 45 projects in four value chains as compared to the
          design estimates of 12 projects in three value chains. This resulted in an over-
          utilization of the IDA financing (115.6 percent of the reallocation of the IDA
          financing at the 2009 project restructuring). This performance helped improve the
          Project’s disbursement rate.
      •   After the successful conclusion of the first round of case study development and
          business plan competition, the TIPs launched the second round of the activities.
          As a result, the appraisal estimates of the number of case studies (100) and
          competition participants (200) were exceeded (137 new case studies and 5,500
          BPC participants), and the IDA credit proceeds reallocated at the 2009 project
          restructuring for the two activities fully utilized (98 percent for BPCs and 124
          percent for case-study based business education).

86.     Assessment of project efficiency: Based on the above quantitative and
qualitative analysis, the project efficiency could be considered as substantial.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

87.       Rating: The overall outcome rating is moderately satisfactory.

88.      Project relevance: The project objectives were highly relevant to the strategic
priorities of the GOK and the Bank at both project appraisal and closure. The project
design was substantial to the achievement of the project objectives, and project
implementation was also substantial in terms of achievement of the expected results.

89.       Project efficacy: The Project in general achieved the expected outcomes.

90.    Project efficiency: Based on the quantitative and qualitative analysis, the Project
was substantial in efficiency.

91.    The above factors which have been elaborated in Section 3.1 – 3.3 of this ICR, are
the main justifications for a possible satisfactory rating. However, the design complexity,
the implementation delays, and the less than satisfactory performance in project M&E
brought down the rating to moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts


                                              24
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

92.    It appears the SME Risk Capital and TA Fund (C1B) brought significant benefits
to female entrepreneurs and workers:

      •   38 percent of the technical assistance beneficiaries were women owned SMEs;
          and
      •   48 percent of new jobs created went to female workers (out of the total 1,030 new
          jobs created).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

93.    The Project is likely to have the following longer-term impact on the institutional
development of Kenya’s MSME sector:

      •   The FSD Kenya program demonstrated the benefits of a market development
          approach, which has been copied in Kenya and other African countries (e.g.
          Malawi and Tanzania assessment). At the micro-level, the main institutions
          supported by FSD Kenya reached out to rural, female and younger clients. At the
          sector/meso-level, business services to retail providers were improved. At the
          macro-level, policy formulation became more evidence-based. 33
      •   The quasi-equity risk capital financing model (Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund and
          TA Fund) introduced an alternative risk capital financing approach that is
          different from the traditional venture capital model and have a better chance of
          success in a market where investor exist options are limited especially for
          investments in startup or first phase growing SMEs. Because of the success in the
          experiment, the parent company (BPI based in South Africa) is mobilizing funds
          for a new East African Risk Capital Fund, and more risk capital fund managers
          within Kenya are seeing financing for technical assistance activities.
      •   The value-chain based matching grant revitalized a number of industry societies
          and regularized the apex committees’ activities. If maintained, the institutional
          strengthening would have lasting effect on improved market linkages for cash
          crop/leather, and primary processing MSMEs.
      •   The case-study based methodology is now regularly applied in the participating
          universities with contents on local business development cases.
      •   The business plan competition model that provides mentoring in business
          planning to entrepreneurs has been adopted by the MOI as a regular program to
          support MSME development in Kenya.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

94.       Not applicable


33
     OPM & CDS: fsd Kenya Impact Assessment Summary Report, January 2010


                                                25
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

95.     The end-of-project impact assessment was conducted in May – June, 2012.
Below are the excerpts of the Executive Summary of the final report (for details please
refer to Annex 5 of this ICR):

 “Based on the findings detailed above, two key conclusions emerge from this impact
study:

A. The MSME Project has been successful in improving the performance of the MSMEs
that received support from the TIPs included in the research:

           •   The project has been especially successful in boosting MSME revenue
               and profit. The impact on value added per worker is also positive: the
               different sub-components have resulted in increases ranging from 5percent
               to 60percent.
           •   The project impact on employment creation is positive. A lower estimate
               of the jobs created by the three researched sub-components is around
               1,500.

B. Although similar services were provided to the beneficiaries of the various sub-
components, some beneficiaries applied these services more efficiently to their enterprise
than others and hence realized stronger growth of their performance.

As can be seen the Project has had positive impact on the beneficiaries. In addition, the
research allows for a number of policy recommendations to be made:

           •   For the non-agricultural sector, focus future financial access interventions on
               MSME that are more recently established, active in the service sector and/or
               based in Nairobi.
           •   Continue supporting the coffee and cotton sector, and perhaps other agricultural
               sectors, with a focus on farmers with an entrepreneurial attitude because these
               tend to make better use of the services.?

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

96.    Rating: The risk to development outcome is rated as significant.

97.     Government: The risk is moderate. As discussed elsewhere in this ICR, the
development of MSME sector remains a high priority in the Government’s development
strategy. However, the Government’s institutional capacity in implementing the strategy
needs substantial enhancement. Coordination among several government agencies in
charge of MSME development remains a challenge.

98.     Technical: The risk is moderate. The new instrument for SME risk capital
financing is well established and being copied by other fund managers. The significant
benefits from tightening up market linkages have demonstrated the merits of the value-


                                              26
chain based approach. Case-study teaching methodology for business education has been
adopted. The challenge is how soon the newcomers could copy the success.

99.     Institutional: The risk from interruptions in institutional and financial support is
considered as significant. While the interventions under the Project are expected to have
longer-term institutional impact on the MSME development (see Section 3.5), the time
may be too short for the changes to take root as they became visible only in the last three
years of project implementation. To sustain the progress made, the new institutions
established under the Project will need continuous support, such as the innovative SME
risk capital financing model and the revitalized value chain cooperatives. At the time of
this ICR, no concrete steps have been adopted to provide funding and/or technical
assistance to sustain longer-term institutional development.

100. Other factors: The positive factors considered include: (i) the IFC is taking the
lead in the discussions on mobilizing more funding or establishment of an evergreen TA
fund; (ii) the SME Risk Capital and TA Fund will continue in operation until the first
quarter of 2013; (iii) the private sector SME financier (BPI International) has strong
capability in raising funds to replicate the financing model; and (iv) the TIP for the value-
chain based matching grant has decided to retain the project management team for 24
months while they are proactively seeking donor funding for the next round of BDS
activities. More importantly, the project beneficiaries demonstrated a strong buy-in of
the new approaches for enhancing their competitiveness. Based on the TIPs reports, the
beneficiaries are motivated to continue to improve business planning, expand operation,
or strengthening market linkages for the agriculture produce.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

101. Rating: The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is moderately
satisfactory.

102. Project design: The Bank anchored the project design on a number of economic
analyses. The project objectives and the main activities as designed were consistent with
the GOK and the Bank strategies. The combined Bank/IFC task team brought the Bank’s
strengths in policy dialogue and economy-wide/sector-level knowledge together with
IFC’s familiarity with the market and the experience in private sector driven interventions
at the firm level. As a result, a new risk capital financing model as well as international
practices in enhancing value chains, grooming entrepreneurs and business education was
introduced in Kenya.

103. The Bank team did not give adequate consideration to the complexity of the
“integrated approach? for MSME development which mixed firm-level interventions
with economy-wide policy reforms, and required multiple government agencies to
coordinate the pace and priorities of their reform programs. The risks at the project level


                                             27
were not properly identified, in particular that of the limited project management capacity
and of the separation of project ownership from project management.

104.   There was no QAG review on quality at entry.

(b) Quality of Supervision

105.   Rating: The Bank performance in project supervision is moderately satisfactory.

Project supervision: The Bank took actions when major problems were identified in
project implementation, including those in procurement and financial management. The
ISRs reported the problems and adjusted project ratings accordingly. The replacement of
the Task Team Leader at a time when the Project could clearly have benefited from a
comprehensive mid-term review delayed the much needed restructuring; nevertheless the
December 2009 restructuring was instrumental to the eventual achievement of the project
objectives. The IFC’s SME Solution Center (SSC) and the local Global Business School
Network (GBSN) center provided strong support from the field to the implementation of
the SME risk capital investment subcomponent and the case study development
subcomponent. The Bank team also provided technical support to the implementation of
the activities under the value-chain based matching grant. The main downside factor for
the performance rating was the weaknesses in the utilization of the M&E framework (see
Section 2.3 on M&E for a detailed discussion).

106. The rating for Bank performance has also accounted for the fact that information
of the target groups (MSMEs) was scarce before the Project; and as the second project in
a quite new Bank/IFC joint program at the time of project appraisal, the project design
was somewhat experimental. Some innovative delivery mechanisms, such as using
private sector technical partners as project implementing entities played a critical role in
the achievement of the project objectives, while others in particular the outsourcing of
project management added complexity to project implementation and further weakened
project M&E.

107.   There was no QAG review on quality of supervision.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

108.   Rating: The overall Bank performance is moderately satisfactory.

109. This rating is based on the following main positive factors: (i) good uses of the
sector analysis in project design; (ii) introduction of innovative approaches to address the
identified MSME development bottlenecks; and (iii) generally good supervision
responses to main obstacles of project implementation in particular the 2009 restructuring.
The main negative factors considered include: (i) project complexity, and (ii) lack of
effective uses of the results frameworks and proactive actions to improve the M&E
arrangements.

5.2 Borrower Performance


                                             28
(a) Government Performance

110.   Rating: The Government performance is moderately satisfactory.

111. Overall Government commitment: The GOK remained committed to the
objectives of the Project throughout the project design and implementation phases.
Although the end-2007/early-2008 political crisis affected project implementation, the
turmoil did not last long. Overall, the political and social environment was stable during
the project implementation period.

112. Main Government counterpart: The main counterpart was the Ministry of
Industrialization. The Ministry’s project management capacity was quite limited which
affected the timeliness and effectiveness of coordination, guidance, problem solving and
project M&E. The problem was partially addressed by increased support to MOI
capacity building after the 2009 restructuring, which was strongly endorsed by the MOI.

113.   (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: The implementing agency performance is moderate satisfactory.

114. Project manager: The Project outsourced the management of procurement and
financial management processes, as well as project M&E to the PMC. The PMC’s
performance is considered as moderately unsatisfactory (e.g. for project M&E), which
has been factored into the rating for the agencies performance.

115. Implementing entities: The Project adopted an innovative approach towards
implementation arrangement. It engaged five Technical Implementing Partners (TIPs) to
implement the main activities, making them autonomous in designing and implementing
the activities. For the purpose of this ICR, those TIPs are considered as implementing
agencies, together with the two government task forces for the training levy scheme
reform and the original Component Three.

116. The performance of the TIPs for C1B, C2A and C2C were satisfactory. The TIP
for the Risk Capital and TA Fund (C1B) was engaged two years after the project
approval in December 2006. By the end of the Project, the TIP had successfully
introduced a new risk capital financing model in Kenya. The TIP for the value-chain
based matching grant (C2A) was tasked with multi-facet responsibilities. In addition to
designing and managing the matching grant, the TIP successfully carried out the many
tasks covering four value chains (Coffee, Cotton to Garments, Pyrethrum and Leather) in
all the regions of the country. The TIP for the case-study-based business education
(C2C) completed the planned activity in time and took the initiative to launch another
round of case study development after the first round was successfully concluded. The
second round included a train-the-trainers program which broadened the outreach. The
TIP for the business plan competition (C2C) managed to conduct two rounds of
competition despite the fact that project implementation under this subcomponent started
in the last two years of project implementation.


                                            29
117. The performance of the TIP for C1A was also satisfactory, given the broad
achievement of the FSD Kenya program, although the relevant intermediate result was
only partially achieved. The performance of the task force for the training levy scheme
was moderately satisfactory due to the long delays in project implementation and the less
than fully satisfactory result. The performance of the task force for the dropped original
Component Three is not rated.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

118.    Rating: The overall Borrower performance is moderately satisfactory.

119. This rating takes into consideration: (i) the continuous Government commitment
to the objectives of the Project; (ii) the efforts made by the main project
owner/counterpart in managing the complex project despite the capacity limitations; and
(iii) the satisfactory performance of the TIPs. Factors affecting a would-be higher rating
include: prolonged weak institutional capacity in project management, delays in timely
budgeting for, and requesting for MOF funding of, project activities, and the moderately
unsatisfactory performance of the PMC.

6. Lessons Learned

120. Several important lessons are learnt from this experimental joint Bank/IFC
operation.

   i.   Innovations can succeed under Bank financed projects, if the environment for
        innovations is favorable (like in Kenya), and the implementing entities know the
        local market well and are highly motivated (the TIPs under the project were either
        locally incorporated international firms, or local consultants teamed up with
        international developmental partners).
 ii.    Details are important in project design and supervision. Unlike general policy
        dialogues or the analytical work, investment project design and supervision
        require attention be paid to implementation details, such as the differences
        between the procurement and payments procedures of the main players (e.g.,
        between the GOK and the FSD Kenya); the contracting terms (e.g. for the PMC);
        or the capacity and financing requirements for a complex project M&E. Should
        this type of detail in project implementation have been factored into the design of
        the Project or addressed in a timely manner during project supervision, the Project
        could have achieved more in supporting the MSME development in Kenya.
 iii.   Better approach is needed for joint IDA-IFC operations. Joint IDA-IFC
        operations can bring together the strengths of the two institutions in particular for
        interventions at the firm level. On the other hand, IFC’s instruments are more
        costumed to project management by private sector entities, while the overall
        responsibility of IDA-financed projects is always vested in the government. For
        operations which finance IFC-type interventions, an approach needs to be
        developed to address, among others, the challenges in transferring IDA funding



                                             30
       through the government and the project owner to the private sector implementing
       agencies.
 iv.   M&E design should factor in the cost and capacity requirement. Should the
       implications of the Results Framework for the socio-economic analysis capacity
       of the project entities have been factored into the project design, adequate
       financing and capacity building could have been provided to enhance the
       utilization of the Results Framework; or alternatively, a more cost effective
       approach adopted.
 v.    Standard economic analysis methodology may not be universally applicable
       pending the nature of the main interventions of a project. For policy reform and
       capacity building technical assistance projects, quantification of project benefits
       in terms of NPVs, ERRs or IRRS will not be very helpful to gauge project
       efficiency. More effort should be made to qualitative analysis of project benefits.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

121. The MOI as the project owner and the main government counterpart provided a
review of the Project through the responses to an ICR questionnaire. The feedback is
broadly in line with the findings of this ICR. The Government was satisfied with the
results of the Project and was confident that the results would be sustained given the
favorable policy environment and the institutional development achieved under the
Project. Main weaknesses identified include a) the project complexity (the Project was
like a multi-project program); b) the weak principal-agent relation with the private sector
project management contractor (the PMC acted for a while as if it was that firm’s
project); c) the challenges in reconciling government procedures with those of the Project
(it was difficult to make timely payments to the FSD Kenya through the Government’s
transaction-based procedure); and d) the lack of capacity building support to the project
owner.

122. The ICR team agrees to those government views. The draft ICR has incorporated
the feedback of the Ministry of Industrialization (the main counterpart), and the final
draft has been shared with the MOI. No further comments are received. For the details
of the Government’s feedback, please refer to Annex 6 of the ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

123.   The was no co-financing of the Project.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

124. The IFC’s comments have been incorporated in the ICR, which are related to the
results of the SME Risk Capital Fund and TA Facility, and the lessons learnt from their
engagement in the provision of technical assistance to the other fund managers. In
general, the IFC as an investor was satisfied with the investment results of the SME Risk
Capital Fund. It was recognized that the TIP’s initiative to make the technical assistant


                                            31
funding an interest-free loan rather than a grant might be a factor to the effective uses of
the support in developing the investees’ capacity, e.g. in finance and accounting and
human resource management.

125. The main design weakness identified by the IFC was related to the technical
assistance to other fund managers. The design did not factor in the need to first establish
and fund those funds (other than the Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund) before technical
assistance could be provided to managers of those funds. Another omission identified
was the time needed for the other fund managers to adopt the model of combining risk
capital investment with technical support in capacity building. According to the IFC,
towards the end of the Project, the market became much more interested in the model
although there was little time left to utilize the IDA financing allocated to the relevant
activity.




                                             32
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

                 (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                        Appraisal   Restructuring Actual/Latest               Percentage of
                                                                Percentage of
    Components        Estimate (USD Estimate (USD Estimate (USD                   2009
                                                                 Appraisal
                         millions)     million)      million)                 Restructuring
Component 1 –
                         10.50          9.50          2.57          24.5         27.15
Access to Finance
C1A – financial
                          4.00          4.00          2.02          50.5          50.5
Sector Deepening
C1B (i) – SME
Risk Capital Fund         2.50          1.50          0.41          16.4          27.3
and TA Fund
C1B (ii) – Other
Fund Managers TA          4.00          4.00          0.14           3.5           3.5
fund
Component 2 –
Strengthening
Enterprise Skills         6.50          8.10          9.20         141.5         113.6
and Market
Linkages
C2A – Pilot Value
Chain Based
                          4.00          5.00          5.78         144.5         115.6
Matching Grant
Program
C2B –
Restructuring
                          0.50          0.50          0.61         122.0         122.0
Industrial Training
Levy Scheme
C2C (i) – Business
                          1.40          1.60          1.57         112.1          98.1
Plan Competition
C2C (ii) - GBSN           0.60          1.00          1.24         206.7         124.0
Component 3
(Original) –
Improving the             2.00          0.45          0.50           25          111.1
Business
Environment
Component 3
(2010 – 2012) –
Institutional
                         2.50*          3.45          3.39         135.6          98.3
Capacity Building
and Project
Management
C3 - Institutional
                          1.00          n.a.          1.22         122.0          n.a.
Capacity Building


                                               33
                       Appraisal   Restructuring Actual/Latest               Percentage of
                                                               Percentage of
    Components       Estimate (USD Estimate (USD Estimate (USD                   2009
                                                                Appraisal
                        millions)     million)      million)                 Restructuring
and M&E
C3 - Private PMC        1.50          n.a.        2.16            143.0          n.a.
Component 4         (Merged with (Merged with (Merged with
                       new C3)      new C3)      new C3)
                                                                   n.a.          n.a.
(Original) -
C4A – Institutional
                     (Merged with (Merged with (Merged with
Capacity Building      new C3)      new C3)      new C3)
                                                                   n.a.          n.a.
and M&E
C4B – Private        (Merged with (Merged with (Merged with
                       new C3)      new C3)      new C3)
                                                                   n.a.          n.a.
PMC

Total Baseline
                         21.50           21.50        15.66        72.8          72.8
Cost
Unallocated               0.50           0.50         0.33         66.0          66.0
Physical
                          0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Contingencies
Price
                          0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Contingencies
Total Project
                         22.00           22.00        15.99        72.7          72.7
Costs
Front-end fee PPF         0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Front-end fee
                          0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
IBRD
Total IDA
Financing                22.00           22.00        15.99        72.7          72.7
Required
Original financing
                                                      6.01         27.3          n.a.
cancelled

                                         (b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of      Estimate   Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                        Cofinancing     (USD       (USD       Appraisal
                                                       millions)  million)
              Borrower                      n.a.          0.5       0.87       174.0
     International Development
                                           n.a.        22.00       15.99          72.7
          Association (IDA)
Note:
Total disbursement at project closure                              16.88
Balance of Special Account before
                                                                   (0.89)
project account closure




                                                 34
                                Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Output Summary:

Most of the outputs planned at appraisal or the 2009 project restructuring were delivered.
Below is a summary of the main outputs by component:

                            Anx2-Table 1: Main outputs delivered:
          Component                            Main Output                  Implementing
                                                                                Entity
  C1A – Financial Sector           •   18 FSD Kenya projects in bank      FSD Kenya
  Deepening                            portfolio strengthening and new
                                       banking products development
  C1B (i) – SME Risk Capital       •   98 new instrument investments to   BPI Kenya
  Fund and TA Fund                     support SME startup and first
                                       time expansion
                                   •   175 TA loans
  C1B (ii) – Other Fund            •   4 technical assistance loans to    IFC
  Managers TA fund                     two fund managers

  C2A – Pilot Value Chain          •   4 sector strategies                Deloitte Consultancy,
  Based Matching Grant             •   45 pilot projects                  Kenya
  Program                          •   Regular stakeholder forum
                                       consultations
                                   •   Numerous training activities
  C2B – Restructuring              •   A report on the restructuring      Government task
  Industrial Training Levy             strategy and implementation plan   force (Directorate of
  Scheme                                                                  Industrial Training,
                                                                          MOI and Ministry of
                                                                          Education)
  C2C (i) – Business Plan          •   Over 5,500 applicants              Kenya Institute of
  Competition                      •   2 rounds of completion             Management
  C2C (ii) - GBSN                  •   137 local business case studies    GBSN Kenya Center
                                       developed
                                   •   Case-study-based instruction
                                       routinely used in executive
                                       training programs of the
                                       participating universities
Sources: PMC and TIPs reports

In addition, under the C2B – Training Levy Regime Reforms, a consultant report with
recommendations on the needed reforms was delivered with delays. The original
Component Three produced a consultant report before it was cancelled.

The main activity of Component Three after the 2009 restructuring was the financing of
the PMC contract. The PMC, on behalf of the MOI, managed: (i) the main consultant
selection processes; (ii) the financial management including the disbursement processes;
and (iii) the M&E. The required outputs in those areas were delivered, such as: (i) the


                                                35
completion of the procurement processes; (ii) the extension of payments to TIPs; (iii) and
the M&E reports. Other outputs of the component included the operational audits and the
baseline and impact assessment reports, as well as the project communication materials
after the 2009 restructuring strengthened project communication. The capacity building
activities for the MOI did not have detailed implementation plan until the last phase of
the Project, and were not carried out due to the lack of implementation time.

Results Highlight:

Financial Sector Deepening Trust (C1A): The subcomponent co-financed 18 FSD Kenya
projects. FSD Kenya reported that seven such projects had met their goals. Among those
successful FSD Kenya interventions, an index-based weather insurance project enabled
3,279 farmers to buy insurance product covering in total KShs160 million assets; and a
warehouse receipts system was established. The TA in portfolio management for Equity
Bank helped to turn a building society into a top-five bank in Kenya. Based on the
available information on 15 co-financed projects, the target of this subcomponent (at least
70 percent of financial institution beneficiaries meet or exceed business targets) was
partially met (46 percent). On the other hand, the FSD Kenya in general achieved good
results, as validated by the 2010 program impact assessment (see Table 2 below for
details). Two out of the five regulated MFIs received substantial support from the FSD
Kenya program regarding the new MFI regulations (approved during the project
implementation period). Most SACCOS became licensed. As a partner to the multi-
donor program, the Bank contributed to that achievement through policy guidance and
strategy development, thanks to the financing vehicle provided by the Project.

                 Anx2 – Table 2: FSD Kenya performance up to 2010:
                 FSD Kenya Target                     Indicator        Status
  Increase in the proportion of adult population    29%         Target reached
  using services of formal institutions
  Increase in the number of accounts in the         5.7 million Target reached
  financial sector
  Reduction in the number of financially            30%         Target reached
  excluded adult population
  Increase in the credit to the private sector as a 30%         Target reached
  percent of GDP
  Reduction in the interest rate spread             < 6%        Target not reached
Source: FSD Kenya Strategy Brief 2011-2015

Risk capital and TA fund (C1B): The subcomponent met the objective to introduce new
instruments for risk capital investments to alleviate SME’s funding difficulties (see the
Table below for details). US$17 million were provided in gross loans and quasi-equity
investments to MSMEs investees in less than five years. The investment portfolio’s loss
was low (7.5 percent). The TA facility provided non-interest loans to help the investees
to enhance bookkeeping, HR management and marketing for example. The relatively
low cost and long term funding coupled with capacity building TA enabled close to 100
entrepreneurs to start up or expand business. The targets of the subcomponent (at least



                                             36
US$11.5 million in investments at a loan loss rate of less than 10 percent) were largely
met.

          Anx2 – Table 3: New Instrument of Kenya BPI SME Risk Capital Fund:
     Local market conditions:                               Risk capital fund actual:
     Sizeable risk capital not available to SMEs            Average US$200,000
     Short term loans unable to meet SMEs’ capital          60 months term for 90% of the investees
     investment needs
     High collateral to loan rate (close to 100%) not       Average 63%
     affordable to SMEs
     Prime loan rate not available to SMEs (19% -           19%
     23%)
Source: BPI Kenya, August 2012

The TA fund for other fund managers (an activity of the C1B subcomponent) did not take
off until 2009 – 2010. 34 However, it appears the success of the risk capital fund under
the Project was catalytic in creating a risk capital financing market in Kenya, as more
investors entered the market towards the last phase of project implementation and four
TA supports were provided to two other fund managers under the subcomponent.

Value-chain based matching grant (C2A): This subcomponent provided badly needed
business development services to farmers and primary processing workshops (e.g. millers,
ginneries, weavers, and hike and skin handlers) at a cost sharing basis (1:1) through 45
pilot projects in more than six years of project implementation. Those pilots were guided
by four value chain strategies. Subcontracting was used under the cotton-to-garment
value chain, where subcontracting increased by more than 10 times. 35 Implementation
under the pyrethrum value chain was delayed due to delayed liberalization of the sector.
Implementation under the leather sector started in 2011 – 2012 and it is too soon to report
verifiable results. The subcomponent’s targets (3 value chain strategies and 50percent
increase in subcontracting) were exceeded (4 value chain strategies and over 10 times
increases in subcontracting).

In addition to those results explicitly stated in the project Results Framework, the
subcomponent achieved a number of value chain strategic targets in particular under the
coffee and cotton-to-garment value chains, for example:

      •    Coffee value chain - Payment lag to farmers was reduced from 9-12 months to 14
           days by most of the beneficiary millers. Share of top grade coffee of total
           produce increased by 90 percent after project interventions.
      •    Cotton value chain - A cotton-pricing model improved transparency in
           determining minimum price.


34
   This activity was implemented by the IFC and the delays were due to the time taken to foster other fund
managers and raise investments for new SME funds.
35
   Data were available on three ginneries and two of them substantially increased subcontracting with
cotton farmers.


                                                    37
Training levy scheme restructuring (C2B): This subcomponent produced a study on the
reforms of the levy scheme although there were delays due to some consultant
contracting issues. While the consultant deliverable was delayed, the Government
amended the relevant law. Given the fact that the consultant report was accepted by the
government task force, the target of this subcomponent (agreement on training levy
scheme, legislation and implementation plan) was considered as largely met.

Case-study based business education (C2C): Under this subcomponent 164 case studies
were developed which covered a variety of subject matters, e.g. marketing solutions, HR
management, business startup and organizational strategies. The cases were considered
as a valuable pool of local knowledge and experience for MSME development. Of the
three participating universities, two reported good retention rate of the staff trained and
all three were providing case-study based courses at their executive training programs.
After the 2009 project restructuring, the local partner of the GBSN initiated a second
round of case study development, which introduced a train-the- trainer aspect that
broadened the scope of the original sub-component and increased its outreach and
sustainability. This local-driven second round was a good step towards more effective
business education. The subcomponent was the first main activity of the Project to be
initiated (in 2004), and met or exceeded the original targets (case-based instruction is
routinely used and 100 new business case studies introduced).

Business plan competition (C2C): This subcomponent delivered two rounds of
competitions with a total participation of over 5,500 entrepreneurs. The first round of the
competition produced 24 winners with the help of international experts. Follow-up
interviews of the 24 entrepreneurs found that none experienced rejection by the banks
and 75 percent of the new ideas were being implemented. Building on the success of the
first round, a local-driven second round resulted in more winning business plans of
similar quality. Although the implementation of this subcomponent started only in 2008
(almost four years later than planned), the results exceeded the original targets (at least
200 eligible entrepreneurs participate in competition).




                                            38
                       Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Quantitative analysis: At appraisal, an economic analysis was conducted on a 12-year
forecast timeframe. The analysis assumed that: (i) impact would start to be felt during
the project implementation; but (ii) the maximum impact would be reached after project
completion. The estimated NPV of the overall project in five years was minus US$6.2
million and US$19.8 million in 12 years. The estimated IRR in the same periods was 7.2
percent and 26.7 percent, respectively.

The economic analysis at appraisal, however, acknowledged the limitations of the
exercise: “lack of reliable time series data required for an appropriate calibration,
difficulty in finding the appropriate shadow prices, and difficulty in precisely quantifying
the economic benefits and welfare gains or losses especially resulting from capacity
building and institutional development.? As discussed in Section 3.3 of this ICR, the
economic analysis at appraisal was not necessarily robust due to the challenges in data
availability and reliability already identified at the time. In particular, the comparable
country used for the calculation of the job creation target was not appropriate, given the
differences in the size and sector distribution of MSMEs between Kenya (the project
location) and South Africa (the benchmark country); as well as the difference in the life
of the risk capital model of the two countries (over 15 years in South Africa and less than
1 year in Kenya).

At project closure, the Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund provided the NPV and the IRR of
the Fund’s investments, which are reproduced in the following table.

               Anx3 – Table 1: Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund efficiency:
 Total investor drawdowns (KSh):                  (740,662,577)
 Total repayments (KSh):                          836,470,120
 NET repayment (KSh):                             95,807,543

 NPV 8yrs at 14 percent (KSh):                    33,586,202
 NPV 8yrs at 14 percent (US$):                    394,528
 IRR (percentage):                                24 – 27
Source: Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund/BPI International

In addition, for the sake of the ICR, a quantitative analysis exercise has been conducted
to estimate the end-project NPV and IRR of the value-chain based matching grant. As at
appraisal, the results of the interventions under the coffee value chain are used as a proxy
for the interventions under all the four value chains. The results are as follows:

                   Anx3 – Table 2: Value-chain Based MG Efficiency:
  Years                                           Incremental cash flows (US$)
  2007                                            (2,194,447)
  2008                                            2,152,114
  2009                                            2,152,114
  2010                                            3,304,302
  2011                                            3,304,302



                                                39
  Economic Analysis
  NPV (US$, 14 percent):                             5,536,076
  IRR (percentage)                                   102
   Source: Deloitte Kenya and staff own estimates

The parameters used for the calculation of the NPV and the IRR of the matching grant
interventions are as follows:

   •   Total incremental sales of 10 coffee farmers’ cooperative societies
       (US$11,521,884)
   •   Total matching grants to the 10 cooperatives (US$1,021,092)
   •   Total matching funding provided by the 10 cooperatives at a 1:1 ratio
       (US$1,021,092)
   •   Number of the incremental full-time-equivalent labor used by the 10 cooperatives
       (483)
   •   Monthly unskilled worker wage in the rural sector, KOG regulation as of May
       2012 (KSh 4,258 or US$51 at an exchange rate of 1USD=84KSh)
   •   Matching grant administrative cost for the coffee value chain (US$467,316)

No quantitative analysis is conducted for the other main interventions out of a concern for
the robustness of a would-be NPV/IRR analysis, and hence the meaningfulness of the
exercise without reliable and clearly attributable data. As a matter of fact, the good
monetary value achieved through the matching grant interventions under the coffee value
chain should also be attributed to rapidly increasing coffee price in the international
market during the intervention years.

Qualitative analysis: A qualitative analysis has been conducted at ICR, which compares
the market conditions before the Project and the benefits brought by the main
interventions. The actual utilization of IDA financing is then compared with appraisal
estimates to provide a snapshot of the project efficiency. Details of the qualitative
analysis are presented in the following table:

           Anx3 – Table 3: Project efficiency: A before and after analysis:
  Component               Before                     After              Actual          Actual
                          Project                   Project            Financing      Financing
                                                                      (percent of    (percent of
                                                                       appraisal         2009
                                                                       estimate)    Restructuring
                                                                                    Reallocation)
  Component         •   Existing FIs       •   An independent        50.5           50.5
  One –                 unable to              and well-funded
  Improving             provide                trust (FSD
  access to             financial              Kenya)
  finance:              products               supported
                        tailored to            initiatives for the
                        MSME needs             development of
                                               the financial



                                                    40
Component         Before                After               Actual           Actual
                  Project              Project             Financing        Financing
                                                          (percent of      (percent of
                                                           appraisal          2009
                                                           estimate)      Restructuring
                                                                          Reallocation)
                                     service market
                                     and improved
                                     the overall
                                     access to finance
                                     indicators of
                                     Kenya
                                 •   A building
                                     society financier
                                     was turned into a
                                     top-five bank
                                     providing SME
                                     financing
                                     (Equity Bank)
                                 •   New financing
                                     products such as
                                     weather-index-
                                     based insurance
                                     and warehouse
                                     receipts finance
                                     were introduced.
             •   Risk capital    •   A new risk          16.4 (TA         27
                 financing was       capital financing   financing
                 not available       model was           only, as the
                 to most of          successfully        investment
                 SMEs                introduced.         fund was
                                 •   The investment      financed by
                                     plus TA support     IFC and 4-5
                                     model is being      private sector
                                     copied by other     investors)
                                     fund managers.
Component    •   Mutual          •   At least 2 value    144.5            115.6
Two –            support             chains (coffee
Enterprise       systems and         and cotton-to-
skills and       value chain         garment) were
market           linkages were       revitalized with
linkages         extremely           good results for
                 weak                farmers and
                                     primary
                                     processors at the
                                     low end of the
                                     value chains.
             •   MSMEs had       •   Follow-up           112.1            98
                 difficulty          interviews of the
                 obtaining           24 winners of


                                      41
  Component             Before                 After              Actual         Actual
                        Project               Project            Financing      Financing
                                                                (percent of    (percent of
                                                                 appraisal        2009
                                                                 estimate)    Restructuring
                                                                              Reallocation)
                       loans as their       the first round of
                       business plans       the BPC found
                       were often           that none
                       deemed               experienced
                       below-               rejection by the
                       standards by         banks and 75
                       banks                percent of the
                                            new ideas were
                                            being
                                            implemented.
                                        •   Because the
                                            event is very
                                            popular, the
                                            MOI has decided
                                            to sponsor it on a
                                            regular basis.
                   •   Technical,     •     Training were      206.7          124
                       vocational and       provided
                       educational          through case-
                       training in          study-based
                       Kenya was not        methodology,
                       geared with          TA and BDS, as
                       MSMEs’               well as business
                       practical            plan
                       needs                competitions in
                                            bookkeeping,
                                            managing HR,
                                            marketing,
                                            product and
                                            design
                                            improvement,
                                            etc.

The underutilization of the IDA financing of the technical assistance for other fund
managers (under C1B) is an opportunity lost when evaluated against the original targets.
A sizeable portion of the credit proceeds (US$4 million) was allocated to the TA for
“other fund managers?. However, only about four percent of the allocation was
eventually utilized. It appears that the cost estimate of this activity at appraisal did not
take into consideration the fact that there were no existing risk capital fund managers
other than the Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund in Kenya in 2004 – 2005. It took the IFC a
while to mobilize funding for other risk capital investment funds, and convince them of
the benefits of the investment plus TA model. Another US$ 4 million was allocated to
finance FSD Kenya projects, but only half of the proceeds were utilized. Based on the



                                             42
feedback of the MOI and the TIP for the subcomponent at project closure, the main factor
in the underutilization was the difficulty to reconcile the government payments
procedures with the non-profit institution’s bookkeeping practice. 36

The underutilization of the IDA financing for the risk capital subcomponent’s TA fund
on the other hand, can be considered as an efficiency gain. The fund manager
volunteered not to use the IDA funding to finance the operational expenses as they were
self-sustainable. At appraisal, there was no requirement to make the TA to the risk
capital fund investees as a loan. However, the fund manager (the TIP) adopted the
approach to extend interest-free TA loans to their investees. This could be a main reason
for the effective uses of the TA funding (e.g. for the restructuring of an investment when
it became delinquent). The repaid proceeds were than extended as new rounds of TA
loans. Before the project closure, the Kenya SME Risk Capital Fund received
US$391,719 from the Project as the TA funding, but had extended TA loans worth of
US$410,000. 37

Conclusion: Based on the above quantitative and qualitative analysis, the project
efficiency appears to be substantial.




36
   The Government’s payments procedures were transaction based, while the FSD Kenya did not separate
financing sources. A “performance-based? solution was adopted in 2006 – 2007, which used the FSD
Kenya’s business plan as the basis for IDA financing. The MOI reported that the business plans were too
generic for them to identify the FSD Kenya projects eligible for IDA financing under the Project.
37
   A final disbursement of US$179,222 brought the total utilization of the IDA financing for the TA
Facility to 38 percent of the allocation.


                                                  43
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


                                   (a) Task Team members
                                                                               Responsibility/
            Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending

Frank Ajilbola Ajilore       Resident Representative               CAFW7
Abayomi A. Alawode           Practice Manager                      FFSDR
Fatiha Amar                  Program Assistant                     MNSSD
Simon Andrews                Regional Manager                      CEAR3
                             Senior Private Sector Develop.
Vyjayanti Tharmaratnam Desai                                        CICIS    Task Team Leader
                             Specialist
Pascale Helene Dubois        Evaluation and Suspension Officer       OES
Rogati Anael Kayani          Consultant                             AFTPE
Andrei Mikhnev               Senior Private Sector Developm         CICBR
Ndiritu Muriithi             Operations Officer                    CAFAF
                                                                   CGFTG -
Ismail Samji                  Senior Investment Officer
                                                                     HIS
William F. Steel              Consultant                           ENVGC
Dileep M. Wagle               Consultant                            AFTFP
Dahir Elmi Warsame            Senior Procurement Specialist         AFTPE
Supervision/ICR
Yira J. Mascaro               Lead Financial Sector Specialist     AFTFE Task Team Leader
 Henry Amena Amuguni          Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTME
 Matilde Bordon               Senior Investment Policy Officer     CICIN
 Maria Elizabeth Carneiro     Finance Assistant                    CTRLA
 Irene F. Chacon              Operations Analyst                   AFTFW
 Yeshareg Dagne               Program Assistant                    AFTFE
 Gisela Durand                Consultant                           LCSPS
 Eme Essien                   Manager                              CAFAF
 Sachin Gathani               Consultant                           AFTFE
 John Michael Graglimpact
                              Projects Officer                     CAFAF
assessment
 Caroline Kidiavayi           Program Assistant                     AFCE2
                                                                   EASRE -
Yasuo Konishi                 Consultant
                                                                     HIS
                                                                   CDIMPA
                                                                      CT
Chaoying Liu                  Results Measurement Specialist
                                                                   ASSESS
                                                                   MENTS
                                                                   AFTPS-
Nora McGuire-Wien             Consultant
                                                                     HIS
Andrei Mikhnev                Senior Private Sector Developm        CICBR
Joel Buku Munyori             Procurement Specialist                AFTPE
Connie Musabi Muteshi         Consultant                            CAFIC
Josphine Kabura Ngigi         Financial Management Specialist      AFTME


                                                 44
Steven M. Mukaindo       Legal Counsel                        LGAM
Christian Johannes
                         Financial Analyst                    CTRLA
Nieuwoudt
Kevin Njiraini           Principal Investment Officer         CF2S6
Ganesh Rasagam           Lead Private Sector Development      AFTFE
Luba Shara               Senior Monitoring & Evaluation       CAFAF
Dimitri Stoelinga        Consultant                           CICBR
Dileep M. Wagle          Consultant                           AFTFP
Dahir Elmi Warsame       Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPE
Moses Sabuni Wasike      Sr Financial Management Specialist   OPSOR
Xiaofeng Hua             Senior Financial Sector Specialist   AFTFE ICR author


                              (b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                        44.02                     205.22
  FY05                                         4.00                      26.87
  FY06                                         0                          0.00
  FY07                                         0                          0.00
  FY08                                         0                          0.00
                         Total:               48.02                     232.09
Supervision/ICR
 FY04                                          0                          0.00
 FY05                                         44.27                     128.89
 FY06                                         42.62                     127.63
 FY07                                         37.59                     120.81
 FY08                                         30.50                     139.98
 FY09                                         35.85                     170.25
 FY10                                         16.14                     129.00
 FY11                                         15.09                      90.65
 FY12                                         23.00                     133.38
 FY13                                          7.86                      40.82
                         Total:              252.92                    1081.41




                                         45
                         Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The Project design included an Impact Assessment and several Operational Audits.
Below are the excerpts from the Executive Summary of the final Impact Assessment
Report:

Quote:

“For the FSD project sub-component there is positive growth in employment between
2008 and 2011 from 5,45 to 7,6 FTEs per MSME, i.e. a 39percent increase. Based on the
number of MSMEs that were researched this implies that 170 jobs were created. Since
only a fraction of the MSMEs supported by Equity were included in this study the actual
number of jobs created is likely to be substantial higher. Furthermore, there is an increase
in both revenue and profitability of the MSMEs that received loans from Equity Bank.
Average turnover increases from KSh. 8 million in the year before the loan KSh. 15
million in 2011. Average profit per MSME increases from KSh 1.2 million in the year
before the loan to KSh 3.7 million in 2011. These figures translate to a 7percent increase
in value added per worker, going from KSh374.000 per FTE in 2008 to KSh400.000 per
FTE in 2011.

1.2 Risk Capital Fund
For the risk capital sub-component we a find positive growth in employment, from an
average of 40 FTEs per MSME in 2009 to 50 FTEs per MSMEs in 2011, a 25percent
increase. Based on the number of MSMEs that were researched this implies that 290 jobs
were created. Furthermore, profitability amongst MSMEs that received loans and/or
equity through BPI also increased. Between 2009 and 2011 profits went up with
79percent, from circa KSh 4,7 million to KSh 8,4 million per MSME. Furthermore,
revenue went up from KSh 45 million to KSh 60 million per MSME, a 33percent
increase. The value added per worker from went from KSh 300,000 to KSh 477,000, a
60percent increase.

1.3 Value Chain Matching Grant
For the coffee farmers targeted by the value chain matching grant sub-component (i.e. the
treatment group), crop yield increased by 210percent between 2007 and 2011, which is a
larger increase than for the farmers not targeted (i.e. the control group). Furthermore,
crop revenue went up from KSh 6500 in 2007 to KSh 42.500 in 2011, again a larger
increase for the control group. Expenditures on agricultural inputs went with 35percent
for the treatment group versus a decrease for the control group. Finally, the number of
seasonal employees and the annual number of days of labor per seasonal employee went
up with 35percent and 60percent respectively for the control group, versus a reduction for
both these indicators for the treatment group.

For the cotton sector, crop yields and crop revenue in the treatment group increase with
40percent and 110percent respectively which is a smaller increase than for the control
group. Expenses on inputs go down with 70percent for the treatment group, which is
larger reduction than for the control group. Finally the number of seasonal employees and



                                            46
the number of days worked per seasonal employee go up substantially for both treatment
and control group, and the increase is larger for the treatment group.

For the joint sample of coffee and cotton farmers, seasonal employment went up by 0,8
FTEs per farm. For the 1190 farmers were researched this comes down to the creation of
at least 965 FTEs of seasonal labor. Triodos Facet MSME Competitiveness Project
Impact Evaluation 2

Furthermore, the value added per farm increases with 195percent for the control group,
from KSh 4.100 to KSh 12.100, and with 320percent for the treatment group, from KSh
6.200 to KSh 26.100.?

“Based on the findings detailed above, two key conclusions emerge from this impact
study:

1. The MSME Project has been successful in improving the performance of the MSMEs
that received support from the TIPs included in the research:
a. The project has been especially successful in boosting MSME revenue and profit. The
impact on value added per worker is also positive: the different sub-components have
resulted in increases ranging from 5percent to 60percent.
b. The project impact on employment creation is positive. A lower estimate of the jobs
created by the three researched sub-components in around 1500.

2. Although similar services were provided to the beneficiaries of the various sub-
components, some beneficiaries applied these services more efficiently to their enterprise
than others and hence realized stronger growth of their performance.

As can be seen the project has had positive impact on the beneficiaries. In addition, the
research allows for a number of policy recommendations to be made:
1. For the non-agricultural sector, focus future financial access interventions on MSME
that are more recently established, active in the service sector and/or based in Nairobi.
2. Continue supporting the coffee and cotton sector, and perhaps other agricultural sectors,
with a focus on farmers with an entrepreneurial attitude because these tend to make better
use of the services.?

Unquote




                                            47
        Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower has not prepared a standalone post evaluation of the Project. The Ministry
of Industrialization (MOI), as the government owner of the Project, has provided
responses to an ICR questionnaire used by the ICR author to collect feedback from the
project entities. 38 The ICR has taken into consideration the feedback, and is shared with
the MOI. No further comments have been received. The following are the summary of
MOI’s feedback to the questionnaire.

Question No. 1 - Project Relevance

  √ Yes, I agree (that the Project adequately addressed the main challenges faced by
Kenya’s MSMEs).
   • Access to finance: There has considerable systemic change and development of
      products targeting the MSME sector. This has been as a result of the success
      demonstrated by Equity Bank that received technical assistance from the
      Financial Sector Deepening sub-component of the Project. Similarly, there has
      been increased access to formal financial institutions, including agency banking
      and mobile banking resulting into an increased percentage of Kenyans having
      access to formal financial services. The banking Industry has grown and 43
      commercial banks, 1 mortgage finance company, 6 deposit taking microfinance
      institutions, 2 credit reference bureaus, 3 representative offices of foreign banks
      and 124 foreign exchange bureaus.
   • Stronger market linkages: Value chain approach has now been adopted in the
      development of sectors including the concept of undertaking value chain studies.
      Based on the experiences of the MSME Project’s value chain approach in the
      cotton, coffee, leather, and pyrethrum value chains, 20 value chain studies have
      been undertaken out of which 6 have been prioritized for cluster development and
      implementation. These include the ICT, Fish, Beef, Cut-flowers, Tourism, and
      Horticulture.

Question No. 2 - Project Complexity:

   √Yes, I agree (that the MSME project scope and structure was appropriate for
addressing the main sector issues) but the design of the Project scope had shortcomings.
   • Too many project sub-components: Each of the sub-components was equivalent
       to an individual project and having many implementing partners made it very
       complex. Further, some inherent implementation challenges, that included the



38
     MOI feedback to the KE MSME ICR Questionnaire, December 28, 2012


                                                48
       need for working together by competing private sector institutions affected
       smooth implementation.
   •   Ownership: Whereas the project was being coordinated by the MoI, the Ministry
       was not directly involved in administering the project funds. This at times made
       the TIPs feel more answerable to the Project Management Contractor than the
       Ministry thereby affecting effective M & E initiatives. Similarly, the respective
       project implementers were mainly indicating the activities as being undertaken by
       their respective institutions thereby denying the project, and by extension the
       Ministry, visibility.
   •   Project Management Contract: This concept was new in Government
       implemented projects and this concept was not fully owned by the Kenya
       Government. The norm is to create a Project Management Unit within the
       implementing Ministry and then employ experts from the private sector during the
       project implementation period.
   •   Project Awareness: The project activities were mainly demand driven. This
       meant that beneficiaries must approach the implementers for participation.
       However, with limited awareness of the project, it took time for beneficiaries to
       start benefitting leading to slow uptake of project funds. Similarly, due to project
       complexity, and a high turnover of MoI Project Secretariat staff and Project
       Steering Committee members, new project staff and PSC members spent a lot of
       time understanding the project thereby affecting the oversight role and project
       implementation guidance.

Question No. 3 – Components Design

  √Yes, I agree (that the design of the three components clearly defined main activities
which were closely related to the project objectives) but the components (or individual
component/subcomponent) design had shortcomings.
   • Access to Finance: The SME Risk Capital Fund operations are a relatively new
      concept in Kenya. The concept was therefore a good idea but during design,
      proper analysis should have undertaken on how entrepreneurs who appreciate
      taking loans alongside the TA Fund. Similarly, some portion of the TA funding
      should have been provided as seed money to act as an incentive for attracting
      fund managers to issue alongside their mobilized funds for TA purposes;
   • Acceptability by Fund Managers: It took a lot of sensitization to encourage
      some Fund Managers to participate in the project. Direct benefits to the Fund
      Managers were limited and most of them did not want to be involved in collecting
      the TA loans. The perception affecting by Fund Managers was that it increased
      their responsibility beyond their direct control and also would also result into
      higher administration costs.




                                           49
   •   Improving Business Environment: The complexity of the project and the
       ‘bureaucratic design’ made the project almost irrelevant with regard to reform
       initiatives. In developing the project, reform areas by the respective Government
       agencies, such as tax reforms, licensing reforms, industrial training levy, were
       incorporated but were being implemented faster by the respective institutions
       without incorporation of findings by studies done within the project. This
       contributed significantly to the cancellation of component 3 – improving the
       Business Environment. Similarly, the restructuring of the Industrial Training Levy
       Scheme was almost overtaken by events as DIT developed the draft legal
       framework before the completion of the study.
   •   Consultancy Contracts: Some of the contracts for the Technical Implementing
       Partners were time based as opposed to lump-sum based. This made it difficult for
       better control and achievement of milestone (performance basis). This affected
       quality of implementation in some areas as the contractors were content with the
       long period contracts and were not challenged enough to excel in service delivery.

Question 4 - Institutional Arrangement

   √No, I do not agree (that the designed institutional arrangement was appropriate for
effective project implementation).
    • Project Steering Committee: This was to give the overall leadership role for the
        project. However, the members kept changing, including the Chairman (PS) and it
        took a long time for the new members to understand the project thereby affecting
        timely decision making. This also affected the momentum of the implementation
        of project activities and reporting structures
    • Project Management Contractor: The PMC was initially slow in providing
        detailed performance reports. They mainly focused on financial reporting and it
        therefore took a long time in developing appropriate performance indicators.
    • Project Management: The project being a GoK and World Bank was using both
        the procedures for the two institutions in procurement, financial regulation and
        project implementation. The PMC, being a private institution may not have been
        fully appraised on the government procedures and much time was taken in the
        learning process. Similarly, given that the PMC were running all the operations of
        the project, the awareness within the Ministry on the project activities and
        requisite procurement approvals and financial projection of project activities was
        limited.
    • Communication and outreach component: The original design did not have this
        component. This resulted into low awareness and appreciation of project activities
        leading to low demand from targeted beneficiaries.
    • Procurement issues: PWC, being a private institution had some difficulties in
        presenting their cases in the Ministerial Tender Committee, which is a GoK


                                           50
       requirement and this delayed procurement of some technical
       implementers/contractors.
   •   Financial procedures: GoK was not directly involved on the day to day financial
       operations of the project and hence were not fully in the picture on cash flow
       requirements. These caused delays, including making provision in the Ministry’s
       budget for voted funds in the succeeding financial years. Several consultants had
       payment delays, especially towards the project closure, as uptake was
       significantly increased and this was not envisaged by Government Officials
       involved in making budgetary provisions.

Question No. 5 - Results Framework

    √Yes, I agree (that the design of the Results Framework was realistic, appropriate and
attributable to the Project; and the methodologies for collecting and processing data were
sound) but the design of the Results Framework had shortcomings.
     • The PDO’s were generally broad and required “SMART’ Intermediate results
        indicators to monitor progress on a regular timely basis;
     • The activities of the 3 components, though mutually complimentary, were
        generally diverse with some relating directly to the beneficiaries whereas others
        were indirect interventions. For instance, calculating no. of employees under the
        pilot value chain matching grant was difficult whereas the interventions indicated
        increased productivity which normally results into increased employment.
     • The Project Appraisal Document should have put more emphasis on the quarterly
        performance reports alongside the financial monitoring reports. The envisaged
        baseline studies were not carried out earlier or before implementation of project
        activities. This posed some challenges during the Operational Audit and Impact
        Assessment activities of the project.

Question No. 6 - Risk Assessment

  √Yes, I agree (that a) the risk assessment at the time of project appraisal identified the
key risks relevant to the achievement of project objectives and project implementation;
and b) the proposed risk mitigation measures were effective and adequate) but the Risk
Assessment at the design phase had shortcomings.
      • Private-public partnership in infancy: Suspicion between the Public and
          Private sector players still exists with the latter doubting the performance and
          reliance of their counterparts and the former looking down upon the others as
          inferior. Similarly, though in a project setup, the private sector implementers
          gave the impression to the beneficiaries that it was their project. Most
          beneficiaries and small service providers became aware of the role of
          government when the unfortunate delay in payments scenario arose.




                                             51
      •   Ineffective Donor Coordination: The Private Sector Development Strategy
          (PSDS), developed in 2006, was created to assist in creating synergies and
          coordinated efforts on similar project implementation. However, its
          implementation was not effectively carried out and hence donors still conduct
          their interventions independently creating overlaps. The situation is made worse
          by the lack of suitable mechanisms to evaluate performance of the respective
          development partners, especially on interventions involving system
          change/behavioral changes and those conducted by many players.

Question No. 7 – GoK’s Performance

  √No, I do not agree (that the Government’s performance at the time of project
preparation and appraisal was satisfactory).
   • The design of the project is unique, including aspects of financial management.
       All the project implementation of the various sub-components was carried out by
       Private Sector Players. The project design also left out participation of
       Government institutions, such as the Development Financial Institutions under the
       Access to Finance Component.
   • The capacity building component for the Ministry staff was also controlled by the
       PMC making ownership, interest and understanding of the project implementation
       process averse to Ministry staff. Similarly, training activities under the project
       were initially not synchronized to the Ministry’s annual training requirements
       before this shortcoming was identified and addressed during the mid-term review
       process.
   • There was also lack of awareness of the project implementation amongst the
       Ministry staff thereby limiting the integration of the project activities to the
       Ministry’s co-activities.

Question No. 8 – The World Bank Performance

   Yes, I agree (that the World Bank’s performance at the time of project preparation
and appraisal was satisfactory).
   • The project was a pilot, one of the 7 being implemented in different countries.
       The World Bank was instrumental in creating linkages, for instance, the World
       Bank group has been working with the Financial Sector Deepening (FSD), on the
       development of the financial sector in Kenya. The project’s contribution to FSD,
       therefore created synergies and supported MSME development alongside the
       financial sector development. Through linkages created within the project
       activities, the FSD help establish the warehouse receipting and weather insurance
       as financial products to support the pilot value chain matching grant activities and
       other agricultural related initiatives.



                                            52
   •   The World Bank had been supporting various other reform initiatives. This
       including the judiciary and legislative reform initiatives were integrated to the
       improving business environment component of the MSME Project. This resulted
       into establishing technical task forces comprising of stakeholders relevant for the
       Improving Business Environment component and restructuring the Industrial
       Training Levy Scheme that help harmonize and integrate the reform activities
       with MSME development.
   •   Support to diagnostic studies by the World Bank, such as the Value Chain Studies,
       was very useful in identifying the areas of intervention by the project in the
       respective value chains. This concept has since become a necessity for the
       promotion and development of industrial clusters under the Vision 2030 flagship
       projects in the manufacturing sector.
   •   The World Bank support was very instrumental to the design of the Global
       Business Schools Network (GBSN) and Business Partners International (BPI)
       Sub-components. The technical implementing partners, GBSN and BPI were
       already collaborating with the International Finance Corporation prior to the
       implementation of the MSME Project and were two institutions critical in the
       implementation of the respective sub-components.
   •   However, the proposal for the PMC as one of the institutions involved in project
       implementation; and the project costing for the respective project components was
       not very well executed despite the involvement of the World Bank in the Project
       Appraisal Document.

Additional comments:

The project design was good, in an ideal situation, but did not factor in the prevalent
conditions at the time of project implementation that included:
    • Infancy in the Public Private Sector Partnership
    • Evaluation on ensuring ownership of the project by the various implementing
        players and beneficiaries
    • Bureaucratic nature of some private sector institutions that delayed efficient and
        effective execution of the project activities
    • Inadequate capacity of some of the various private sector institutions in
        implementing such programs. The project, though not conventional, assisted in
        capacity building of private sector project implementers to enhance their skills
        base for effective project implementation
    • High staff turnover at the various level of implementation, that includes Ministry
        staff, key PMC staff, restructuring of ITL consultancy consortium, change of
        World Bank TTLs amongst others
    • Long disbursement mechanisms that facilitate flow of project funds from the
        World Bank to the Project Account


                                           53
    •   Lack of liberalization in some sectors, such as the Pyrethrum sector, where until
        the project closure, pyrethrum processing is still controlled by a Government
        institution, the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya. The project interventions had been
        designed to assist the sector integrates and operates in a liberalized environment.
    •   Lack of willingness by financial institutions to divulge information about their
        operations
    •   Lack of capacity by beneficiaries to contribute under the Pilot Value Chain
        Matching Grant Fund. This was prevalent in the cotton sector where the
        beneficiaries, especially farmers, were generally poor. The mid-term review had
        proposed the reduction of ratio of the matching grant to beneficiary contribution
        from 50-50percent to 75percent:25percent. However, this was not implemented.
    •   Lack of effective mechanisms to support contract farming within the various
        agricultural value chains. It was observed that some farmers were not faithful to
        the agreement with processors who provided financial support for seed and
        fertilizer purchase in the understanding that the produce will all be sold to the
        processors.
    •   The cyclical nature of interventions at the production level of the value chain
        (coffee and cotton) and synchrony with disbursement of mobilization fees was
        not always harmonized and this caused long implementation delays.
    •   The lack of readily available business development service providers in some of
        the remote areas of intervention by the pilot value chain providers delayed
        implementation.


Question No. 9 – Project Relevance

   √ Yes, I agree (that the project has been in line with GoK’s strategy and priorities
throughout the project implementation period ).
    • All the three project components being implemented are addressing strategies
       identified in the following Government Policy documents on SME Development:
       (i) Sessional Paper No. 2 of 2005 on Development of Micro and Small
             Enterprises for Wealth and Employment Creation for Poverty Reduction
       (ii) National Industrialization Policy framework (2012-2030)
       (iii) Public Private Partnership Act
       (iv) Private Sector Development Strategy (2005 – 2012)
       (v) Strategy for the revitalization of the Agricultural Sector
    • The Kenya Vision 2030. The vision has identified several sectors to support the
       development of the country into middle country status. These include, under the
       economic pillar: Financial services, manufacturing, wholesale and retail etc.

Question No. 10 – Achievement of the Project Development Objectives




                                            54
  √Yes, I agree (that the project has achieved its PDOs).
  • Over 2,500 new jobs were created with several more indirect jobs created through
     the value chain matching grant; local case teaching; and the Business Plan
     competition.
  • Over US$ 17 million worth of loans disbursed with less than 7.5percent level of
     bad debts against PDO of US$ 11.5 million in loans and quasi-equity investment
     to SMEs disbursed with less than 10percent loan loss rate.
  • Comprehensive value chain strategies for the cotton, coffee, leather and
     pyrethrum value chains were effectively identified through value chain studies
     leading to productivity, competitiveness, and increased incomes. Institutional
     framework through legal establishment of the Cotton Development Authority and
     the Kenya Leather Development Council was a demonstration of the effectiveness
     of the policy lobbing strategy developed by the respective Apex Committee’s as
     part of their strategic plans.
  • Through initiatives of the project of engaging local business development service
     (BDS) providers, the various value chain beneficiaries, especially cooperatives,
     appreciated the role of BDS. This significantly increased the subcontracting of
     local service providers with some cooperatives even starting the processing of
     their own coffee. The project also observed the certification of cooperatives in the
     coffee sector through UTZ Kapeh, fair trade and other certification processes
     through local service providers.
  • The Directorate of Industrial Training (DIT) was restructured into an autonomous
     institution named the National Industrial Training Authority following the
     enactment of the Industrial Training (Amendment) Act, 2011. The newly
     established Authority will among other issues be involved in assessing and
     collecting industrial training levy and fees.
  • Over 104 case studies were developed against a targeted rate of 100 local case
     studies. The local case studies developed were sector based and related to specific
     business issues (challenges). Case based instruction and teaching has been
     introduced and integrated in the curriculum of the business schools of the three
     participating universities namely: JKUAT, Kenyatta University and Strathmore
     Universities. The 3 universities have come together, post project completion, and
     have agreed to develop local case studies based on successful business
     personalities. This will be undertaken through support from the respective
     organizations whose case studies are being developed and showcased.
  • The Ministry, has post project implementation, partnered with the International
     Labour Organization’s Youth Enterprises Program for conducting the Business
     Plan Competition.

Question No. 11 – Component Results



                                          55
   √Yes, I agree (that the results indicators have been met for the components) but there
are shortcomings.
    • The exact number of jobs was difficult to measure especially for the components
       that were indirectly contributing to the beneficiaries. This includes the
       subcomponents: FSDT; Pilot value chain matching grant (Consultancies created
       vis-à-vis cooperatives supported); restructuring of the industrial training levy
       fund; and local case teaching.
    • Systemic change was observed through direct and indirect interventions such as:
       increased financial products to MSMEs; Credit rating; opening of branches by
       financial institutions and introduction of agent banking due to the results of
       FINACCESS (Financial Access surveys); value chain approach to sector
       development; increased demand for BDS services and certification of cooperative
       societies; creation of centres for entrepreneurial excellence for MSMEs and use
       local case teaching; and greater interaction between universities and MSMEs

Question No. 12 - Results Framework

   √Yes, I agree (that you have regularly used the framework to monitor and evaluate
progress made under the project.
   • Phase 2 of the project extension enhanced the results framework and revised
       performance indicators. This assisted in evaluating progress on a quarterly basis;
       and
   • The project activities were mainstreamed in the Ministry’s Performance Contract
       and the results framework assisted in monitoring and evaluating progress.

Question No. 13 – Implementation Delays (causes)

   √Weakened management commitment to the Project due to changes in institutional
policy and/or priorities
   √Delays in assigning staff to work on the Project and providing budget for the
PMU/PIU and the technical teams
   √Changes in main staff for project management and implementation
   √Lack of technical capacity for implementing the Project
   √Unforeseen technical difficulties
   √Procurement regulation and procedures of the Government and/or your institution
   √The World Bank’s procurement guidelines and procedures
   √Quality of financial management and planning
   √Internal control problems

Question No. 14 - Project Restructuring

    √Yes, I agree (that the restructuring was effective to the extent that the main obstacles
to achieving the PDOs were dealt with and the specific implementation problems were
overcome).


                                             56
   •   Project absorption increased significantly through increased awareness and
       understanding by beneficiaries. Demand for project services increased
       significantly;
   •   Reallocation of funds from slow moving sub-components to needy areas assisted
       in deepening initiatives started, and supporting sustainability of the interventions
   •   Closer collaboration between the project Secretariat and PMC. Short term World
       Bank consultants also assisted in monitoring. In particular, the holding of weekly
       project implementation status meetings between the PMC, World Bank and
       Project Secretariat assisted in fast tracking project implementation.
   •   Institutional capacity was built at the Ministry, Project Secretariat and PMC levels.
       Better control of World Bank procurement and financial requirements has been
       developed; and some technical implementing partners, such as those involved in
       value chain development, are considered authorities in the subject matter by other
       players involved in development work.

Question No. 15 – Risk Management

   √Yes, I agree (that risks to the MSME project have been identified and addressed on a
regular basis) but there are shortcomings.
   • Financial flow: The risk of project demands was not properly analyzed. Initially
        the absorption was low thereby affecting planning for funds to be requisitioned
        from the World Bank. This was then improved but again, risk of not including the
        required financial needs for the project in the Government budget was not
        envisaged.
   • Awareness and Ownership: The risk of the effect of awareness and ownership on
        demand and service delivery was not properly evaluated. After increased
        awareness, demand for participation by fund managers significantly increased but
        deals were slow in coming after signing contracts.

Question No. 16– Project Costing and Financing

    Yes, I agree (that the costs involved are reasonable and the financing plan for the
project is adequate) but there are shortcomings
    • Allocation of funds within the sub-components was not adequately planned with
        Access to Finance component receiving a lot of funding against other sub-
        components. Re-allocation had to be done to other sub-components such as the
        value chain matching grant; GBSN and restructuring of the industrial Training
        Levy Scheme.
    • Allocation for counterpart funding had to be increased midstream and at some
        point, its inadequacy almost resulted in delays of payments to consultants whose
        total payment included an allocation of counterpart funding.




                                            57
  √No, we are not aware (that the estimated Net Present Value (NPV) of the MSME
project at appraisal was US$19.8 million).

Question No. 17 – GoK/Your Team’s Performance

  √Yes, I agree (that the Government’s/Your team’s performance in project
implementation is satisfactory) but there are shortcomings.
   • Weakened management commitment and guidance affected the Governments’
      contribution to the project. The project had to hold 3 PSC sensitization retreats
      better understanding of the project’s objectives and complex implementation
      guidance by incoming/new members;
   • As the project was entirely being implemented by private sector players,
      ownership and interest was low leading to difficulties/delays in adhering to GoK
      procurement procedures such as approvals from the Ministerial Tender
      Committee. Similarly, the accounting and auditing of the project’s activities was
      done separately from that of the Ministry’s activities which is normally not the
      case with other projects.
   • Lack of understanding on the World Bank procurement and financial regulations
      affected project implementation. The project had difficulties in reporting and
      auditing of the financial statements due to the need to meet World Bank
      requirements and Kenya National Audit Office procedures and guidelines.

Question No. 18 – The World Bank Performance

   √Yes, I agree (that the Bank’s performance in project supervision is satisfactory).
   • The World Bank held training sessions and workshops on its requirements for the
      entire Worlds Bank portfolio and provided a forum for projects to share
      experiences;
   • The World Bank short term consultants assisted in monitoring performance and
      this assisted project implementation. The World Bank TTL, was posted in Kenya
      and this assisted in understanding requirements for ‘No Objection’ and quick
      processing of the same. The World Bank representatives also held various
      meetings with the specialists on Finance, procurement and communication. The
      Task Team Leader attended PSC meetings as ex-officio members and this created
      awareness of World Bank requirements, procedures and processes. This helped
      improve the level of implementation.

Question No. 19 – Project Sustainability

   √ Negligible to Low (the risk to the Project’s outcomes and results)

Identified main risks:



                                           58
   •   Some activities of the pilot value chain matching grant may not be extended after
       the project. This is in the pyrethrum and coffee sector. These value chains do not
       have respective statutory bodies that bring together representatives in the various
       levels of the value chain such as the Cotton Development Authority and Kenya
       Leather Development Council.
   •   Discontinuity in the activities of the SME Risk Capital and TA Funds. Whereas
       an ‘evergreen’ was created that is currently being used by Business Partners
       International, it is inadequate. Other interested fund managers cannot assess the
       fund at BPI.

Outlines of GoK’ plan/strategy for enhancing MSME competitiveness in the next three to
five years:
    • The Ministry, through its field offices will continue supporting the MSMEs in
        provision of Business Development Services through Constituency Industrial
        Development Centres and SME parks. Value addition activities and through the
        National Industrial Development Plan, 7 sectors have been identified for
        development.
    • The Ministry will continue with activities of increasing the productivity of the
        MSMEs through training in collaboration with the Productivity Centre of Kenya.
        Ministry institutions, such as Numerical Machining complex is already being
        engaged to support subcontracting activities for MSMEs in machine tools, spares
        and machine components.
    • The Ministry, in collaboration with private sector players, will continue running
        the Business Plan Competition.
    • The Development Financial Institutions are being re-capitalized and restructured
        to provide more funding to MSMEs.
    • Other strategies for MSME development that have been put in place will support
        market access; quality enhancement; human resource skills development;
        facilitate incubation and sub-contracting; transfer of technology; Standardization
        and certification.

Question No. 20 – Lessons Learned

   •   The Project Management Unit should be within the relevant Ministry/Department
       and not entirely in the private sector for full ownership and effective
       implementation of the project;
   •   Communication and outreach component should be incorporated for the success
       of any project both in attracting demand and communicating successes;
   •   Capacity Building of the Project Secretariat should begin during the Project
       Preparation Stage and measures to retained the trained staff put in place for the
       entire period of project implementation;


                                            59
•   The project design should be simple with limited targeted beneficiaries and not
    multi-sectoral and complex as the MSME Project. Each of the components would
    have been an entire project on its own.
•   Though intended, the complementarity and integration of the various sub-
    components was not effectively undertaken. Similarly, each of the components
    would have easily operated effectively as standalone projects.
•   Value Chain matching Grants operate better in a fully liberalized environment and
    ‘Apex Committees’ should be legalized through statutory legislation for
    effectiveness and continuity.
•   Value Chain approach is the most effective way of developing a sector as all the
    facets are considered through a concerted & integrated approach. ‘A chain is as
    strong as the weakest link’.
•   Use of local case studies is an effective way of linking Universities to the MSMEs
    and enhancing entrepreneurship and competitiveness by MSMEs.
•   SME Risk Capital funds are more effective when disbursed with a technical
    assistance component. This further increases productivity of the MSMEs and
    reduces the loan default rate considerably.
•   SMEs begin to engage and use consultancy services when they understand its
    importance through piloting.




                                        60
                     Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. The World Bank: Project Appraisal Document, Kenya MSME Competitiveness
    Project, June 15, 2004
2. The World Bank Kenya MSME Competitiveness team: Identification, Appraisal,
    Supervision and MTR aide memoirs
3. The World Bank: Project Paper, Restructuring of the Kenya MSME Competitiveness
    Project, December 28, 2009
4. The World Bank: Project Status and Implementation Reports, June 2005 – June 2012
5. The World Bank: Kenya Growth and competitiveness, January 27, 2005
6. The World Bank: Kenya Country Partnership Strategy for FY2010-13, March 23,
    2010
7. The World Bank: Doing Business in Kenya 2012
8. The World Bank: A review of the Joint IDA-IFC Micro, Small and Medium
    Enterprise Pilot Program, October 2006
9. The Government of Kenya: Kenya Vision 2030, October 30, 2006
10. Triodos &Facet (project impact assessment consultant): Kenya MSME
    Competitiveness Project Impact Report, June 2012
11. Triodos & Facet: Kenya MSME Competitiveness Project Baseline Survey reports,
    September 2008, March 2009 and June 2010
12. Triodos & Facet: Kenya MSME Competitiveness Project Operational Audit reports,
    November 2007, May 2009 and April 2010
13. FSD Kenya: FSD Kenya Strategy Briefs 2011 – 2015
14. Oxford Policy Management & Center for Development Studies (independent
    reviewer – FSD Kenya IMPACT ASSESSMENT): FSD Kenya Impact Assessment
    Summary Report, January 2010
15. Business Partners, South Africa (Parent company of the TIP for C1B): Annual
    Report 2012
16. Deloitte Consulting Ltd, Kenya (TIP for C2A): Value-chain based Matching Grant
    documentation reports, 2012




                                        61
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33426R2


                                                                                                                 K E N YA
                                                                                      CITIES AND TOWNS                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                                                      DISTRICT CAPITALS*                                                  RAILROADS

                                                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                      RIVERS                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                      *not all District Capitals are shown.



              34°E                                                  36°E                                                               38°E                                                                  40°E                                                       42°E

 SOUTH SUDAN
                                                                           To Murle


                                                                                                                                                  ETHIOPIA
               To                                          Karungu
              Juba            Lotikipi
                                            Plain
                              Lokichokio
                                                                                    Chalbi                                                                                                                                                                                  To 4°N
4°N
                                                                                    Desert                                                                         To                                                                          Ramu       Mandera           Imi
                                      Kakuma                                                                                                                       Dila




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            lls
                                                                                 Lake




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hi
                                                                                                                                                Sololo
                                                                                 Tu r k a n a                  North Horr
                                                                                                                                                                             Moyale                                           Mandera




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       sa
                                           Turkana




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    is
                                                              Lodwar




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 an
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  D
                                                                                                                  Marsabit
                                                      el
                                                   Turkw




                                                                                                                                                                                                Buna                                El Wak



      UGANDA                                                    Lokichar
                                                                                                      South Horr
                                                                                                                                          Marsabit                                                           Tarbaj
                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                              tns
2°N                                                                        Kangatet                                       M                                                                                           Wajir                                                        2°N
                                                                                                                     to
                                           West Pokot                                                           do                                                                     Lo g
                                                                                                          N                                                                                aB                    Wajir
                                             Che                                                 Samburu                                                                                     og
                                                                                                                                                                                                  al
                                                  ran                                                                                                                                                                         Lak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bor
                                                       ga                                                                                                  Isiolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SO M A L I A
                                                                                                      Milgis




                                                Hil       ny
                                                    ls
                                                                                                                                                                ’iro
                    To             Trans Nzoia Elgeyo/                                          Maralal                                                    Ng                                            Bilesha Plain
                   Mbale           Kitale                                  Kapedo
                                                 Marakwet                                                                                       Ewaso                  Mando
                                                                   Baringo                                                     Archer’s                                 Gashi
                               Bungoma          Uasin                                                                          Post                      Garba
          To                                    Gishu                                                                                                    Tula
        Kampala      Busia                                             Marigat
                                                      Eldoret
                              Kakamega                                                                            Isiolo                                         Mbalambala
                      Kakamega                                                               Laikipia                                                                                                                              D   e ra           To
                                           Nandi                    Nyahururu                                                   Meru                                                                                           Lak                 Kismaayo
                      Butere                                                                              Nanyuki
                                 Vihiga                                  Falls
0°                    Siaya                                                                                           Mt. Kenya                                                                                                                                                     0°
                             Kisumu Kisumu                                      Nyandarua
                                                                                                                      (5,199 m)                                  Tana
                                            Kericho                                                                             Tharaka-Nithi
                                                                Nakuru                      Nyeri              Kirinyaga
                      Homa Bay                      Kericho          Nakuru                                                                                                                            Garissa         Garissa
                                                                                                 Nyeri                     Embu
                                     Nyamira                               Gilgil
                     Karungu                                                                                                  Embu                 Nguni
                                                Bomet                                             Murang'a
      Lake              Migori
                                   Kisii
                                                 ra                                              Thika
                                               Ma                                            Kiambu                                                                                                            Bura
Victoria            To                                Narok         Narok
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kolbio
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bur Gavo
                  Musoma               Lolgorien            Ma                                   NAIROBI                                                                                                                  Ngang
                                                                   u E                   Nairobi     Machakos
                                                                                                                                           Kitui Kitui                                                                          erab
                                                                       sc       arp                                                                                                        Tana River                                eli
                                                                                                                  Machakos                                Thua                                                              Plain
                                                                                      me
                                                                                           nt    Konza
                                                                     Magadi                                            Makueni                                                                                                                Bodhei
2°S                                                                                        Kajiado                               Ya t t         Ikutha                                                                        Lamu                                                 2°S
                                                      To                                                                                  a                                     A th
                                                                                                                                                                                       i
                                                   Seronera                                                                                   Pla
                                                                                                                                                    tea                                                Garsen
                                                                                                                                          Kibwezi          u                                                                                   Lamu
                                                                                                   Namanga

                                                                                        To
                                                                                      Arusha
                                                                                                                                                         Tsavo                                      Kilifi
                                                                                                                                                                                           Galana
                                                                                                                                          Tsavo
                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                   Moshi                                   Voi                                                        Malindi                   INDIA N
             KENYA                                                     TANZANIA                                                                 Taita/Taveta
                                                                                                                                                                            Mackinnon
                                                                                                                                                                            Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OCEA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mombasa                                   the Map Design Unit of The       4°S
                                                                                                                                                                          Kwale                        Mombasa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                             Kwale                                                                colors, denominations and
                                                                            0         40         80         120           160         200 Kilometers                                                                                              any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                             Shimoni                                              Group, any judgment on the
                                                                            0               40                   80               120 Miles                      To
                                                                                                                                                      Dar Es Salaam                                                                               legal status of any territory,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
              34°E                                                  36°E                                                               38°E                                                                  40°E                                 boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            JULY 2011
