Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB779 
Project Name 
Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Competitiveness Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Micro- and SME finance (50%);Other domestic and international 
trade (50%) 
Project ID 
P085007 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Kenya 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Trade and Industry 
Kenya 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
July 6, 2004 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
For the decade after independence in 1963, Kenya was considered one of the most prosperous and 
politically stable countries in East Africa.  The following two decades of economic mismanagement, 
however, reversed this enviable position to a state of extensive poverty (currently estimated at 56 percent 
of the population) and economic decline.  Average GDP growth fell from approximately seven percent in 
the 1970s to just over two percent in the 1990s.  The resultant stagnation was accompanied by a decline in 
the efficiency of capital and factor productivity, negatively impacting Kenya’s competitiveness in the 
world economy. 
 
A
new government was elected in December 2002 on a platform of change.  It is committed to reversing 
the past decades’ economic decline, mismanagement, contraction in per capita income and increase in the 
numbers living below the poverty line.  It has prepared the 
Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and 
Employment Creation, 2003-2007 (ERS)
 which outlines a recovery centered on a reanimated private 
sector.  Reviving private sector activity and investment and specifically micro, small, and medium sized 
enterprise (MSME) development, feature prominently in the Government’s strategy for raising incomes 
and employment.  
 
Data on the MSME sector in Kenya is scarce; although the National MSE Baseline Survey
1
provides 
comprehensive and reliable information, it has not been updated since 1999 and does not contain 
information for medium-sized firms.
2
The survey indicates that the contribution of the MSE sector to 
GDP increased from 13.8 percent in 1993 to 18.4 percent in 1999.  Of the labor force in this segment (1-
50 employees), 99 percent was concentrated in enterprises of less than 10 workers, while only 1 percent 
comprised firms with 10-50 employees.   
1
Central Bureau of Statistics, International Center for Economic Growth, and K-Rep Holdings, National Micro and 
Small Enterprise Baseline Survey
,
1999. 
2
The available surveys do not cite employment figures for medium-sized firms (50-99 employees per firm); this 
Project’s target group will, however, include not only micro (1-9 employees) and small (10-49 employees), but also 
medium-sized firms, as this segment plays a critical role in employment generation and market linkages.   
Page  2
The increasing role of the MSME sector is confirmed by the recently completed Kenya 2003 Economic 
Survey.
3
According to the survey, total employment recorded in the informal sector increased from 3.7 
employees in 1999 to 5.1 million in 2002, while the formal sector increased only from 1.74 million to 
1.76 million employees during the same period.
4
However, the growth of the informal sector in number 
of employees does not necessarily reflect growth and high productivity of the enterprise itself, as the 
number of informal sector companies grew largely because of the depressed formal economy and 
underemployment in the formal firms. 
 
Specific sector issues include: 
 
Market failures have constrained MSME development in Kenya, as in many developing countries, by 
limiting the necessary access to information, finance, labor skills, and business development services 
(BDS) to increase competitiveness and productivity.  Lack of information and past experience with 
transactions is a common factor that limits the willingness of small firms to pay for services and potential 
suppliers to take risks (or calculate them reliably) or to adapt products to MSMEs.  Past dependence on 
government agencies for these services, often at highly subsidized rates, has blunted MSMEs’ orientation 
toward seeking private providers, who in turn have been crowded out.  
 
Nevertheless, Kenya, with its long private sector tradition, has significant potential to establish 
sustainable financial, business and other service markets suitable for MSMEs.  Recent experience with 
demand-driven approaches within the Bank and other donor projects indicates that well-designed 
subsidies can leverage potential demand and bring forth a sustainable supply response beyond the life of 
the subsidy.  The proposed project takes a strategic approach to overcoming market failures and raising 
competitiveness through short-to-medium term support designed to leverage sustained willingness of 
MSMEs to pay for services, as well as to catalyze potential suppliers to consider product adaptation and 
innovation for the MSME market.
 
Access to Finance
:
A
significant gap remains between the small portion of the informal economy served 
by microfinance institutions (MFIs) and Savings and Credit Cooperatives (SACCOs), and the narrow 
portion of the formal economy served by commercial banks and licensed non-bank financial institutions.  
On one end of the spectrum, the financial market catering to the lower end of the market is comprised of 
over 5,000 institutions which provide microfinance products.  Within this diverse group (which include 
MFIs and SACCOs), the institutions target niche segments of the population with different instruments, 
cover different geographical areas, and are guided by different forms of regulation and supervision.  
These financial institutions have helped increase access for the lower end of the market, particularly for 
the entrepreneurial poor engaged in petty trade or other income-earning activities with rapid turnover.  
However, their poverty focus and difficulty in achieving commercial licensed status (needed to mobilize 
savings for scaling up) has limited their development of products suitable for enterprise-based lending.    
 
On the other end of the spectrum is the commercial banking sector, which in Kenya is large (estimated at 
Ksh 491 billion, or approximately USD 6.5 billion equivalent, as of November 2003) and fairly active.  
However, banks have traditionally avoided lending to the MSME sector due to their relatively high 
transaction costs, difficulties assessing and managing risk, and the inability of most small firms to provide 
3
Central Bureau of Statistics, Ministry of Planning and National Development, Economic Survey
,
2003. 
4
The survey does not specifically indicate the number and importance of the MSMEs; however, based on a 
methodology using an internationally adopted and widely accepted definition, calculate the size of the informal 
sector which can reasonably be used as a proxy.  This definition of the informal sector includes domestic servants 
which are not considered as MSEs in Kenya.  The sector as reported in the Economic Survey is therefore larger than 
the actual MSE sector, but can still be used as a proxy. 
Page  3
the required f
inancial documentation and collateral.  This problem has been exacerbated by the ‘crowding 
out’ effect of Kenyan Government debt instruments, which effectively provided high risk-free returns for 
the banks.  The recent dramatic change in this situation,  with yields of government debt at record low 
levels and very high liquidity in the banking sector, has greatly increased the interest of commercial banks 
in lending to MFIs and MSMEs.  However, inroads have been limited by the above-mentioned market 
constraints and imperfections. 
 
To address the large gap in the middle, inroads can be made by assisting MFIs to move upmarket and 
commercial financial institutions to move downmarket.  Yet, the mid-range SME segment remains very 
difficult to reach through either standard microfinance or commercial bank methodologies.  SME loan 
requirements tend to be large relative to microfinance character-based loan sizes, but too small to justify 
the costs of processing according to commercial bank requirements – especially when their weak financial 
management systems may make data collection and loan monitoring more onerous than for larger firms.  
The heavy collateral requirements that banks impose to help manage risk, serves to screen out the vast 
majority of SMEs.  Hence, in addition to improving SME access to commercial loans, it will be necessary 
to develop a range of other commercially viable financial instruments to help meet the various financing 
needs of SMEs.  
 
Labor Productivity and Management Skills
:
Labor productivity features prominently among the key 
factors that drive economic competitiveness and growth.  Recent analysis of the manufacturing sector in 
Kenya indicates that both labor and capital productivity have declined significantly when compared to the 
mid-1990s.  The overall median value-added per worker in Kenya is slightly higher today (US$3,457) 
than in 1999 (US$3,025), but current levels have still not recovered to that of the mid-90’s (US$4,520).  
ICA data also suggests that value-added per worker in small firms specifically have consistently 
decreased over the last decade (US$3,099 in 1994; US$ 2,521 in 1999 and US$2,439 in 2003).
 5
 
Rising unit labor costs has been identified as a key factor in the erosion of the competitiveness of the 
Kenyan manufacturing sector.
6
Although unit labor cost in Kenya is lower than other Sub-Saharan 
African countries, it is about 12 per cent higher than in India and 33 per cent higher than in China.
7
Given the higher rate of literacy among the Kenyan workforce when compared to other sub-Saharan 
countries, the labor productivity issues are associated more with the prevalence, level and quality of skills 
development and technical training.
8
Labor market imperfections make it difficult to overcome this gap.  Kenya’s formal technical, vocational 
and educational training (TVET) institutions have little orientation toward the practical needs of the 
enterprise sector.  While the Industrial Training Levy scheme is intended to overcome the tendency of 
firms to underinvest in training, the current operation of the scheme does not adequately meet the 
expectations and requirements of firms both in terms of capacity and quality of skills delivery systems. 
 
Weak market linkages:
 
Collaboration as well as competition are required among enterprises in order to 
assure that full growth potential is realized within the MSME sector.   The joint use of assets, the 
development of external markets through business support services and the adoption of trade standards 
and protocols among trading partners are some of the ways in which collaboration can reduce transaction 
costs, improve market access and enhance competitiveness.     
 
5
World Bank RPED, Investment Climate Assessment
,
2004 
6
World Bank, Country Economic Memorandum
,
2003 
7
World Bank RPED, Investment Climate Assessment
,
2004 
8
World Bank, Country Economic Memorandum
,
2003 
Page  4
In the case of Kenya, however, a value chain analysis of four sub-sectors, completed as part of project 
preparation, demonstrates that mutual support systems and value chain linkages are extremely weak.   A 
small number of large privately operated firms compensate for this weakness by internalizing value 
adding activities along the entire value chain under the vertical control of their own enterprises.   This  
“vertical internalization” of  entire  farm-to-finished good value chains is a “ second best” solution which 
reduces the ability and competitive adaptability of enterprises which adopt it.  In any case, vertical 
integration within a single enterprise is not an option for MSMEs.  The value chain study also found that 
participants within value chains are highly compartmentalized and that commercial links between 
suppliers and buyers tend to be ad-hoc, one-time transactions and highly personalized.  Moreover, high 
levels of distrust exist among companies within sub-sectors, and between farm level producers and farm 
product processors/merchandisers.   As a result, transaction costs tend to be extremely high and useful 
information tends not to be distributed quickly and efficiently within chains.   
 
Support institutions that ordinarily facilitate subcontracting relationships in developed markets are absent 
in the Kenyan economy, and BDS providers are oriented mainly toward large firms.  These weaknesses 
are compounded by ineffective or non-existent sub-sector membership associations, which in other 
countries have assisted with the  development of supply chain linkages between key segments.  This set of 
factors makes it extremely difficult for MSMEs to rely on vendors or customers as sources of competitive 
advantage or to depend on specialized BDS providers to assist with strategic enterprise development.  As 
a
direct result, entire value chains remain frozen in early stages of their strategic development — 
constrained by management incompetencies, resources and technologies isolated from markets that tend 
to be available only within individual enterprises. 
 
Business and Regulatory Environment
:
The creation of an enabling environment for private 
investment, both local and foreign, is a clearly stated government priority in the 
ERS
.
These promises 
have generated high expectations among investors and the population at large.  Although resolutions to 
the myriad of problems are complex and long-term, intermediate-term reforms demanded by the private 
sector can be implemented within the next few years.    
 
According to a survey conducted in 2003, firms that were registered at start-up are significantly more 
likely to “graduate” (grow to a larger size category) than those that are unregistered.  “Registration seems 
to be an epoch in the lifecycle of informal firms and is crucial for firm graduation.  This finding leads to 
the conclusion that informality imposes major penalties on firms with uncertain legal status that reduces 
access to credit and public services such as electricity, telephone and water, all of which are important for 
improved performance and graduation.”
9
To date, there have been a few successful attempts to reform the business environment in Kenya.  Most 
notably, the Government of Kenya with technical assistance and funding from DFID, introduced in 2000 
the single business permit which combined 16 individual locally issued business licenses into one.   
However, the process of formalization still remains complex – it is regulated by different procedures and 
requires multiple trips to Nairobi.  According to Doing Business data, firms who wish to register formally 
are required to perform 11 separate procedures, which takes on average about 60 days.  Some informal 
industry estimates suggest the process is even more complex and time consuming.  While the cost, time, 
and complexity are better than the Sub-Saharan Africa average and in line with other low income 
countries, these numbers compare unfavorably with high-income countries. 
 
In most cases, MSMEs also need to deal with local authorities – municipalities – to obtain different types 
of permits to start their businesses.  The impact of the regulatory environment on MSMEs are more 
9
African Centre for Economic Growth, “Growth and Transformation of Small Manufacturing Firms in Africa: 
Insights from Ghana, Kenya, and Zimbabwe”, 2003. 
Page  5
extensive than for larger firms as the time and cost of registering a business and dealing with disputes 
with regulatory agencies is more expensive per unit of production.  The informal sector also bears high 
costs from harassment for non-compliance and from risks of permanently being closed.
10
 
These 
constraints, coupled with the problems associated with tax and tax administration, serve as an incentive 
for firms to operate informally.
 
2. Objectives 
The project aims to increase productivity and employment in participating MSMEs.  This objective will 
be achieved by strengthening financial and non-financial markets to meet the demand of MSMEs, 
strengthening institutional support for employable skills and business management, and reducing critical 
investment climate constraints on MSMEs.  The project will focus on key value chains and on both 
formal small and medium enterprises and informal microenterprises that have high potential for dynamic 
growth, including “graduation” from informal to formal status. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy, to be discussed at the Board on June 17, 2004, is a strategy of 
reengagement.  The thrust of the Bank’s program for FY 2004 to 2007 supports the goals set forth in the 
Economic Recovery Strategy
,
stimulating growth with equity, reducing poverty, and consolidating 
improvements in governance.  This project addresses two of these three main pillars  -- stimulating 
economic growth, while reducing poverty.   
 
This project falls under the multi-country joint IDA/IFC Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise 
Development Pilot Program for Africa
11
,
intended to achieve greater impact for the country by integrating 
the expertise, resources and instruments of the World Bank, IFC, and other bilateral donors and 
leveraging the comparative advantages of these institutions.  This approach will enable the World Bank 
Group to respond more effectively to African client countries’ growing demands for assistance to put 
MSMEs in the forefront of private-led growth and employment generation for poverty reduction.  The 
first operation developed under this Program, for Nigeria (Report Number 27213-UNI), demonstrated the 
synergy of combining IDA’s ability to address policy and regulatory issues and to provide technical 
assistance with IFC’s ability to assess market opportunities and mobilize investment (e.g., for 
microfinance). The proposed project adopts a similar innovative approach for MSME development in 
Kenya.   
 
4. Description 
The project supports the Government program to increase the competitiveness of MSMEs through 
mutually reinforcing components – access to finance, strengthening enterprise skills and market linkages, 
and improving the business environment. 
 
Component One 
–
Access to Finance 
Subcomponent A - Financial Sector Deepening (IDA US$4 mm and US$10-15mm from DFID) 
This component will co-finance a Financial Sector Deepening Trust, aimed at deepening and expanding 
the reach of financial services and products that are available to MSMEs.  This will be achieved through 
performance based matching grants to assist a range of financial institutions to build capacity to provide 
financial services to different segments of the MSME sector.   This component will support the following: 
 
10
 KIPPRA, “Review of Government Policies for the Promotion of Micro and Smallscale Enterprises in Kenya”, 
2002 
11
 The “Program Framework Document for a Joint IDA/IFC Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise Development 
Pilot Program for Africa” [IDA/SecM2003-0614] was discussed with the Board in December 2003 
Page  6
ƒ
MFI Strengthening, Outreach and Commercialization
:
Capacity building in existing MFIs and 
SACCOs, with three main areas of focus:  (i) a technical skills transfer program for well-performing 
MFIs engaged primarily in group lending, designed to introduce new systems and lending 
methodologies to enable them to add individual lending products that will facilitate the graduation of 
successful group-based clients; (ii) technical assistance and additional capacity building to existing 
MFIs and NGOs with a regional/provincial focus to leverage their ability to expand lending 
operations and outreach in underserved areas; and (iii) skills transfer and technical assistance to high-
potential SACCOs and MFIs to improve their operations, management and governance structures for 
greater commercial orientation and outreach on a sustainable basis (as well as for eventual licensing 
under the new MFI Bill).   
 
ƒ
Commercial Financial Institutions Moving Downmarket
:
Capacity building and product development 
in commercial financial institutions - development and implementation of a technical skills transfer 
program for commercial financial institutions that are interested in new systems and lending 
methodologies for the MSME market segments.  The technical assistance will be provided on a cost-
shared basis to commercial banks and non-bank financial institutions or subsidiaries that provide 
strong evidence of a management commitment to extend further into the MSME credit market.  
Particular attention will be given to the introduction of new financial products appropriate for 
MSMEs, such as leasing and discounting receivables. 
 
Subcomponent B 
–
SME Risk Capital and Technical Assistance Fund (IDA US$6.5 mm; other private 
investment US$15 mm) 
There are several reasons why small and medium firms cannot access commercial bank financing, not 
only in Kenya, but also in many developing countries around the world.  Banks typically require well 
secured collateral from applicants and are ill-suited to serve the needs of young small and medium-sized 
firms due to information asymmetries on project quality between bankers and entrepreneurs and the lack 
of adequate collateral.  Risk capital funds, on the other hand, specialize in the financing of start-up and 
first expansion projects and provide close support and supervision, which can mitigate these asymmetries 
and later provide comfort to banks for the financing of such projects.  By solving problems relating to 
information asymmetries, risk capital funds can therefore bridge the gap between emerging entrepreneurs 
and the banking system. 
 
However, while risk capital financing is a potential solution to the difficulties SMEs have accessing and 
servicing debt financing, this type of financing instrument for SMEs in Africa has suffered from obstacles 
related to limited high-growth potential, exit opportunities for equity investors and high costs of 
processing for relatively small investment amounts.  Consistent with the objectives of subcomponent A, 
this subcomponent will help catalyze new risk capital instruments (mix of debt, equity and quasi-equity) 
tailored for SMEs by adapting methodologies that have successfully reached a large number of SMEs in 
other countries.  IDA funds would  be used to support the introduction of a risk capital SME fund in 
Kenya by sharing a portion of the operating costs of the fund and through the establishment of an 
associated TA facility for the SME investees, subject to fulfillment of eligibility and performance 
requirements.  The use of IDA funds is justified by the ability to leverage relatively large amounts of 
private investment funds designed to support significant numbers of SMEs. 
 
IDA funds would additionally be used to create a Technical Assistance Fund for SME investees of 
existing or new Kenyan risk capital funds to promote and encourage additional investments in the SME 
sector.  Selection of beneficiaries will be determined on the basis of proposals received in response to 
requests for expressions of interest to potential investors and fund managers in accordance with 
established eligibility and performance criteria.
 
Page  7
Component Two 
–
Strengthening Enterprise Skills and Market Linkages 
 
Subcomponent A 
–
Pilot Value Chain Based Matching Grant Program (IDA US$ 4 mm)
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen competitiveness and raise value-added in supply 
chains by enhancing access to business development services (BDS) and strengthen linkages (both 
between firms and from MSMEs to markets).  The core of the subcomponent would be a matching grant 
fund designed to stimulate increased demand by MSMEs for BDS and a supply response oriented toward 
servicing specific markets on a sustainable basis.  The fund would provide partial financing for eligible 
training and other BDS, particularly ‘knowledge-based’ services directed toward improving 
competitiveness and performance at critical points in value chains. To fill the information gap and 
strengthen the role of intermediaries needed to make BDS markets function, access to the Fund would be 
based on the submission and approval of a value chain based business plan drafted jointly by 
representative companies and/or industry associations/networks.   For example, in the case of the cotton-
to-apparel supply chain, companies or representatives from member-based organizations in the cotton, 
ginning, spinning/weaving, knitting, and apparel industries would be expected to work together to 
formulate a joint business plan that addresses key sub-sector issues, as well as to develop a 
comprehensive chain strategy.  The purpose of the pilot would be to act as a demonstration model and 
provide lessons and best practices that can be scaled up and applied across other value chains
.
Subcomponent B 
–
Restructuring of the Industrial Training Levy Scheme (IDA US$0.5 mm)
The objective of this subcomponent is to enhance the level and quality of technical training and skills 
development in order to increase labor productivity and competitiveness of key economic sectors.   Kenya 
has a long-established Industrial Training Levy scheme under which employers pay a levy to a dedicated 
industrial training fund which provides reimbursement of total or partial expenses for pre-approved 
training programs.  Firms that contribute a mandatory levy to the fund (in principle, those with more than 
five workers) have an incentive to train their workers, offsetting the tendency to under-invest in training 
due to labor mobility. While the scheme is broadly accepted by the Kenyan private sector and has been 
useful in the past, there is a need to modernize and restructure it to meet the evolving skills needs of firms 
in the growing sectors of the economy.  The expectation is that increased training of employees at all 
levels will lead to higher levels of labor force productivity.  Under this subcomponent, a study will be 
carried out to address four key issues: (i) the development of an industrial skills funding strategy that is 
demand driven and based on the principles of private-public participation, and which is consistent with 
on-going Government initiatives; (ii) the development of a new legal, regulatory and institutional 
framework to more effectively support the delivery of industrial skills; (iii)
 
design of
 
a
future levy fund 
governance, management and institutional arrangements to fit the Kenyan environment.  The study will 
consider the merits of adopting a single levy mechanism and changing the levy collection mechanism.  It 
will also design a transparent and efficient system for firm registration, training approval, submission and 
approval of claims and reimbursements; and (iv) re-design the existing industrial training qualification 
structure, supported by a new skills needs assessment and accreditation practices in consultation with the 
private sector. 
 
Subcomponent C  
–
Global Business School Network: Improving opportunities and training 
for Entrepreneurs and MSMEs (IDA US$2.0 mm)
This component will introduce a Business Plan/Innovation Competition (US$1.4 mm) through a 
consortium of Kenyan institutions (to be competitively selected), based upon best practice models to 
encourage innovative business ideas.  The competition would provide potential entrepreneurs with 
screening, training, and mentoring.  The business plan competition may adopt prizes on themes such as 
Page  8
jua kali, social enterprise, and rural.  Aspects of this subcomponent will be modeled on the Development 
Marketplace.  The IDA support will be phased over five years, eventually supporting only 25 percent of 
the costs of the program in year five, in order to ensure ownership and sustainability of program. 
 
Additionally, the component will scale up activities of Global Business School Network (GBSN) (US$0.6 
mm), designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of business schools in developing countries through 
a
non-profit entity called Global Business School Network Center.  The GBSN Center brings together top 
global business schools with business schools in developing countries and creates, for the first time, a 
multilateral approach to managerial capacity building.  In Kenya, GBSN Center will be piloting its 
activities with at least three business schools.  The activities to be implemented at the business 
management schools in Kenya are twofold.  First, strengthening the curriculum and 
development/integration of locally relevant cases to increase effectiveness of the training available for 
entrepreneurs and owners of MSMEs.  Second, schools will develop short courses for managers of 
MSMEs who do not have the time and/or resources to become full time business students. 
 
Component Three 
–
Improving the Business Environment (IDA US$2mm) 
This component will contribute to improvement of the business environment by reducing the costs of 
investment and doing business.  Specifically, it will reduce cost of compliance with business regulations 
for the formal sector and create incentives for informal MSMEs to graduate to higher levels of formality, 
and thus facilitate their access to resources for growth.  This component will assist the Government in 
implementing the simplified taxation regime for micro and small businesses and in reducing the cost of 
starting-up a business  through a one-stop shop approach. 
 
The informal sector has played an important role in employment generation in Kenya.  However, the 
transition from informal to formal is critical both for the enterprise (for increased access to markets, 
financial services, contracts, contract enforcement, security, and protection from the rent-seeking 
behavior of control agencies) and enterprise growth, as well as for the Government (through increased tax 
revenue and environmental/safety compliance).  A prohibitive business environment are among the main 
reasons why firms prefer to operate informally
.
This component will use an integrated approach for addressing the above-mentioned issues.  The primary 
objective is to enable prospective entrepreneurs to comply with business start-up regulations and tax 
liabilities in a single interface with government institutions.  The introduction of such a system will 
combine the current partial legalization (e.g. single business permit) with the other necessary legal 
obligations (e.g. receiving PIN, trade license, business name registration) and tax liability.  Second, the 
component will support the design and the implementation, subject to the necessary (i.e, parliamentary) 
approval, of a simplified taxation system for micro and small businesses. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
22 
 Total 
22 
 
6. Implementation 
The 
ERS 
calls for redefining the role of the state as a facilitator for private sector growth and investment.  
The strategy entails strengthening the policy and regulatory functions of the state and transferring 
productive and service delivery activities to the private sector.  The project implementation arrangements 
Page  9
will adhere to this strategy, as well as build upon the lessons of project implementation from other similar 
private sector development projects throughout Sub-Saharan Africa and other regions.  The overriding 
principle guiding the institutional and implementation arrangements 
is the government’s delegation of 
maximum feasible operational responsibility to the private sector in managing implementation.  The 
government’s role will focus on facilitation, consultation, policy-making, and evaluation.   
 
The project will be overseen by a Steering Committee consisting of approximately 6 to 9 members, half 
of which will be from the private sector, with core Ministries represented at the Director level.  It will be 
supported on the government side by a small Project Secretariat within the Ministry of Trade and Industry 
(MoTI) that will provide policy advice and be responsible for evaluation of project progress and provide 
information to the Steering Committee.  Project management will be delegated to a private Project 
Management Contractor (PMC), responsible for annual work programming, financial management, 
procurement, public relations, monitoring,  and reporting.  Some of the subcomponents will be contracted 
out to technical partners.  The PMC will provide quantitative oversight of contracts for implementing 
subcomponents, while the Project Secretariat will focus on qualitative aspects regarding achievement of 
results consistent with project objectives.  
 
The Steering Committee will establish a Technical Task Force to provide guidance on the Business 
Environment and Labor Skills components – especially since it will be critical to involve additional 
Ministries to provide guidance, monitor the component implementation process, review and approve 
reports, and advise the Steering Committee on issues related to the policy and legislation changes.   
 
7. Sustainability 
This project supports the ERS framework for micro, small, and medium enterprise development.  Thus a 
high degree of stakeholder commitment is expected in the implementation of project activities.  This is 
particularly important in the area of business environment, in that a participatory process must be 
established to ensure continued consultation and pressure from the private sector on government 
authorities to implement and maintain the expected reforms. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
The project has been designed drawing on the World Bank Group’s experience in Sub-Saharan Africa and 
other regions, and has benefited from the inputs of various World Bank Group networks and global 
products groups, including FPSI network, IFC Global Financial Markets and IFC Africa Region, the SME 
Department, Africa Project Development Facility, Africa Region Rural Development units, FIAS, and 
Investment Climate Unit.  The project was also prepared in consultation and with contributions from the 
PSD Donor Technical working group in Kenya.    
 
In addition, a variety of economic and sector work influenced the design during project preparation 
including several Government studies (Economic Recovery Strategy, Investment Program, Micro and 
Small Enterprise Sessional Paper) and World Bank studies (Value Chain Analysis of four sub-sectors, 
Investment Climate Assessment, draft FIAS Administrative Barriers results, Financial Sector Assessment 
Program, Survey of Management Education in Africa, and the Kenya MSETTP World Bank project 
completion report), as well as other donor-funded studies and evaluation reports.  
 
This project falls under the joint IDA/IFC Program for Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprise 
Development, which is intended to expand on successful approaches already under way in the Bank 
Group’s work in Africa and will provide innovative solutions to chronic difficulties in small enterprise 
work in Africa.
12
 
12
 Reference to World Bank Group, “Program Framework Document for Joint IDA/IFC MSME Program for Africa”, for the 
discussion of the Bank’s history of lending to MSMEs and of associated chronic difficulties. 
Page  10
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Category C 
–
Not required 
 
10. Contact point 
Contact: Vyjayanti Desai 
Title: Private Sector Development Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-8076 
Email: vdesai@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
