Document of
The World Bank                    rL               f~'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3888-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
September 1, 1982
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agricultural Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =            Z$ 0.69
Z$ 1           =            US$1.45
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Hectare (ha)            =    2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer (km)          =    0.624 Miles
1 Sq. Kilometer (km2)    =    0.386 Sq. Miles = 100 ha
1 Kilogram (kg)           =    2.2046 Pounds
1 Metric ton (ton)        =    1,000 kg = 2,204.6 Pounds
1 Liter                   =    1.057 TJS Quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       =      Agricultural Finance Corporation
AGRITEX   =     Department of Agricultural Technical and
Extension Services
AMA       =     Agricultural Marketing Authority
APA       =     African Purchase Area
CA        =     Communal Areas (formerly TTLs)
CMB             Cotton Marketing Board
CONEX     =      Department of Conservation and Extension
(now part of Agritex)
CSC       =     Cold Storage Commission
DEVAG     =     Department of Agricultural Development
(now part of Agritex)
DMB       =     Dairy Marketing Board
IFAD      =     International Fund for Agricultural Development
GOZ             Government of Zimbabwe
MLRD      =     Ministry of Lands Resettlement and Rural Develop-
ment
MOA       =     Ministry of Agriculture
ODA       =     Overseas Development Administration (UK)
SFCS      =     Small Farm Credit Scheme
TTL       =     Tribal Trust Land (now referred to as Communal
Areas)
USAID     =     US Agency for International Development
FISCAL
GOZ Fiscal Year   July 1 - June 30
AFC Fiscal Year April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND .....................................                   1
A.  The Agricultural Sector ....................                  1
B.  The Financial Sector  .......................                 4
Environment ....................                             4
Financial Institutions  ...............                      5
Agricultural Credit  ..... ...........                       7
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION  ....             .......     8
A.  Role        ................................                  8
B.  Commercial Farm Lending ....................                  9
C.  Small Farm Lending  .....           ....................     10
D.  Organization  .............      ..      ................    12
E.  Staffing .................            ..................     13
F.  Policy Statement  ........... ..           ..............    14
G.  Appraisal of AFC  ........... ..           ..............    14
III.    SUPPORTING SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE  ....            .....    15
A.  Extension .................            .................     15
B.  Research  .................           ..................     16
C.  Roads  ...................          ...................     16
D.  Transport  .................           .................     17
E.  Marketing Boards  .            ..........................    17
F.  Cooperatives  .............      ..     ................    17
IV.    THE PROJECT  ....................................                18
A.   General Description  ........................               18
B.  Detailed Features  ..........................               19
Seasonal Credit  ............      ..     ..............   19
Medium-Term Credit  .......... ..          .............    21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Zimbabwe in September 1981. The mission was
composed of Messrs. R. Nelson, A. Malik, J. Greenfield
(Bank-EAPSA) and D. Argyle (Bank-AGR).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ifi -
Page No.
Facilities  for AFC  .......               ...................    21
Computer Consultants  & Computer  Equipment    ...    22
Technical  Assistance  ......                ..................    23
Monitoring  and Evaluation  .....                  ..............    23
C.   Project  Costs  .........................                             25
D.   Financing  .........              ..........................          25
E.   Procurement  ........               .........................         26
F.   Disbursements  .......               ........................         27
G.   Audit  and Accounts  ..........................    28
V.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ..........................    29
A.   Organization  and Management  .....                   ............    29
B.   Lending  Policies  and  Procedures  ....                 .........    29
C.   Interest Rates ...............................    30
D.   Financial  Structure ..........................    30
E.   Monitoring  and Evaluation  ...................    33
VI.   AGRICULTURAL  PRODUCTION  .........................    33
A.   Project  Areas  ...............................    33
B.   Farm  Systems  in  the Project  Area  ....                ........    34
C.   Technical  Packages  and Production  Impact  ....                     36
D.   Marketing  and  Prices  ........................    37
VII.   JUSTIFICATION  ...................................    38
A.   General  .....................................    38
B.   Benefit  Analysis  ............................    39
C.   Beneficiaries  ...............................    40
D.   Risks ........................................    41
E.   Environmental  Impact  ........................    42
VIII.   ASSURANCES  AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                      ..............    42



- iii -
Annexes, Tables, Charts, Maps                                                Page No.
ANNEX I   AFC Policy Statement ..............................          45
ANNEX 2   Monitoring and Evaluation Checklist ....        ...........  50
ANNEX 3   Proposed Crop Packages ............................          54
ANNEX 4   Documents Available in Project File ....        ...........  57
Table Al  AFC Balance Sheet 1977-81 .........................          58
Table A2  AFC Income and Expenditure Statements 1977-81 .....          59
Table A3  Disbursement Table ................................          60
Table A4  Government Cash Flow ..............................          61
Table A5  AFC Subsidy Requirements ..........................          62
Table BI  Hectare Budget Maize (NR II) ......................    63
Table B2  Hectare Budget Maize (NR III) .....................          64
Table B3  Hectare Budget Cotton (NR II) .....................          65
Table B4  Hectare Budget Cotton (NR III) ....................    66
Table B5  Hectare Budget Oriental Tobacco ....         ...............  67
Table B6  Whole Farm Budget (NR II)  ........................          68
Table B7  Whole Farm Budget (NR III) ........................          69
Table B8  Maize Export Parity Calculation ....         ...............  70
Table C1  Project Costs Summary .............................          71
Table C2  Project Costs Seasonal Credit ............                   72
Table C3  Project Costs Medium-Term Credit .........                   73
Table C4  Project Costs Facilities and Technical
Assistance  .......................................         74
Table C4A Project Costs Staff Training and Technical
Assistance  .......................................         75
Table C5  Project Costs Office Buildings and Staff Houses ...          76
Table C6  Project Costs Vehicles ............................          77
Table C7  Project Costs Monitoring and Evaluation ....       .......    78
Organization Charts:
Chart 1   AFC
Chart 2   SFCS
Chart 3   SFCS East Area
Chart 4   SFCS West Area
Chart 5   Implementation Schedule
Maps:
IBRD Map 16142 Natural Regions
IBRD Map 16141 Land Tenure and Project Areas






ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
Introduction
1.01      Zimbabwe occupies a land area of approximately 39 million ha and
has a population of 7.2 million people, growing at an average rate of 3.6%
per annum. There are four main topographic areas: (i) the highveld, a
plateau at an altitude of about 1,300 m running through the center of the
country from southwest to north east, (ii) the middleveld, at about 900 m,
extending on either side of the highveld, (iii) the lowveld, at about
500 m, located in the south east and north west corners of the country; and
(iv) a high altitude ridge running along the eastern border with
Mozambique.
1.02      Superimposed on this physical pattern is a rainfall pattern which
is not entirely related to altitude, and which falls off from north to
south, from about 1,000 mm in the north to about 300 mm in the south.
Rainfall is monomodal, from about October to March, sometimes with a
mid-season dry spell about January. The most influential climatic
characteristic for agriculture is the combination of a warm, wet, summer,
and a cold, dry, winter. Barely one third of the country is suitable for
rainfed cropping; the drier areas are suited only to ranching. Map 1 gives
the Natural Regions defined by the Ministry of Agriculture for crop
production purposes.
Structure
1.03      There are three sub-sectors within the agricultural sector, the
second two include the Project target farmers:
a. 5,800 commercial European farmers on 15 m ha under
freehold title;
b. 8,500 African farmers on 1.5 m ha in the African
Purchase Areas (APAs) under tenancy or freehold titles; and
c. 660,000 farm families on 16 m ha in the Communal Areas
(former Tribal Trust Land (TTL) areas) with traditional
usufruct rights allocated by the hereditary chiefs;
women are responsible for 70% of the farm work, and are
often effectively heads of household since male members are
frequently away in urban areas.
Performance
1.04      Agriculture contributed an estimated 18 percent of GDP in 1981.
Total value of agricultural production was US$1,070 million (Z$738 million)



- 2 -
Agricultural exports were valued at US$605 million (Z$420 million) and
constituted 47 percent of total exports.   Agriculture, therefore, plays a
major role in foreign exchange earning, and probably has the potential to
increase this in real terms.
1.05      Most agricultural production comes from the commercial farms,
only 20% of total agricultural production comes from the Communal Area
sub-sector, and very little or this finds its way to official markets or to
exports, indeed, most of CA's have not recently been self-sufficient in
food.
1.06    , Agriculture is the major employment sector, about 75% of the
country's population are dependent on agriculture for their income, and it
provides about 35% of all formal employment opportunities. Furthermore,
approximately 50% of manufacturing ndustry is dependent to some degree on
agricultural production.
Communal Areas
1.07      The Communal Areas (CA's) are the main target of the Small Farm
Credit Scheme (SFCS). The majority of the CA's, from which approximately
57% of the total population derive their livelihood, are located in Natural
Regions III and IV where the agricultural potential is limited. Initially,
the Project would concentrate the majority of its support on the more
competent farmers in the better areas, mainly Natural Regions II and III
which have greater production potential.
1.08      Infrastructure such as input delivery systems, storage, marketing
facilities, roads, and rail transport in Zimbabwe, have been designed
primarily for the large commercial farmer. Extension of these facilities
on a substantial scale is necessary to support farmers in Communal Areas.
Steps are now being taken to extend the infrastructure and input delivery
systems to these areas.
1.09      Agricultural research has also been aimed mainly at the
commercial farmer. More adaptive research and development (R&D will have
to be carried out to design location-specific input packages for the small
farmer. Extension has also been somewhat biased towards the Commercial
Master Farmer 1/ and needs some reorientation. Revised input packages for
CA farmers covered by the Project have been drawn up (see Annex 3).
1.10      As a result of the good rains and increased post-Independence
stability, Communal Area crop production was well above average in 1980/81,
but the resulting farmer enthusiasm has been damapened by transport
bottlenecks. Much of the problem can be traced back to the national
railways constraint, but poor roads, limited foreign exchange for transport
vehicles and spares, and inadequate marketing board intake capacity have
contributed.
1/ A farmer who is awarded a certificate in recognition of his completing
a training course in agriculture and of adopting certain recommended
practices.



-3-
African Purchase Areas
1.11      The farmers on medium-sized farms in the Purchase Areas have not
so far achieved either the high levels of productivity or the high levels
of employment obtained by the commercial sector. Nevertheless, they are a
source of some expertise in commercial farming, which may be important for
the future of the productive core of the commercial farm sector which
Government would foster alongside the substantial settlement programs
proposed. Assistance to these farms through credit is therefore an
important part of Government strategy.
Settlement
1.12      Zimbabwe consistently produces a food surplus, but the
productivity comes predominantly from the European commercial farmers. The
Government's dilemma is how to redistribute incomes without in the process
losing this productivity. An opportunity to do this arises from the fact
that the high level of output in the commercial sector comes from a quite
small productive core consisting of the irrigated estates and the more
efficient maize/tobacco farmers, leaving a substantial amount of
underutilised and abandoned land. Government have now embarked on a
settlement program. Progress is slow, but the long-term objectives are
quite ambitious. The program involves taking the landless, or those with
insufficient land, out of the Communal Areas and giving them plots which
provide for an income of about Z$ 500 (US$725). Farm sizes would range
from about 25 hectares to 200 hectares, giving about 5 hectares of arable,
plus grazing for between 4 and 20 livestock units depending on the zone.
Communal cultivation would be encouraged, but would not be insisted on by
Government. However, the reality is that settlement, even on a massive
scale and even with high levels of industrial growth, would barely keep up
with population growth, let alone make in-roads into the problem of the
over-cultivated Communal Areas. Much of this problem must therefore be
tackled in situ. Intensification is possible in the better rainfall areas,
and credit will be part of that strategy, but this will need to be
supported by strong adaptive research, especially in the drier areas,
together with improved marketing services and transport.
Government Strategy
1.13      Government's strategy in agriculture aims at growth with equity
and includes a wide range of objectives, perhaps not all mutually
consistent: fair distribution of land ownership, reduced poverty in rural
areas, increased productivity and employment, maintenance of food
self-sufficiency, an increased role for agriculture as a foreign exchange
earner and a supplier of inputs to industry, integration of the commercial
and small farm sub-sectors, land conservation, regional balance in
development, and the development of human resources.
1.14      Credit is given high priority as a means of providing support for
the small farmer to increase productivity.



-4-
Previous Bank Projects
1.15      No Bank funded agricultural projects have been undertaken in
Zimbabwe to date, however, an outline of some of the major issues in the
agricultural sector is contained in the Bank's Zimbabwe Country Economic
Memorandum of April 20, 1981 (Report No. 3234 b -ZIM). Support for
transport and manufacturing has been provided under the $42 m Transport
Rehabilitation Imports Program Loan of June 22, 1981 (Ln. 1994), and the
$65 m Manufacturing Rehabilitation Imports Program Loan and Credit (Ln.
1959 and Cr. 1120). The former will have an indirect impact on the
transport constraints in the rural areas affecting this credit Project.
B. The Financial Sector
Environment
1.16      Real growth in Zimbabwe between 1965 and 1974 was excellent,
averaging 7 percent per year and far exceeding population growth.
Thereafter, foreign exchange shortages, call-up of personnel for service in
the army, two droughts, lower investment and greater government consumption
for defense all contributed to declines in economic activity. Between 1974
and 1979 GDP in real terms declined by 2.6 percent per year to Z$2,627
million in 1979. The economic recovery which started in 1978 has been
strongly assisted by the lifting of economic sanctions and the advent of
independence. Preliminary figures indicate that real growth in gross
domestic product for 1980 may reach double figure. Maintaining the
estimated high growth rate of 1980 during 1981 could be hampered by the
lack of foreign exchange, transport facilities and skilled manpower. There
has been a significant expansion of exports in 1980 which was accompanied
by a considerable increase in import allocations. Imports have expanded by
almost 50 percent which has resulted in a deterioration in the balance of
payments and a fall in the foreign exchange reserves, despite the sharp
rise in the value of exports.
1.17      Performance of agriculture in 1980 was better than expected with
sales of crops and livestock rising by 31 percent to Z$488 million. Of
this total crops accounted for $372 and livestock $116 million. The sharp
increase in crop sales was attributable to maize (60% increase), groundnuts
(43%), cotton (11%), coffee (34%) and soya beans (16%), while sales of
wheat and sorghum were marginally lower. Although figures are not yet
available production increased sharply in 1981 over 1980.
1.18      During 1980 money supply expanded by 34 percent largely as a
result of Central Government borrowing from the monetary banking sector, to
finance the growing budget deficit. With Government borrowing from the
monetary banking sector likely to remain high, and with increased private
sector borrowing taking place, largely as a result of the higher
crop-financing requirements there is little doubt that the money supply
would continue to expand during 1981. To combat the excessive money supply
and the resultant high inflation (currently estimated at 19%) the Central
Bank earlier last year (February 1981) raised the Bank Rate from 4.5
percent to 6 percent and the prime commercial lending rate from 7.5 percent
to 9 percent. Moreover, the requirement of statutory reserve balances held
by the commercial banks, accepting houses and finance houses with the



- 5 -
Reserve Bank was increased from 6 percent to 8 percent in the case of
demand deposits and from 3 percent to 4 percent in respect of their time
deposits from May 1981. Earlier (1979) in anticipation of excessive credit
situation developing after the lifting of sanctions, the Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe increased the prescribed liquid asset ratios from 30 percent to 35
percent for commercial banks and from 25 percent to 30 percent for merchant
banks (Reserve Bank rules now require that commercial banks maintain 40
percent in liquid assets). In addition, financial institutions have been
asked not to provide credit for speculative and non-productive purposes.
Recently (September 1981) the Bank Rate was increased to 9 percent and the
Reserve Bank imposed restrictions on hire-purchase credit for consumer
goods. Table 1 on page 6 shows principal interest rates currently being
applied (December 1981).
1.19      In the late 60's and 70's, Zimbabwe's financial and banking
system was relatively isolated from international financial influences and
generally experienced a situation of depressed demand for domestic credit.
As a result, the banking system until recently has been extremely liquid
and interest rates have generally remained low, usually at or near their
levels at the time of Unilateral Declaration of Independence (UDI) in 1965
reflecting the fact that Zimbabwe's banks bave been subject to the Reserve
Bank's control. Although the Reserve Bank still maintains its traditional
control over interest rates, during 1981 Zimbabwe has moved toward a more
realistic interest rate structure. Currently, the prime commercial lending
rate, which for a number of years was fixed at 7.5 percent fluctuates
between 13 percent and 14 percent.
Financial Institutions
1.20      Zimbabwe has a highly developed and regulated financial sector
consisting of the central bank (Reserve Bank), commercial banks, merchant
banks, finance houses, discount and acceptance houses, buildings societies,
post office savings bank and stock exchange.
1.21      The Central Bank formulates and regulates the monetary and credit
policies. It oversees operations of commercial banks and other financial
institutions, acts as Governments' and bankers' bank by accepting their
deposits and provides inter-bank clearing facilities. It is responsible
for the administration of an extensive set of foreign exchange regulations.
All foreign exchange transactions must have the approval of the Reserve
Bank and it influences the operations of the financial institutions through
its directives on interest rates, liquidity and reserve requirements and
sectors to be given priority in lending.
1.22      The Commercial Banks.  There are five commercial banks in the
country, Standard Bank, Barclays Bank, Grindlays Bank, Zimbank (formerly
Rhobank) and the recently opened Bank of Credit and Commerce. Together
these banks, all with outside origins, have over one hundred branches and
as of the end of 1980 had assets of about Z$990 million. Most of these
banks, in addition to their commercial banking activities, provide
specialized financial services through their affiliated institutions. But
their lending in agriculture is geared entirely to the commercial sector.



- 6 -
Table 1 - Principal Interest Rates, 1977-1981 (% p.a.)
December 31          June October
1977  1978  1979  1980   1981   1981
Bank Rate                                       4.50  4.50  4.50  4.50   6.00   9.00
Treasury Bills                                  3.54  3.62  3.57  3.30   5.02   8.02
Central Government Stock
3 years                                   4.85  4.85  4.85  4.85   6.40   7.00
25 years                                  6.50  3.75  8.75  8.75  11.00  11.00
Deposit Rates:
Post Office Savings Bank (tax free):
Savings Accounts                 3.25  3.25  3.25  3.25   4.25   7.50
Fixed:  12 Months                4.50  4.50  4.50  4.50   5.50   8.50
Savings Deposits                          3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00   4.00   7.00
Fixed:  3 and Under 6 Months              3.25  3.25  3.25  3.25   4.25   8.25
9 and Under 12 Months            3.75  3.75  3.75  3.75   4.75   8.50
15 and Under 18 Months            4.50  4.50  4.50  4.50   5.75   8.75
24 and Under 36 Months            5.00  5.00  5.00  5.00   6.25   9.25
36 Months                         5.25  5.25  5.25  5.25   6.75   9.75
Building Societies:
Savings Accounts                          3.50  3.50  3.50  3.50   4.50   7.75
Lending Rates:
Commercial Banks Overdraft (Minimum)  7.50  7.50  7.50  7.50   9.00  13.00
Building Societies:
Houses under $12,000              7.25  7.25  7.25  7.25   8.75  12.50
Commercial, Industrial and Flats          8.50  8.50  8.50  8.50  10.25  14.75
Agricultural Finance Corporation
Long-term                        6.50  6.50  7.50  7.50   9.50  12.00
Short-term                       7.00  7.00  8.00  8.00   9.00  12.00
1.23       Other Financial Institutions of importance are the Agricultural
Finance Corportion with which this Project is concerned, three building
societies, four merchant banks, the Post Office Savings Bank, five finance
houses and two discount houses. Together with the commercial banks, these
institutions provide savers with a -wide range of savings facilities, and
bankers and businessmen with a money market, commercial financing,
acceptance credits, and medium-term investment loans.  They also provide



consumers with hire purchase and mortgage facilities. Other financial
operations in the country include an Export Credit Insurance Corporation,
the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange and a capital market in which insurance
companies, trust companies and pension and provident funds are important
traders.
1.24      The financial system also contains four development corporations.
Of these two are private and the remaining are mainly owned by the
Government. The Industrial Development Corporation, founded in 1963 is the
largest and provides technical and longer term financial assistance for
establishment of industrial ventures. The Development Finance Company, was
established in 1979 to help small-scale, mainly African enterprises. In
addition to the formal institutions, there are several hundred private
savings clubs which cater to the African rural population (see paragraph
1.28).
Agricultural Credit
1.25      Agricultural credit in Zimbabwe has been channelled through a
variety of institutions. Seasonal loans, hire purchase and lease hire
facilities are extended to farmers by the commercial banks and other
financial institutions. Until recently, however, these facilities have
been restricted almost entirely to the large-scale commercial producers and
financing of the small-scale sector has been left to Government and certain
private organizations.
1.26      Financing of small-scale farmers' credit needs was initiated by
Government sponsored advances to irrigation plot holders in the 1930's and
was extended to dryland producers in the commercial lands in 1956. Based
on the experience gained on the effective use of credit and satisfactory
loan repayments, Government increased the provision for loans to
small-scale producers through the establishment of the Agricultural Loan
Fund (ALF) in 1964. Government's efforts were supplemented by the African
Loan and Development Company Limited (ALDCL), a private agency which was
established in 1961 to extend credit to both African businessmen and
small-scale farmers. Subsequently, ALDCL was restructured into a
non-profitmaking Trust and its activities thereafter were confined to
farmers in African Purchase Lands. As part of the Governments' plans to
centralize agricultural credit within Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) which was established in 1971, the Trust was absorbed by AFC in
1978. Since AFC is central to the project it is considered in more detail
in the following chapter.
1.27      To service the Communal Area farmers several private including
religious organizations over the years have started their own loan and
development schemes. Registered Co-operative Societies first formed in
1956, and which are used by the Government as a channel for the
distribution of inputs, expanded rapidly.  To exploit the market potential,
suppliers and manufacturers (particularly fertilizer companies) also
started to extend credit to the small-scale farming clients. In almost all
cases they suffered heavy losses, primarily due to lack of management and
this led to severe curtailment or abandonment of credit facilities.  As a
result of their experience, the suppliers have become cautious. Amongst
the private organizations, Silveira House (a Catholic Association on the



- 8 -
outskirts of Harare) which started a 'package deal' development program in
1968 to familiarize farmers with the benefits of agricultural input
materials is still very active in channelling loans to Communal Area
farmers around Salisbury area. It provides farmers awareness and
motivation courses, extension services as well as loans to groups of
farmers to cultivate half hectare plots.  After three or four years of
credit service the groups are expected to be self-sufficient in financial
terms and are weaned from the credit fund, although they can continue to
use the extension and input supply services provided by Silveira House.
Savings Clubs
1.28      Over a period of 15 or more years, savings clubs have been a
feature of the Zimbabwe smallholder farm scene. Over the last eighteen
months, following a return to peace, their numbers have increased sharply.
These clubs are informal and strictly voluntary groups ranging typically
from about 10 to 40 persons (including many women) who "save" through the
club. The club has a small committee headed by a chairman and includes a
secretary/treasurer or treasurer who is responsible for the transactions.
Members normally agree, as a form of self-discipline, to provide a fixed
sum each month earmarked for a specific purpose - this is normally the
purchase of fertilizer. The treasurer keeps the records and deposits the
funds in a local bank or other secure place. At the appropriate time funds
are withdrawn and the item purchased. A typical club might buy, say, 100
bags of fertilizer from its member's deposits and arrange for transport,
thus facilitating delivery. All work is voluntary. The clubs have
grown very rapidly in numbers and have required little outside help apart
from some advice by interested private bodies, e.g., Catholic missions and
extension services and the provision of "passbooks" and "stamps" by private
donations to assist the "treasurer" and members in keeping track of
deposits.
1.29      There have been a few suggestions to register the clubs as
cooperatives, but as their success is based on informal self-help
registration is more likely to cause their demise. Given the adverse
conditions in recent years the clubs have been very successful in
mobilizing savings and improving production and every effort should be made
to encourage their growth through general publicity and aid of the present
type. Undoubtedly, some will develop into AFC credit groups or overlap
with AFC groups, but this should be a voluntary graduation otherwise it
will not be successful. Although not the only example of self help in
Africa, it is certainly one of the best.
1.30      The clubs do not normally operate as Savings and Loan
Associations although occasional provision of credit to members occurs in
some cases. Government supported credit is, therefore, not likely to
compete directly with the activities of these clubs.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
A. Role
2.01      Government's policy is to promote growth with equity.  Pursuance
of this policy in agriculture would include the reform and expansion of



- 9 -
services such as agricultural research, extension, credit and marketing.
Agricultural credit expansion would be pursued through the Agricultural
Finance Corporation. The objectives of the Corporation are to promote
agriculture in Zimbabwe by making available credit to individuals, groups,
cooperatives and societies for agricultural inputs, and for the development
of agriculture and marketing services. The institution is expected to
break-even taking one year with another.
2.02      The Corporation provides credit to both large scale commercial
farmers and small farmers but it is anticipated that it would play an
increasing role in small farm lending.  Credit through AFC is seen by
Government as a way of providing small farmers with the means to rapidly
increase their production following the poor infrastructural services and
disruptive hostilities prior to Independence.
B. Commercial Farm Lending
2.03      Until recently AFC's primary role has been in the provision of
credit to some 3,000 (over 50% of the total) large-scale commercial
farmers.  Although as a general policy, AFC can lend to all qualified
persons or groups of persons; hitherto its lending has been confined to
commercial farmers because of the general bias toward European farmers, the
availability of limited funds from Government sources and the requirement
in terms of its controlling legistlation, that AFC should conduct its
business in a manner to ensure that its income, taking one year with
another, would be sufficient to meet its normal operating expenditure
including bad debts.
2.04      Long-term loans (up to 30 years) are granted for capital costs
e.g., purchase of farms, development and improvement of land and water
resources, the erection of buildings and other permanent improvements and
the purchase of livestock for breeding purposes. In approving loan
applications, consideration is given to the viability of proposed
investment in relation to scale of operations, the ability of the farmer to
successfully implement the investment program and the security offered by
the borrower. The minimum contribution (in cash or fixed and moveable
assets) by the borrowers vary depending on the credit worthiness of the
borrower, the nature of investment and the type and value of security
offered. Loans are secured by borrowers executing mortgage bonds which are
redeemable by equal installments. In addition, if less than 65 years of
age, all borrowers are required to participate in AFC's mortgate insurance
scheme which provides for repayment of the capital debt up to Z$150,000 in
the event of the borrower's death.
2.05      Medium-term loans of up to five years are allowed for purchase of
machinery, implements, irrigation equipment and livestock. Loans are
approved on the basis of the applicant's need for the items and his
capacity to repay the loan. Medium-term loans are repayable on the same
basis and subject to the same terms and conditions as long-term loans
except that fixed security is not an essential prerequisite for these loans
as they may be granted on a security of a notarial bond over moveables and
the reservation of ownership by AFC of the items financed.



- 10 -
2.06      Short-term loans are granted for the purchase of seasonal inputs,
including fertilizer and fuel, payment of labour costs, and other crop
production expenses, as well as purchase of cattle. These loans are
repayable within a period of up to 2 years by means of high priority stop
orders on crops, produce or stock sales. A stop order constitutes a
cession of the proceeds of the sales of crops and livestock and is
addressed to the statutory marketing board, tobacco auction floor, or other
agency handling the marketing.
2.07      In the commercial sector loans are also given to farmers under
the Tenant Farming Scheme where the applicants can satisfy AFC that they
have the necessary experience and ability and are able to make a
contribution to the proposed enterprise of not less than 10 percent of the
total capital required. Part of the borrowers contribution may be in the
form of acceptable unencumbered farming equipment and/or livestock. Tenant
farmers are required to maintain proper financial records and to submit to
AFC a farming program. Participants in the scheme are precluded from
obtaining credit from other sources without AFC's consent. The final lease
agreement must be approved by AFC and must be for a minimum period of three
years.
2.08      In addition to applicable interest a loan application processing
fee of Z$2 per Z$1,000 of loan amount, with a minimum of Z$5 per loan
application is charged by AFC. In addition legal fees, where appropriate,
are charged in respect of execution of mortgages and notarial bonds.
2.09      Until March 31, 1979, AFC provided special low interest
development loans for water development and irrigation; fencing, bush
clearing and farm buildings, but these have been discontinued and
applicants must now obtain their requirements through the normal long- or
medium-term loans available.
C. Small Farm Lending
2.10       Small-scale farmers are considered to be those residing in the
Communal Areas, on the new settlement schemes or in the African Purchase
Areas. Traditionally, the small farmer has had little or no access to
credit to finance his farming needs. The Small Farm Credit Scheme (SFCS)
was, therefore, introduced in 1978 with the publication of Rhodesian
Government Notice No. 284 of 1978 and was designed initially to allow AFC
to assist Purchase Area Farmers with seasonal finance and loans to develop
and improve the profitability of their farms. In view of the higher risks
generally associated with small farm credit and the high administrative
costs involved in small loans to widely dispersed farmers, it was
recognized that AFC in implementing this scheme would not be able to keep
risks at an acceptable level and meet the requirement of its controlling
legislation, i.e., to operate on a 'no loss' basis. The Government,
therefore, underwrote this scheme and subsidized AFC to the extent required
to keep it in a 'no gain, no loss' position.
2.11      The loan facilities available to small farmers are generally the
same as those described earlier for commercial farmers and the terms and
conditions including interests rates are the same as for the corresponding
loans to commercial farmers.



- 11 -
2.12       In considering loan application under the SFCS, AFC has to be
satisfied that the applicant:
i)   is, or will become, a full-time farmer on his own account
and will reside and manage the farm in respect of which he
requires assistance. His sole or principal means of living
must be derived from farming;
ii)   has the ability, and his farm the productive capacity, to
service any loan made to him under the Scheme;
iii)   has adequate farming experience and proven ability in the
type of farming or ranching he wishes to carry out; and
iv)   is registered with the Grain or Cotton Marketing Board or
with a Co-operative Society, or with a Tobacco Floor.
2.13      In July 1979, Government accepted a proposal by AFC that in
addition to APA's, it become involved in assistance to farmers in the
Communal Areas and finance a limited number of pilot schemes. In the
implementation of this program AFC was assisted by the extension staff of
the schemes and 2,846 loans, amounting to Z$478,000 were made available to
Communal Area farmers for crop inputs for the 1979/80 season. The program
was expanded in 1980/81 with loans amounting to Z$4.8 million given to
almost 18,000 borrowers. For 1981/82, a total amount of Z$11 million was
expected to be lent to about 33,000 farmers. Similarly, lending to farmers
in APA's has also been expanding from 1,545 loans in 1979/80 to 3,930 in
1981/82.
2.14      To process applications AFC field staff arrange meetings with
farmers at which lending policies and procedures are explained. Farmers
are assisted in completing relatively simple application forms, loan
agreements and stop order forms which are used for recovery of loans.
Field staff visit farms to complete and collect application forms.
Seasonal crop loans are considered on a package basis and the repayment
capacity of a borrower is considered by appraising the productive capacity
of his holding. Where the amount applied for is relatively large or
problems exist, a full appraisal of the applicant's financial position,
past seasons farming results and forthcoming season's requirements,
prospects and viability is carried out by a technical Field Officer trained
in the more specialized field. The Small Farm Credit Scheme is operated
through a system of area and district offices where Credit Officers are
stationed (see Charts 2, 3 and 4). In addition to Credit Officers, the AFC
employs Credit Assistants who live and work in the Communal Areas. Field
Staff, in addition to advising farmers on how to obtain loans, have a
special responsibility for supervising the proper use of these loans. In
doing this work, the AFC staff work alongside the extension staff of
Agritex (formerly Department of Agricultural Development) and with other
rural development agencies.
2.15      Mortgage bonds and Notes of Hand are taken as security for the
larger long-term loans, normally involving only APA farmers, while Notarial
General Covering Bonds (chattel mortgages) and reservation of ownership are
made available in the form of crop inputs distributed by suppliers.



- 12 -
Although delays have occurred in finalizing loans, everything possible is
done to ensure that inputs are delivered at the time they are needed. Stop
orders (crop liens) are normally used for the recovery of term and seasonal
credit. Under special circumstances other methods of repayment may be
negotiated. The Senior Manager of the Small Farm Credit Scheme is
authorized to grant loans of up to Z$10,000 including existing indebtedness
to any one farmer with powers of substitution to the Sub-Manager. Any
cases of doubt or applications involving sums in excess of this limit are
considered by a Loans Committee.  In considering applications every effort
is made to mobilize for his own venture the savings or surpluses of
farmers. AFC is able to exercise considerable flexibility in dealing with
the repayment of arrears and in lending criteria when unexpected natural
hazards, such as drought, flood or disease occur.
2.16      The AFC encourages small farmers who require loans for seasonal
inputs to form themselves into groups of between 20 and 30 members. Each
group is required to elect a committee, appoint a chairman and choose a
name to identify itself. The committee has a special responsibility for
directing the activities of the loan group and, if necessary, making
decisions on its behalf. The formation of loan groups results in:
(i) better administration of loans,
(ii) cost savings,
(iii) clearer identification,
(iv) better communications, and
(v) communal effort, control and discipline.
2.17      Each loan group is expected to present itself at pre-arranged
meetings where individual members submit their loan applications.  Failure
to join a group may result in difficulties in having an application for a
small loan approved. When the loans are granted, the Committee chairman is
given details of each member's loan by the AFC field staff and he is
expected to pass this information on to each group member. Seasonal inputs
are ordered through a Co-operative Union. When the inputs become available
the Chairman is advised accordingly and it is his responsibility to ensure
that each member receives the correct items and that the appropriate Union
is advised in case of an incorrect delivery. The AFC staff is available to
assist in the distribution of inputs. It is the committee's responsibility
to ensure that group members use their loans for the purpose they were
granted and report to the AFC staff on the levels of crop production
achieved by the group. Group members are being encouraged to combine their
marketing activities and the Committee is expected to ensure proper
marketing of crops by each member in order to repay the loans.
2.18      It is the aim that as the groups become better organized only one
loan application for the whole group would be submitted to the AFC and
joint and several liability would be adopted. In such an eventuality the
Committee would be responsible for maintaining records of members'
liability to AFC and ensuring that each member repays the loan in full when
due.
D. Organization
2.19      The overall responsibility for AFC is entrusted to an
Agricultural Finance Board. The Board consists of not less than six
members who are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. He is also



- 13 -
responsible for designating one member as Chairman and another as
Vice-Chairman. Members hold office for periods not exceeding three years,
as may be determined by the Minister and a retiring member is eligible for
re-appointment. The Board is authorized to establish one or more
committees to facilitate better exercise of its functions.
2.20      The General Manager is the Chief Executive of the Corporation.
He is appointed by the Board with the approval of the Minister of
Agriculture. The General Manager, who is not a member of the Board, is
responsible to the Board for the management of the corporations activities.
2.21      For administrative purposes the Corporation, which has its
headquarters in Salisbury, is divided into five branches, Mashonaland East,
Mashonaland West, Matabeleland, Small Farm Credit Scheme and Recoveries,
all of which, except the last, have field offices covering the main
agricultural and ranching areas (see Charts 1-4).
2.22      At headquarters, the General Manager is assisted by two Deputy
General Managers in charge of Administration and Finance Divisions. Each
Deputy General Manager has an Assistant General Manager reporting to him.
The Deputy General Manager Administration has the overall responsibility
for Small Farm Credit Scheme and Mashonaland West Branch and the heads of
Secretarial and Administration Department, Personnel and Training
Department and the farm Inspectorate report to him. The Deputy General
Manager, Finance is the chief financial officer of the Corporation with
overall responsibility for formulating and making recommendation for
Corporation's financial policy, control of resources and forward financial
planning. The managers of Mashonaland East Branch, Matabeleland Branch and
Recoveries Branch as well as the heads of Accounts and Economics
Departments report to him. Administrative and accounting functions are,
with one exception (Matabeleland) centralized in Salisbury. (Following
very recent changes reported at negotiations the description and the
organisation chart is now somewhat out of date but this does not affect
Project design).
2.23      To assist management in its operation of lending programs, there
are a number of committees. These include the Senior Loans Committee which
consists of the senior management team and the Branch Managers. The
General Manager and Senior Loans Committee are authorized by the Board to
extend loans within the policy determined by the Board up to a limit of
Z$300,000 per client. In addition, there are three Loans Committees for
each of the three main branch areas and a Small Farm Credit Committee
responsible for major policy decisions and providing guidance in the
operation of the Small Farm Credit Scheme. The Government has established
an SFCS Advisory Committee which includes respresentatives of various
ministries to advise the Small Farm Credit Committee.
E. Staffing
2.24      AFC has a staff of over 530, about 40% of them concerned with the
commercial and support sections and 60% with the SFCS. Staff numbers have
more than doubled since the beginning of 1979 mostly reflecting the growth
of SFCS staff from about 30 to 360. The senior management of AFC is



- 14 -
experienced and capable and in general AFC has capable line staff for its
commercial lending operations. The staff of the SFCS are generally
competent but due to the substantial number of newly-recruited staff and
the very recent establishment of SFCS, many have limited experience in
banking. As at September 1981, two-thirds of the SFCS staff had been with
AFC for less than one year, compared to one-third for the commercial and
support sections of AFC. However, many of the SFCS staff, while having
limited credit experience do have considerable experience in extension as
former employees of DEVAG. While SFCS is capably managed at present, it is
very vulnerable to the loss of key staff due to its rapid growth and it
will require a substantial training input to reduce this vulnerability.
2.25      There is some concern that experienced personnel may leave AFC
either through emigration or attraction to the private sector; there
appears to be an increasing disparity between private and parastatal sector
salaries. To date AFC has lost few staff but the losses appear to be
growing. Lower and middle level management seem most likely to leave and
they may be difficult to replace.
F. Policy Statement
2.26      AFC did not until recently have a policy and has relied on the
general provisions of its act of establishment with subsequent
modifications. These were fairly broad in nature to ensure a reasonable
amount of flexibility. In view of the important changes in focus resulting
from commencement of smallholder lending, AFC has prepared and adopted a
policy statement which will act as a further guide. It provides a sound
basis for AFC's future development reflecting sound fiscal policies and a
balanced approach to the small farmer sector. Adoption of this policy
would be in the longq-term interest of both the majority of small farmers
and the instituti&r. and assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
policy would not be changed without approval of IDA.
G. Appraisal of AFC
2.27      AFC has been run as a moderately conservative finance corporation
providing credit to large-scale European farmers, usually on more generous
terms than its commercial competitors. Its policies, procedures and
controls have been well-tried and its staff are experienced. The
institution has been profitable and efficient within the confines of its
guidelines. However, the recent change of bringing in a large number of
small borrowers will be a testing time.
2.28      AFC have so far handled the transition well.  Small farm loans
have risen from zero in 1978/79 to about 33,000 in 1981/82.   In spite of
teething problems with the computer software and severe marketing problems,
repayment rates for the 80/81 season had reached 70% by November 1981 with
some prospect of significantly increasing that during the current season.
(The repayment period allowed is 18 months on seasonal credit.) The
current season has been very dry however and repayment rate projetions at
present indicate a likely achievement of only 50%, although final results
are not yet available. Some of the staff of the Small Farm Credit Scheme
came from the African Loan and Development Trust who provided credit to



- 15 -
Purchase Area farms with recoveries of the order of 90 percent, reaching as
high as 99%. Also, AFC are taking over weaned clients from a very
successful small farm credit operation involving groups run by Silveira
House, a Catholic Mission organization. Between 1971 and 1976 repayments
under this scheme were 100 percent. As the war intensified they dropped to
96 percent, 67 percent and then 43 percent in 1979, a drought year.
However, with the cessation of hostilities in 1980 repayments jumped up to
82 percent with additional repayments of 42 percent of the previous two
years outstanding debt. AFC will be strongly reliant on the Silveira House
experience as they move towards group lending for small farmers. Both ALDT
and Silveira House give AFC a sound basis on which to build.
2.29      It is considered that AFC as an institution has the potential
capacity to carry out the proposed program, but this will depend on:
(i)  AFC's freedom to lend based on suitability of borrower;
(ii) AFC remaining a viable institution with reasonable
independence;
(iii) retention and maintenance of adequate qualified staff;
(iv) expansion being geared to its capabilities; and
(v)  suitable interest rate policies.
2.30      In brief, a following of the policy statement both by AFC and
relevant Government bodies.
III. SUPPORTING SERVICES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
A. Extension
3.01      The Government's agricultural extension service was until
recently, administered through two separate departments: Department of
Conservation and Extension (CONEX), attached to the Ministry of
Agriculture, which handled conservation and extension work for the
commercial farmers, and Department of Agricultural Development (DEVAG),
located within the Ministry of Lands, Resettlement and Rural Development,
which was responsible for extension services in the Communal Areas. These
two bodies have now been amalgamated within the Ministry of Agriculture
and is known as "Agritex".
3.02      Despite the merger, which should increase the pool of staff the
number of Extension Assistants and Supervisors would have to be doubled to
effectively cover the Communal Area farmers. It has been estimated that
this would require an annual output of 170 agricultural certificate
graduates for each of the next ten years either through the establishment
of more certificate level colleges, or the expansion of existing ones.
This is being considered for funding by donor agencies.
3.03      There are about 20,000 Master Farmers in the Project areas.  In
the past, extension staff tended to work more with Master Farmers than with
average farmers, but this bias has changed, however, in recent years.
3.04      Extension, while needing improvement, is expected to be adequate
and is unlikely to be an overriding constraint to adoption under the
Project. Extension staff numbers currently average about 1:800 nationally.



- 16 -
However, the ratio of field staff to farmers in the SFCS areas is below
1:400 since these are priority areas. A major cash crop area like Gokwe has
a ratio of 1:235. Supervisory ratios in a typical Province e.g. Midlands,
are: I Agricultural Officer I: 7 Agricultural Officer II: 20 Extension
Supervisors: 131 Extension Assistants. Government plans to increase the
number of women extension staff substantially because a large number of
farmers are women.
B. Research
3.05      Although excellent research has been done for commercial farms,
limited work has been carried out in the communal areas except perhaps in
cotton. In the higher rainfall zones, where much of the Project lending
would take place, this is less serious because results from commercial farm
research are transferrable. In drier areas (Natural Region IV and V) where
risk becomes overriding and where fertilizer becomes uneconomic or
marginal,2/ it is a more serious constraint and a number of donors are now
expressing interest in assisting Government to define and tackle the
problem.
C. Roads
3.06       Internal transport will be a key factor in the future development
of the Communal Areas. The present poor condition of the feeder roads
connecting these areas to both the marketing depots and their sources of
input supply have been largely responsible for the 1980/81 breakdown in the
transport system which particularly affected the Gokwe area. The truckers
did not want to risk damaging their vehicles over the poor roads when
easier work was available elsewhere. The main problems for the Ministry of
Roads and Road Traffic are lack of recurrent funding, lack of staff (from
road foremen to plant operators), and lack of foreign exchange for
equipment.
3.07      There is a particularly urgent need to rebuild and repair 500 m
of feeder and minor roads throughout the Gokwe area in the Midlands
Province. Communal Areas in the late 1950s started producing cotton there
very successfully but this remarkable, seemingly spontaneous, initiative
will soon be dampened if the roads cannot be rebuilt and maintained. The
work would probably have to be done by contract as the Ministry of Roads
and Road Traffic does not have the staff or equipment for any extra
assignments.
D. Transport
3.08      Transport has proved to be a major bottleneck, especially after
the 'bumper-crop' of the 1980/81 season, although eventually all crops was
moved before the rains. Road transport has been stretched to the limits
2/ There have been two major experimental series investigating maize
fertilizer rates on the sandy soils representative of these areas, but
neither included zero treatments, so the economics of fertilizer
response in these locations is still uncertain.



- 17 -
trying to bring cotton and maize to the marketing depots. The problem is
not eased by the existence of substantial consumer subsidies that encourage
farmers to sell off whole grain maize and buy back processed maize meal
rather than retain for home processing and consumption. The major
constraint has been rail transport which has been affected by lack of
maintenance staff and was severely disrupted when locomotives on loan were
temporarily withdrawn.
3.09      The Government is aware of the problem.  New locomotives are on
order and technical assistance staff are being recruited for the railways.
Assistance is also being provided to the cooperatives to increase the
number of distribution points and Government supplied lorries last season
to assist in the worst areas.
E. Marketing Boards
3.10      The major agricultural commodites produced in the country are
marketed through their respective statutory marketing boards, the Grain,
Tobacco, Cotton, and Dairy Marketing Boards and the Cold Storage
Commission. They handle maize, tobacco, cotton, sorghum, groundnuts,
soybeans, coffee, beef and milk. Other products, not included above, are
marketed privately or through cooperatives. All controlled products, must,
by law, be marketed through the Board concerned. The Agricultural
Marketing Authority (AMA) controls the activities of all the statutory
marketing boards, except the Tobacco Marketing Board. The AMA also manages
the short-term finance requirements of boards.
3.11      Marketing in Zimbabwe has generally been efficient; depots have
been well managed, storage losses have been small, marketing costs have
been low and consequently good prices have been paid to farmers. However,
service to the Communal Areas has been neglected, and there remains some
conservativism in the Marketing Boards, in the absence of differential
pricing, to take the financial risks of moving into these areas with small
depots that may not reach sufficient volumes to break-even for many years.
Nevertheless, a number of new depots have been established, and this,
combined with the planned increase in cooperative distribution points,
should improve the marketing facilities substantially, leaving transport as
the overriding constraint.
F. Cooperatives
3.12      The Cooperative movement in Zimbabwe has been established on the
basis of self-determination and self-help but with the Department of
Marketing and Cooperatives providing technical, financial and educational
support.
3.13      Because individual small farmers cannot operate successfully
alone under the present centralized marketing and loan system, it will be
essential to have efficient Cooperatives, or some form of 'service
organization', for marketing, and farmers other needs in the Communal Areas
to function effectively.
3.14      The Cooperative movement has recently changed from 'members only'
to offering services to non-member small farmers. At present there is a



- 18 -
certain degree of healthy rivalry with Master Farmers' Clubs and similar
informal groups who feel that they can operate more efficiently than the
Coops.
3.15      Government policy is to improve input distribution and marketing
by encouraging Cooperatives and informal voluntary groups, broadly defined
as 'pre-cooperatives', to provide the main channel for distribution of
inputs and collection of produce. Toward this end, they are receiving the
assistance of USAID in setting up the necessary service cooperative
infrastructure. This will give strong logistical support to the small farm
credit program.
3.16      The first stage of the USAID funded program provides for 14
warehouses together with 72 distribution/collection centers which should be
in operation towards the end of 1981. The total targeted program for
completion by the end of 1983 is 40 depots (warehouses plus houses) and 400
distribution/collection centres. The total cost of the whole program is
estimated at Z$6.0 million (US$8.7 million).
3.17      This program is substantial and relatively low cost and in terms
of facilities would put the cooperatives in a more than adequate position
to handle the small farm credit inputs and marketing. The inexperience of
cooperative staff is expected to become the overriding constraint. A
training project to address this has been identified for possible IFAD
funding, but the impact of training will inevitably be slow to take effect.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The objective of the Project is to support the Government of
Zimbabwe's efforts to improve the living standards and incomes of the
farmers in Communal Areas (CA's) and African Purchase Areas (APA's) by
intensifying agricultural production through the use of inputs and by
developing the institutional capacity of AFC. Credit worthy farmers would
generally be the better farmers capable of handling the infrastructure
constraints and would reside predominantly in the better Natural Regions
where proven technical packages requiring credit already exist. Project
financing would enable AFC to expand its smallholder credit operations in
54 Communal Areas, including a number of small irrigation and specialized
settlements, and most of the APA's. Further support for these objectives
would be provided through the financing of facilities and technical
assistance to strengthen AFC and monitoring and evaluation.
4.02       Specifically, the Project would, over a three-year period,
provide for:
(i) Seasonal credit for seed, fertilizer and chemicals;
(ii) Medium-term credit for fencing, farm implements, scotch
carts (trailers), boreholes, wells, draught oxen and, also,
tractors for farmers in APA's;



- 19 -
(iii)  Facilities for AFC including additional office space and
housing in the regions, vehicles, computer and office
equipment;
(iv) Staff training and provision for technical assistance; and
(v) Monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
4.03      Responsibility for the implementation of the Project would rest
with AFC. The project area would be predominantly Natural Regions II and
III (see Maps 1 and 2) with a gradual increase in lending to selected
clients in other areas.
4.04      Table 2 below summarizes the number and amount of loans to be
financed by AFC during the 3-year Project period. The projection of credit
requirements is based on the experience gained from AFC's lending program
in 1979/80 and 1980/81 and is considered realistic in terms of the need and
potential demand for credit and AFC's ability to manage a program of this
size.
Table 2. Total Number and Amount of Loans Over Project Period
% of
No. of    Average Size                   Total
Loans        of Loan          Total      Loans
(Z$)        (Z$ 000)
Seasonal Loans
Communal Area Farmers    148,800          429           63,850       70
African Purchase Area
Farmers                  14,550      1,419           20,650       23
Sub-total            163,350                      84,500       93
Medium-Term Loans
Communal Area Farmers       12,200        212            2,586        3
African Purchase Area
Farmers                   1,350      2,746            3,707        4
Sub-total             13,550                        6,293        7
TOTAL                                              90,793     100
B. Detailed Features
Seasonal Credit
4.05       Seasonal credit for inputs would be provided to those farmers who
are judged by extension and credit staff to be creditworthy, to have
performed well in the past and to have good potential for increased



- 20 -
production. Loans would mainly be for fertilizer and pesticides for cotton
and maize. In accordance with AFC's present procedures new loans would not
be granted unless the previous loans are fully repaid. This requirement
may be waived under exceptional circumstances as described in para 2.15.
Credit for inputs in packs of one-half of one hectare would be extended in
kind by placing orders on an appropriate Cooperative Union. These unions
already exist and are being strengthened under other projects. The loans
to Communal Areas would be given at a temporary promotional interest rate
of 4% and 2% below the prime lending rate (at present 13%) in Project Years
1 and 2 respectively and at the prime lending rate thereafter and to APA
farmers at the prime rate throughout. In accordance with AFC's lending
rules they would be normally repayable by September 30 of the year
following the year the loans were given. A condition of credit
effectiveness would be the announcement by Government of the interest rates
that will be charged for the first year of the Project including
notification that the rate for seasonal credit in Communal Areas would
increase over the Project period.
4.06       It is estimated that the number of farmers in Communal Areas
obtaining seasonal loans would rise from the current year's (1981/82)
estimate of 33,000 to about 60,000 in the third year of the Project
(1984/85), giving 27,000 new borrowers. The average size of loans would
increase in current terms over that period from Z$333 (US$483) to Z$474
(US$687). These estimates assume that out of about 640,000 families living
on the Communal Lands about 25 percent are in suitable climatic areas and
are interested in adopting improved farming practices and that about
one-third of these would be found acceptable credit risks and would
actually adopt during project period. The total cost of loans to new
Communal Area borrowers together with financing for the incremental
requirements of AFCts present customers would be Z$17.1 million (US$24.8
million), see Table C-2.
4.07      The number of borrowers in APAs is expected to rise from the
current year's (1981/82) estimate of 3,930 to about 5,300 in the last year
of the Project and the average size of loan would increase from Z$976
(US$1,513) to Z$1,664 (US$2,413). As indicated in Table C-2 the cost of
meeting APA farmers' needs - new borrowers as well as increased
requirements of current borowers - is estimated to be Z$5.0 million (US$7.3
million). In CA's lending would be for 100% of the seasonal requirements
for the particular input package selected by the farmer this would not
normally be 100% of the total seasonal requirements for the farm; in APA's
AFC would make individual assessments and tailor the amount lent to the
individual needs of the farm, which again would not normally be 100% of the
total needs.
4.08      Repayment of all seasonal loans would be through high priority
stop orders on crops. Diversion of food crops through unofficial channels
is unlikely because of Zimbabwe's food self-sufficiency and the consumer
subsidies on maize. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that changes
in interest rates and lending terms would not be made without prior
approval of IDA.



- 21 -
MIedium-term Credit
4.09      Medium-term credit for up to five years would be available for
the purchase of fencing, farm implements, scotch carts (ox carts),
trailers, boreholes and wells, and in special cases, draught oxen to
farmers in Communal Areas as well as APA's. APA farmers would also be
allowed credit for purchase of tractors. Application for loans to purchase
these items would be considered in terms of the necessity for the
expenditure and the capacity of the farming business to repay the annual
installments. Borrowers contributions to purchase items financed under
medium term credit would vary in accordance with the size of investment
already made in the farming establishment and available cash resources.
Generally, CA farmers borrowing for the first time would be issued loans to
the full value of the items requested. Thereafter, the farmers would be
expected to make substantial contributions to the purchase of capital items
from their own resources. In the case of APA farmers, borrowers would be
required to make an average contribution of about 25% of the value of items
purchased. As most farmers already possess the basic tools necessary for
production, it is difficult to make an accurate assessment of demand for
medium-term credit. However, it is expected that about 10 percent of
existing producers already borrowing on a seasonal basis would seek credit
to update their equipment. On this basis a provision is made to lend to
some 12,200 Communal Area farmers about Z$2.6 million (US$3.8 million) and
to about 1,350 APA farmers about Z$3.7 million (US$5.4 million) phased as
indicated in Table C-3. For these loans, which would also be given at not
less than the prime commercial lending rate, fixed security would not be a
prerequisite as the loans might be granted on security of notarial bonds
over moveables or the reservation of ownership by AFC of the items
purchased. In the case of APA borrowers, if under 65 years of age,
participation in AFC's mortgage insurance scheme would be mandatory.
Repayment of loans would be through high priority stop orders on borrowers
produce. Assurances that these loan terms would be applied by AFC and that
changes would not be made without prior IDA approval were obtained at
negotiations.
Facilities for AFC
4.10      Buildings.  To handle the rapidly increasing loan applications
under the Small Farm Credit Scheme and to provide its clients prompt and
efficient service, AFC is committed to decentralization of its operations.
To achieve this AFC has embarked on a program of establishing additional
field offices. In addition to existing field offices, establishment of new
field offices is planned for early in 1982. Further extension of service
at the grass roots level would be undertaken during the project period by
adding seven district offices in Branch East Area and two in Branch West
Area at a cost of Z$104,000 (US$151,000). Because of lack of adequate
houses in some of the remote rural areas where additional offices would be
established provision would be made for construction of eight houses in
Branch East Area and two houses in Branch West Area at a cost of Z$198,000
(US$287,000) - see Table C-5.



- 22 -
4.11      Transport and Equipment.  Transport for AFC field staff is
inadequate.  This severely limits the ability of AFC field management and-
other staff to maintain effective communication with the farmers and makes
it difficult to exercise proper control over lending operations. To
alleviate this problem the Project would provide for the purchase of 16
motor cars and 36 pick-ups for the use of headquarters area and district
managers and other field staff. In addition, 22 motorcycles and 123
bicycles for the use of field staff would be provided. Total cost of these
vehicles would be Z$298,000 (US$432,000) as indicated in Table C-6. The
Project would also provide for office furniture and equipment for branch
offices to be established under the Project at a cost of Z$193,000
(US$280,000) - see Table C-4.
Computer Consultants and Computer Equipment
4.12      AFC maintains its accounting system on an ICL ME 29-35 computer.
The current hardware lease is to expire in 1984. With the rapid expansion
of the Small Farm Credit Scheme, the use of existing facilities is expected
to be fully stretched by 1982/83. An initial consultants report has
recently been completed recommending options for expansion. To further
plan for its long-term hardware and software requirements, to operate the
equipment and systems and to carry out training of staff, AFC needs outside
consultants and technical assistance. Funds would be provided under the
Project to finance this expertise. The precise nature of the assistance
required cannot be finalised until decisions on the type of equipment and
the extent of system decentralisation have been taken. Cost estimates are
therefore approximate. The cost of the technical assistance and
-onsultants services for the computer component is estimated to be
Z$300,000 (US$435,000) and the upgrading of computer facilities is expected
to cost about Z$400,000 (US$580,000) - see Table C-4. Man-month costs of
the technical assistance and consultancy excluding travel and subsistence
would be US$10,000. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
prior to the appointment of consultants and acquisition of computer
equipment IDA would be consulted and that the technical assistance staff
and consultants would be hired on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.
Technical Assistance
4.13      Training.   AFC needs to pay greater attention to training and
staffing particularly for SFCS. While there are two positions already
provided in the SFCS structure for advising and training, these are at
present unfilled because the staff were transferred onto a settlement
scheme program. AFC approached ODA for a senior training officer about 12
months ago and he is expected shortly. He will advise AFC on their
training needs and initiate a comprehensive training program for AFC staff
as well as Extension Officers and farmers, particularly group leaders. In
addition to the committed assistance, the missions assessment was that AFC
would need an additional three senior training staff along with transport
and other facilities to meet their staff training needs. Pending further
refinement of AFC's requirements, which would be undertaken by the ODA
expert, a sum of Z$300,000 (US$435,000) (Table C-4A) has been included in
the project costs for training.



- 23 -
4.14      Technical Assistance.  At present, AFC has an experienced and
capable management team, but there is some concern that AFC may lose
experienced personnel through emigration. Employment in the private
sector, which is also faced with the problem of staff attrition, offers
attractive opportunities for AFC and other parastatal employees, because of
increasing salary disparities between the two. While the loss of most
middle and lower management employees can be taken care of through an
effective training program, the replacement of most senior managers either
from within the organization or local recruitment would prove difficult in
the short- and medium-term. As the positions of General Manager, Deputy
General Manager, Assistant General Manager responsible for SFS and
Agricultural Economist are crucial to the success of the Project,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that these positions would be
filled throughout the life of the project with qualified and experienced
staff. Assurances were also obtained that the Borrower would consult with
the Association on the qualifications and experience of such staff prior to
appointment and that in the event that they are financed out of the
proceeds of the credit the terms and conditions of employment to fill these
positions would be acceptable to IDA.  In view of the uncertainty of the
future staffing situation a general provision is being made in the funding
to provide internationally recruited staff in the event of critical losses
in these posts. For this purpose, funds are provided under the Project to
cover 60 person-months (Z$400,000 or US$580,000) of expatriate staff. The
person-month costs including salary, benefits and international travel are
estimated to be about Z$6,700 (US$9,700). This is three or four times the
cost of staff recruited locally and although internationally recruited
staff might bring some useful outside experience, they would lack any local
knowledge. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that AFC would review
its remuneration package annually and that Government and AFC would make
necessary adjustments in the remuneration package to ensure that AFC is
able to recruit and retain its staff.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      AFC would maintain an adequate monitoring system to ensure
efficient management and to provide IDA with quarterly and annual progress
reports on the Project. In addition, AFC would ensure a level of
evaluation sufficient to allow some limited assessment of selected
variables to allow at least a partial analysis of the impact of credit on
loanees.
4.16      Minimum monitoring requirements are already largely met by the
present computerized management reporting system. Annex 2 indicates some
selected information that would be considered desirable for adequately
performing the monitoring function.
4.17      Evaluation of the impact of credit is a more difficult task than
monitoring. The fungibility of the cash or kind made available to the
farmer limits the usefulness of survey-based ex-post farm budget analysis
as a means of assessing the economic impact.3/ However, in spite of the
3/  A farmer who borrows, especially at subsidized interest rates, may have
done so unnecessarily. Without the Project he may have found
alternative sources and, indeed, even with Project credit he may still
use such sources and divert his readily fungible project credit to a
range of other non-productive purposes.



- 24 -
difficulty, some attempt is necessary to justify the expansion of lending.
The emphasis would be on studies that would assess the impact of credit on
adoption rates and other proxy indicators. No attempt would be made to
directly analyze changes in income arising from the credit program.
Accurate assessment of income is extremely difficult, with a high risk of
non-significant results. Furthermore, the likelihood of being able to
measure income changes over three years and get a statistically significant
correlation between that trend and the project inputs is negligible; to
then attribute causality would be even more problematic. AFC would recruit
an agricultural economist to work on monitoring and evaluation. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the position of Agricultural Economist
would be filled during the Project period with a suitably qualified and
experienced person and that, in the event that this position is financed
out of the proceeds of the credit, the terms and conditions of employment
to fill this position would be acceptable to IDA. He would be responsible
for coordinating the monitoring work to ensure that adequate and relevant
data reached management. He would also liaise with the cooperating
institutions on the evaluation exercise.
4.18      The project would provide funds for a collaborative evaluation
exercise with either the Ministry of Agriculture or the Department of Land
Management at the University of Zimbabwe. The University are already
involved in quite comprehensive farm surveys in the two most important
Project areas, and with some minor additions to their survey questionnaire,
could provide the data necessary to attempt some limited assessment of the
impact of credit. They have already analyzed data related to loanees in
the Gokwe area. Annex 2 includes some suggested evaluation data
requirements.
4.19      The objective of the evaluation surveys would be to:
(i)  assess the type of farmer being covered by the program;
(ii) understand the constraints faced by him with respect to the
delivery of the credit itself and the support services;
(iii) assess the impact of credit on those easily measured
indicators that might reasonably be taken as either proxies
for, or indirect contributors to, income. This would
require some formalized attempt, possibly through a few case
studies, at reaching an informed judgment about the extent
of diversion of credit due to fungibility (i.e. the extent
to which the credit represented a real net increase in
family financial resources).
4.20      Funding of the Monitoring and Evaluation component includes
consultancy fees, computerized data analysis, supplementary enumerators,
transport and subsistence allowances. The cost of this component is
estimated at Z$123,000 (US$178,000) as indicated in Table C.7). The
relatively low cost arises from the fact that the Project benefits from the
existence of appropriate ongoing surveys.



- 25 -
C. Project Costs
4.21      Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
Z$32.6 million (US$47.3 million) of which Z$18.0 million (US$26.2 million)
or 55 percent represents foreign exchange costs. Details of Project costs
as outlined in Tables C-1 to C-7 are summarized below:
Foreign  Base
Local  Foreign  Total  Local    Foreign  Total   Exchange    Cost
----is   0)( US S  '001: v   ___     
Seasonal credit         8, 8,.4  13,2e6  22,110    12,824  19,2?6  32,067)  5f,  69
Nedium-tern credit      4 ,3tJ7  3,163  7,530  6,332  4,5186  10,918  42  23
Facilities and co-putorization  604  889  1,493  876  1,h9  2,h65  60     5
Staff training and provision for
technical assista%ce   240     460,   700C  343    667    1,013   66    2
Monitoring and evalUation  113   1;  )   i3    164    14     178    8      1
Total hase co,t         145og  17_7i8  31 946   20,544  25,92  46,338  56  130
Physical contingencies    60      59    119    87     86     173    5'     1
Price contingencies      343     189    532   497    274     77'    36    2
Total project cost1/   14,571  18,936  32,607    21.128  26,152  47,280  55  103
I  Projec. costs include insignlifcant amount of taxes and duttes.  The medium term  credit total includes the
25. contribution by APA tarmers.
4.22      Project costs have been estimated on the basis of prices -expected
to prevail in April 1982. Physical contingencies of 10 percent have been
included on all costs except the costs of agricultural credit, computer
consultants and expatriate staff. Price contingencies on buildings (all
local costs) have been included at an annual rate of 40 percent in 1982/83
and 30 percent in the next two years, and on all other items except
agricultural credit at annual rates of 15 percent in 1982/83, 12 percent in
1983/84 and 9 percent in 1984/85 for local costs, and 8% in 1982/83 and
1983/84 and 7.5% thereafter on foreign exchange costs. The contingencies
on buildings reflect the current trend in rapidly increasing construction
costs during the present temporary reconstruction building boom. Price
contingencies in the project cost summary total 2 percent of base line
costs, however, price contingencies for the line of credit to farmers are
already incorporated in the base costs.
D. Financing
4.23      The financing of Project costs, net of direct taxes and duties
would be as follows:
US$ (million)      Percent
IDA                 30.4             64
KfW                   4.0             8
Government           11.1            24
Farmers               1.8             4
47J3           100



- 26 -
4.24      The proposed IDA credit to Government of US$30.4 million (Z$21.0
million) would be on standard terms. KfW would provide US$4.0 million
(Z$2.8 million) to Government for SFCS for a period of 30 years, including
a ten-year grace period at annual interest of two percent. This is part of
a DM10 million credit which would include funds for settlement lending.
Together, the credit and KfW funding would finance 73 percent of total
Project costs. These would include the total foreign exchange costs
(US$26.2 million) and 38 percent of local costs (US$8.2 million). The
Government would provide US$11.1 million (Z$7.7million) net of taxes and
duties. The farmer's contributions (US$1.8 million or Z$1.2 million) are
the 25% downpayments for the medium-term credit to APA farmers.
4.25      Credit funds (IDA) and KfW and Government contributions would be
on-lent to AFC in accordance with current legislation and practise as fixed
capital loans at the interest rate prevailing for Government loans to
statutory bodies, currently 9.5 percent. The cost of these funds would be
included in the Government's subsidy payment to AFC with the result that
AFC's capital base would be strengthened. These funds would be used by AFC
to establish a revolving fund to finance AFC lending to Communal Area and
African Purchase Area farmers. AFC financing arrangements are discussed in
Chapter V(D). Execution of a Subsidiary Agreement acceptable to IDA
between the Borrower and AFC covering these arrangements would be a
condition of effectiveness. Retroactive financing for seasonal and medium
term credit up to US$3 million may be required depending on the date of
signing of the Credit Agreement in order to fund a complete first season
and encourage earlv delivery of inputs since Project year 1 would be well
underway by the date of effectiveness. AFC does not at present have the
funds for incremental credit to small farmers. Without retroactive
financing AFC may be compelled to restrict small farm seasonal lending to
about 70 percent of its current year's lending program. This would
adversely affect about 4,000 farmers in the Communal Areas who would
otherwise be able to increase their production substantially.
E. Procurement
4.26      The items to be financed under the seasonal (US$32.1 million) and
medium-term (US$10.9 million) loan components would be varied and
unpredictable and not large enough to warrant international competitive
bidding (ICB). Procurement of items covered by seasonal loans (fertilizer,
seed and chemicals) would be based on farmers' requests. Orders would be
bulked as far as practicable and placed through cooperative unions with
local manufacturers and suppliers of the farmers' choice (including agents
of foreign suppliers); such orders get the same bulk discounts and early
delivery rebates as are given to the large commercial estates. As with
cash sales farmers would be entirely free to choose their suppliers (two
fertiliser suppliers and several pesticide suppliers) and product. AFC are
not involved in input supply except to the extent that they assist with
documentation for the bulking of orders. There is considered to be
adequate competition as a result of a commercial farm sector that has been
aggressive in reducing costs, and the level of technical and sales service
for products offered in the rural areas is part of that competition. ICB
would remove individual farmers freedom of choice and burden AFC while not
giving any advantages since the Project fertiliser requirements are less



- 27 -
than 5% of the national requirements and the Project, under the present
arrangements, would benefit from the fact that suppliers are already
bulking their seasonal requirements in quantities way beyond the relatively
small needs of the SFCS. Orders for farm implements and equipment would be
placed individually by farmers directly with local suppliers considered by
AFC to have adequate sales and after-sales services. Office buildings and
houses (US$700,000) would be procured under local competitive bidding
procedures being developed by AFC. Orders for vehicles (approximately
US$640,000) would be bulked as far as practicable and orders of US$100,000
and above would be procured by AFC through ICB from suppliers who maintain
(or agree to maintain) in Zimbabwe an adequate after-sales service and
inventory of spare parts. Orders for vehicles of less than US$100,000 and
furniture and equipment for offices (approximately US$420,000) would be
procured through local competitive bidding. Computer equipment
(approximately US$690,000) would be procured in a manner satisfactory to
IDA, after the recommendations of the consultants are known. Procurement
of consultants would be handled as in Para 4.12.
4.27      All bidding packages for works and goods of US$50,000 and above
would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documentation. Bid
analysis and recommendations for award would be submitted to IDA for
comment before contracts are awarded. The balance of contracts would be
subject to random post review by IDA after contract award.
4.28      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the above
procurement procedures would be followed. At present, AFC does not have
written procurement procedures although most of its procurement is through
local competitive bidding. Preparation of these procedures is underway.
Completion of procedures satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of
disbursement against procurement of buildings, vehicles and office
furniture and equipment.
F. Disbursements
4.29      The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover the following:
(i) 75 percent of AFC incremental seasonal loan disbursements for
inputs (US$24 million);
(ii) 85 percent of disbursements under AFC Communal Area
medium-term loans for farm implements and equipment
(US$3.2 million);4/
(iii) 75 percent of the local expenditures for buildings
(US$328,000);
(iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75% of local
expenditures for vehicles (US$324,000);
(v) 75 percent of the local expenditures for office furniture and
4/ KfW would disburse 75% of disbursements for medium-term loans for APA
farmers (US$4.0 million).



- 28 -
equipment (US$210,000);
(vi) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures for technical
assistance to AFC (computer consultants and expatriate staff)
- (US$1,015,000);
(vii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 75% of local
expenditures of computer equipment (US$580,000);
(viii) 75 percent of the local expenditures of training
(US$326,000);
(ix) 75 percent of the local expenditures of monitoring and
evaluation (US$134,000); and
(x) an unallocated amount of US$283,000 representing a
portion of the contingencies on the above categories and
transferable to them as required.
4.30      Incremental seasonal credit under (i) above would be defined as
the total seasonal loan amount disbursed under SFCS by AFC in the
current lending year (April 1 to March 31) less the total seasonal loan
amount disbursed under SFCS by AFC in the previous lending year (or the
previous highest lending year in the event that disbursements fall). AFC
would claim disbursements quarterly on the basis of increments for each
quarter over the total disbursements for the corresponding quarter during
the previous year, with an adjustment for the lending year total after the
final quarter. A draft Procedure I Form IC was discussed during
negotiations.
4.31      Disbursements under (i), (ii) and (viii) would be against
statements of expenditure certified by the General Manager of AFC; these
would be retained by AFC and made available to IDA for inspection in the
course of normal Project supervision. Disbursements under (iii), (iv),
(v), (vi), (vii) and (ix) would be fully documented. Funds remaining in
the credit at Project completion would be cancelled unless otherwise
agreed by IDA. A schedule showing the estimated pattern of disbursements
under the Project is in Table A-3. Since this is the first agricultural
project in Zimbabwe, and since to date AFC have been achieving their loan
projections without difficulty no historical country or regional lending
profiles have been used to project disbursements. Actual lending targets
have been used with an appropriate lag between lending and disbursement.
G. Audit and Accounts
4.32      AFC's accounts are presently audited by the Salisbury Office of
Deloitte Haskins and Sells who are satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that AFC would continue to appoint independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. The auditors in their report would be requested to make
specific reference to the reviews of documents supporting the Statements of
Expenditures under (i), (ii) and (viii) referred to in paragraph 4.31 and
certify that these documents are in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the credit.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEHENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      At present, AFC is still largely organized as it was prior to the
rapid expansion of SFCS (see Chart 1). The direction and management of AFC
is entrusted to a Board which is assisted by AFC's staff headed by a
General Manager as described in paras 2.19-2.23.
5.02      AFC has six area credit offices (provincial or regional) and nine
district offices.  At each of the field offices, it has a Manager and
several inspectors plus support staff.
5.03      The SFCS was until recently headed by a Senior Manager (see
Chart 2) assisted by two Branch Managers each responsible for two SFCS
areas headed by an Area Manager. This has now changed somewhat (see para.
5.04), but at the Area level the organisation remains essentially the
same. In each Area (see Charts 3 and 4), there is an Area Credit Officer
and seven to ten Credit Officers responsible for the field work. At the
lower level, there are about three Credit Assistants for each Credit
Officer; the assistants have limited qualifications, are generally from an
extension background and are located in the field with responsibility to
organize the various groups. As the size of the SFCS program increases,
the expansion at the field level should not be difficult due to the
decentralized organization.
5.04      AFC senior management needed some strengthening due to the growth
of SFCS. At least one new senior post needed to be established. This has
been under review and at negotiations IDA were advised that the necessary
decisions had been made and that there is now an Assistant General Manager
for Small Farm Operations who will in due course have three Regional
Managers under him. This Assistant General Manager replaces the Senior
Manager of SFCS.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
5.05      The existing SFCS system would be followed initially.  As far as
practicable groups of farmers are organized at the local level by credit
assistants with the help of extension staff. Individual borrowers in the
groups are rated on ability and likely success by the Chairman of each
group and by the field officer. This rating takes into account the
person's reputation as a farmer as well as the suitability of his farm.
The credit officer on a designated date meets with the whole group on both
a group basis and an individual basis to prepare each applicant's request.
Each request is summarized on one line of a group form on the basis of
standard inputs and is then referred to the local AFC office for approval
or rejection. Requests are approved subject to a satisfactory assessment
of the person's capability and payment of previous loans.
5.06      In determining who receive loans, AFC take into account general
aspects of access to inputs and transport, as well as suitability of the
location for growing crops. AFC would initially concentrate on those areas
where prospects of achieving a substantial incremental production are high.



- 30 -
5.07       Currently the groups used are for administrative purposes, and
within the groups individual loans are made and recorded, but AFC is
anxious to move toward group lending with joint and several liability
for loans. While there are some potential advantages to AFC from this
joint liability, there are also some risks and individual farmers may often
prefer to independently borrow and repay their loans. AFC already has some
group responsibility borrowers and would proceed cautiously towards
expanding this concept.
5.08      In line with Government's policy of growth with equity,
assistance to the poor in the lower potential areas, particularly Natural
Regions IV and V, is given high priority. The concessionary interest rates
proposed for these areas is a manifestation of this concern. However, the
limited number of proven profitable innovations in those Natural Regions
make them higher risk areas for lending and therefore rather limited
numbers of farmers in these areas are expected to meet the criteria of
AFC's Policy Statement.
5.09      Alongside the SFCS scheme AFC would be involved in administering
Government's lending to settlement farmers. The financing of this special
program would be accounted and subsidized quite separately from AFC's
normal operations.
C. Interest Rates
5.10      Interest rates to farmers would be at or above the prime
commercial lending rate (currently 13%) for all seasonal and medium term
lending to Communal Area farmers and for all seasonal and medium term
lending to Purchase Area farmers. For seasonal lending in all Communal
Areas a temporary promotional rate of 4% and 2% below the prime rate for
Project years 1 and 2 and at or above the prime rate thereafter would be
adopted. The interest rates and lending terms would be reviewed annually
by the Government and IDA and may be adjusted if necessary to ensure the
efficient operation of AFC's lending program. At their present prime rate
level interest rates are below the rate of inflation of 15 percent with the
proposed promotional rate being further below. However, the rate of
inflation is forecast to fall as follows: 1982-15%, 1983-12%, 1984-9%,
1985-7% and 1986-96 - 6%. Assuming these forecasts are accurate there are
reasonable prospects for positive real interest rates during the Project
period even for the promotional lending as general interest rates would be
unlikely to fall as far and as fast as the inflation rates.
D. Financial Structure
5.11      AFC's loan portfolio increased from Z$87 million (US$126 million)
in financial year 1976 to about Z$152 million (US$220 million) as at the
end of the financial year in March 1981. Outstanding loans and AFC's other
net assets amounting to about Z$4 million (US$6 million) were financed by
Z$19 million (US$27 million) of free capital and reserves, Z$109 million
(US$158 million) in Government loans and about Z$28 million (US$41 million)
in borrowings from other sources, the bulk of which was provided by the
commercial banks. Government loans are provided at interest rates which
are equal to or marginally higher than the cost of these funds to the
Government; on commercial borrowings AFC has to pay the going interest
rates.



- 31 -
5.12      At the end of financial year 1981 AFC's free capital and reserves
provided about 12% of its total financial resources or a total debt/equity
ratio of approximately 7:1. To finance the rapid projected rise in lending
under SFCS and the increase in its commercial farmer lending program, AFC
would need to more than double its financial resources. With its
commercial farmer business only marginally profitable and SFCS requiring
large Government subsidies to meet heavy losses (see para. 5.17) AFC's free
capital and reserves will drop to about 7.5% of total resources or equal to
a total debt/equity ratio of over 12:1 at the end of the project period
(1984/85). This ratio would only be acceptable if complemented by the
provision of incremental funding under the Project in the form of fixed
loan capital passed to AFC as irredeemable loans and, unlike existing long
term Government loans, provided the irredeemable nature of those loans is
clearly documented. Under these circumstances such fixed loan capital
would be viewed by lenders as quasi-equity. This would still leave AFC
somewhat vulnerable to increases in the cost of capital, but the
methodology of subsidy calculation deals with that for the SFCS part of
AFC's business.
5.13      To finance its future lending program through the project period
(1984/85) AFC will need additional financial resources of about Z$170
million (US$246 million). Of the total amount required about Z$47 million
(US$68 million) would be for SFCS and the balance for commercial farmers.
Part of the incremental requirements of SFCS (Z$31.4 million or US$45.5
million) would be available from project financing by way of the
Government's contribution through fixed loan capital representing the IDA,
KfW, and Government contributions to the Project (para. 4.25). Injection
of Project quasi-equity funds plus about Z$5 million (US$7 million) in
estimated profits on its commercial lending would enable AFC to build up
its equity and fixed loan capital provided under the Project to about 17%
of its total financial resources. This is considered acceptable because
most of AFC's lending is secured and, provided the irredeemable nature of
the Government loans is clearly specified in the Subsidiary Agreement,
lenders are expected to treat such loans as being similar to true equity in
their assessment of lending risks.
5.14      AFC's remaining needs of about Z$16 million (US$23 million) to
finance SFCS and credit to commercial farmers (Z$118 million or US$171
million) would be met by a mixture of Government and commercial loans.
Since it is the Government's intention for AFC to reduce its reliance on
low cost Government funds and increase borrowings in the money market, it
has been assumed for the purpose of financial projections that only half of
the required funds other than project funds, would be available from the
Government at their applicable rate for Statutory Bodies (currently 9%)
and the balance would be raised in the money market at the applicable prime
lending rate which at present is 13% to 14%.
5.15      AFC by its controlling legislation is required to carry out its
functions in a responsible manner and to ensure that it operates on a 'no
loss' basis, taking one year with another.  Where it is required by
Government to exceed what is regarded as commercially prudent lending
practice, appropriate schemes (e.g. SFCS and settlement) are authorized by
the Government. In these instances Government guarantees by law any losses



- 32 -
that may result from the implementation of a scheme. However, AFC sets its
interest rates to commercial farmers equal or close to the interest charged
by commercial banks to similar clients. The administrative expenses
associated with handling of commercial loans of large amounts are
relatively low. Also, because the operations of large commercial farmers
are financially sound, AFC has been able to keep its losses at a minimal
level. This trend is expected to continue in future and it is estimated
that the administrative costs and loss provisions on commercial lending
would be about 2% of the average loan portfolio during the three project
years. Conversely, loans under the SFCS are of small amounts and difficult
to administer. Also, as the scheme has recently started there is virtually
no track record of bad debts. It is estimated that the overall cost of
administering the scheme including a 10 percent provision for losses, would
be 19% in 1982/83, 16% in 1983/84 and 15% in 1984/85 of the average
outstanding loans to small farmers. Until AFC has gained more experience
in its SFCS operations a 10% loss provision is considered judicious.
The declining cost percentage mostly reflects the faster growth in loan
portfolio in relation to administative expenses.
5.16      Based on the above assumptions (paras. 5.14 and 5.15) AFC's
commercial lending program can be expected to be marginally profitable. On
the other hand Government subsidy as indicated in Table A-5 would be
required to operate SFCS on a 'no loss' basis. Since it is the
Government's policy that all subsidies be fully disclosed to Parliament,
AFC would be required to pay the full cost of financing the scheme and be
reimbursed by way of Government subsidy for any shortfall. This would
entail making allowance for interest on Government loans equal to the Bank
rate and interest on commercial loans at the going interest rates. In
addition, calculation of estimated amounts of subsidy (Table A-5) assume
that AFC's total loan capital (excluding free capital and reserves) at the
beginning of the project period would be apportioned between SFCS and its
commercial farm business at the applicable average interest rate. It is
estimated that the amount of borrowed funds allocated to SFCS at the
beginning of the project period is about Z$18 million (US$26 million) and
the average cost of these funds is about 8 percent.
5.17      The projected subsidy for SFCS based on the assumptions in
paras. 5.13, 5.14 and 5.15 would amount to about Z$4.5 million (US$6.5
million) in 1982/83, Z$6.0 million (US$8.7 million) in 1983/84 and Z$7.6
million (US$11.0 million) in 1984/85 (Table A-5). The actual equivalents
of these projected subsidies would be due and payable by the Government to
AFC in accordance with existing legislation. To calculate these projected
subsidies the following formula was used:
1982/83        I-Z$1.44 million - C - D - 19% X
1983/84        I-Z$1.44 million - C - D - 16% X
1984/85        I-Z$1.44 million - C - D - 15% X
where I is the amount of interest earned on SFCS loans, Z$1.44 million is
the cost of Z$18 million allocated to SFCS at 8% average interest at the
beginning of project period, C is the cost of incremental funds including
project funds, D is the amount of interest due to Government on permanent
loan capital injected under the project and X is the average outstanding
SFCS loan portfolio.



- 33 -
5.18      To assist planning and control of SFCS operations and to forecast
the annual subsidy AFC would prepare each year advance estimates of
revenues and expenditures, including reasonable estimates of administrative
expenses and provision for bad debts, along the lines of the methodology in
the formula above. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government and IDA would review the reasons for any subsidy claim in excess
of the forecast.
5.19      Projected subsidies would be payable by Government to AFC in
advance of the season. AFC would maintain separate accounts for SFCS and
commercial farm lending and within six months of the closing of its
accounting year (March 31) a reconciliation between projected and actual
subsidy would be made. To the extent that the amount of actual subsidy
exceeds or is less than the projected subsidy paid by the Government AFC
would be entitled to payment from the Government or would refund to the
Government, as the case may be, the full amount of the difference.
5.20      Agreement on the above subsidy arrangements between the
Government and AFC were obtained at negotiations. This would be reflected
in a Subsidiary Agreement between Government and AFC.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.21      Monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of AFC.
The Chief Economist would be designated specific responsibility for the
overall supervision of this work, with the agricultural economist under him
being responsible for the day-to-day implementation and analysis. Close
liaison would be necessary with the Organization and Methods and Data
Processing Unit. The objective of the monitoring would be to improve
management by ensuring a prompt supply of data to allow quick management
response.
5.22      For evaluation, reliance would be placed either on the existing
survey activities of the Department of Land Management at the University
who are already carrying out farm survey work in two of the major credit
areas which cover more than 30 percent of the potential loanees under the
Project or on Ministry of Agriculture survey capability. Funding would be
made available to support and supplement these surveys provided any
reasonable necessary adjustments to the survey methodology would be
accommodated. Evaluation would explicitly include an assessment of the
role of the Savings Clubs in the Project Areas and the possibility of some
future linkage between savings and credit. Annex 2 expands on Monitoring
and Evaluation needs.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Project Areas
6.01      Five groups of Communal Areas (CAs), together with the African
Purchase Areas (APAs), constitute the Project Area (see Map 2).



- 34 -
6.02      The first group and the largest block in the group is Gokwe
Communal Area and its neighbours with a total area of over 1 million ha,
17% of the total Communal land. It has good potential for growing cotton
as a cash crop and is more than self-sufficient in food crops.
6.03      To the North-West of Harare and situated within the Sanyati River
system is the second group of Communal Areas commencing with Zwimba, near
Hartley and ending with the Mukwichi Communal Area in the vicinity of
Karoi, these areas produce good crops of maize with surplus for cash sales.
6.04      The third group, North East of Harare and within the Mazoe River
system, is also a good grain producing area.
6.05      To the East of the capital with Umtali as the focus and strung
out along the productive Eastern Highlands is the Manicaland group of
Communal Areas lying within the Sabi River system.
6.06      Finally, in the South, and also within the lower reaches of the
Sabi river drainage system is the lower potential Victoria Province group
with Fort Victoria as its main center. This group produce maize and
groundnuts but very little cotton or other cash crops. It is here that
Oriental Tobacco could be grown.
6.07      The Project Areas total 63,108 km2.  There is little chance of
cultivated area expansion in most of these areas except Gokwe so any
increases in credit need over time would have to be related to yield
ncreasing innovat4onys.  The majority of lending would be for rainfed
agriculture, but about 10% by value (less by number of loans) would be for
smallholder irrigated plots mainly in the Sabi Valley.
6.08      The Purchase Areas are scattered over a wide area frequently in
small pockets. They are generally somewhat more accessible than the
Communal Areas (see Map 2).
B. Farm Systems in the Project Area
6.09      There are three sectors involved in agricultural production in
Zimbabwe, the commercial sector, the African Purchase Areas and the
communal sector. The commercial sector is export-oriented and capital
intensive and includes tobacco/maize systems, irrigation and ranching. The
Project is concerned only with the African Purchase Areas (APAs) and the
Communal Areas (CA's formerly TTLs).
African Purchase Areas
6.10      APAs are scattered throughout the country, but are mainly in
Natural Regions IIb and III. Average farm size is about 130 hectares.
Pockets of highly productive and mechanized farming are found, mainly in
Region Ilb, but generally APA farms are not intensively used. Mixed
farming is practised, but this usually consists of about 8 hectares of crop
with the rest of the farm carrying cattle on natural pasture. Crops grown
generally consist of maize and cotton. APA farmers retain much of their
maize for use as a payment-in-kind to the casual labor force. One in eight
of these farmers has a tractor and cultivation equipment which, after



- 35 -
satisfying his own needs, he uses for contract ploughing and cartage.  The
others utilize trained oxen. Many APA farmers have a preference for
cattle, and once their cattle acquisition needs have been met, they revert
to cultivating only sufficient land for their immediate needs.
Communal Areas
6.11      The Communal Areas are predominantly occupied by small
semi-subsistence farms on which food crop production is a major concern.
The crop production is combined with small stock and cattle grazing on
communal natural pasture. Plowing by oxen is almost universal. Cultivation
land is held by the traditional right of "usufruct". This sector is now
producing substantial quantities of maize and is almost self-sufficient.
In addition, it produces most of the groundnuts, sorghum and sunflower.
The average communal farmer has a small farm unit of about two hectares of
crop. Larger areas are cultivated in the less densely populated locations
like Gokwe where large quantities of cotton are produced at yield levels
over 1,000 kg per ha.
6.12       Only 50% of Communal Area farmers possess cattle, while
virtually all have some goats, sheep and poultry. Many depend on some
production of maize, almost irrespective of rainfall, other crops include
groundnuts, cotton, millet, sunflower. Sorghum and millets are generally
substituted for maize in Natural Regions IV and V. There are wide
differences between farmers, related to the availability of land, labor,
farm management capability and motivation. Throughout the communal areas,
there is a strong group of progressive, market-oriented farmers with a
vigorous 'Master Farmer' movement. Use of hybrid maize has been common for
years. Fertilizers are used fairly extensively.
6.13      Rotations practiced in the better rainfall areas are:
maize/cotton/millet/groundnuts. In the more marginal areas, sorghum
followed by sunflower, followed by millet and groundnuts. There is
generally no fallow due to demographic pressure. Small farmer cropping
systems are usually closely related to, and integrated with, livestock
keeping, especially where draft oxen are involved. The use of farm yard
manure (FYM) as a fertilizer is widespread, where it is available.
6.14      Large numbers of male heads of household live and work away from
home. Women are responsible for 70% of the farm work, ox-ploughing is also
done by the women as well as the men; manual work is carried out with hoes
and fairly primitive handtools, these could undoubtedly be improved,
especially for weeding. Some small scale irrigation is practiced.
6.15      The main source of draft power in the communal sector is oxen,
and surveys have shown that there is an average of 1.1 oxen/cultivator.
(The war had a serious effect on livestock numbers). Apart from an
insufficient number of oxen, the paucity of grazing during the dry months,
leaves them too malnourished to work effectively before the onset of the
November rains. This,combined with the hard soil conditions and hot dry
weather, results in substandard land preparation and decreased yields.



- 36 -
6.16      The small farmer in Zimbabwe is relatively sophisticated and is
generally familiar with farm inputs and draft power. A manifestation of
this was the extraordinarily rapid introduction of cotton as a cash crop in
the Gokwe area in the 1960's.
6.17      There is a need to put a greater effort into adaptive research
and extension. In the South and South East of the country there are many
communal farmers on areas of low and erratic rainfall that make both food
and cash cropping a risky proposition; economic recommendations are needed
for these areas before there is any possibility of considering them as
potential credit areas on any significant scale. Oriental tobacco is a
crop that technically could be successfully and profitably produced under
these conditions given the necessary organisation.
C. Technical Packages and Production Impact
6.18      Technical packages being currently recommended in the CAs in the
better Natural Regions (see hectare budget tables B-1 to B-5) are generally
satisfactory, giving B:C ratios above 2:1, however they would still benefit
considerably from more system-specific and location-specific adaptive
research. The packages have been derived from recommendations developed for
commercial farmers in Natural Regions II and III. Unfortunately, little
adaptive research has been carried out under communal farmers' cropping
conditions and related to his resource availability and risk perceptions.
6.19      Agreement was reached during appraisal with the Department of
Research and Specialist Services (R&SS) that a number of adjustments were
warranted in the technical packages and it is proposed that these should be
discussed between R&SS, AFC, and AgriTex. In particular it was agreed that
CA farmers would be better served by a higher concentration of Nitrogen and
Phosphate and no Potash (little response has been shown to this nutrient).
It was therefore agreed that the maize package could be changed from
Compound 'D' to Compound 'P' (a standard package containing 10% N).
18% P205; 6.5% Sulphur). This package is slightly more expensive on a per
bag basis but has a nutrient combination better suited to the CA lands,
with more N and P than Compound D. These and other changes are proposed in
Annex 3. Standardised packages, while very convenient administratively,
present serious problems of lack of flexibility, for example, a farmer who
has some insecticides left over from the previous year gets some again the
following year in his credit package whether he wants it or not. Accurate
design of the packages and packing of requirements in the correct packs for
the -f hectare units is essential if this system is not to break down.
6.20      Pesticides, fungicides and herbicides are being quite widely
employed to contain the pests and diseases prevalent in the country. There
is, however, a need on both economic and environmental grounds to encourage
the communal farmers to do more 'pest scouting'.
6.21      Demand for fertilizer from CAs is likely to take off with the
ending of hostilities, and with the increased support for these areas
through this and other projects. This will test the suppliers ability to
provide the fertilizer. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
Government would provide foreign exchange to ensure that the expanded
demand for the AFC program would be met.



- 37 -
6.22      Accurate projections of the Project's impact on production have
not been attempted, nor has an Economic Rate of Return been calculated
because AFC are considered competent to act within their stated policy
framework to make sound judgements on lending. The type of lending that
would eventuate is therefore unpredictable within broad limits. However,
the indicative hectare budgets and farm models (Tables B-1 to B-7) give
some general orders of magnitude. (These are based partly on farm surveys
carried out by AFC during project preparation.) The budgets show
approximate increments of 17 kg maize and 7 kg cotton per Z$ I of seasonal
credit. Assuming 50% of the total Project credit would be used on maize and
50% on cotton, and allowing for bad debt erosion of the revolving fund, the
incremental quantities produced by Year 3 would, in theory, reach very
approximately 130,000 tons maize and 55,000 tons seed cotton, worth
together about Z$ 38 million. In practise, the net effect over the without
Project situation is likely to be much less since some farmers would
undoubtedly have achieved the same funding even without the Project. For
comparison of these increments, the without Project base level for the
1980/81 small scale farmer maize crop was estimated to reach 100,000 tons
and the cotton crop about 60,000 tons.
D. Marketing and Prices
Maize Marketing
6.23      Maize is handled by the Grain Marketing Board (GMB).  Prices are
fixed by May 1 each year on the advise of AMA and with the help of a crop
forecasting system. The 'pricing point' for all controlled grains is the
'line-of-rail' nearest the collection center. This adversely affects the
communal farmers isolated by poorly maintained road networks, but avoids
the distortions created by pan-territorial pricing. The country is well
supplied with bulk silos and grain marketing depots in the commercial
areas, but less well supplied in the communal areas. The cost to the
communal farmer, of transporting his maize to the nearest depot is
generally between 80 cents/bag and $2/bag depending on the condition of the
feeder road and the distance to the nearest collection center. This would
be equivalent to between 7% and 18% of the value of the grain. These costs
should be reduced with the establishment of more cooperative distribution
and collection centres, but only if they are run efficiently.
Cotton Marketing
6.24      Like other farm commodities, cotton is subject to fixed prices,
but these are based on market realisation. Should the Cotton Marketing
Board achieve a surplus in its trading account, this would normally be
passed on to the producers by means of supplementary payments. Cotton
prices are good compared with most other countries in Eastern Africa and
include far better quality incentives. The Board's costs currently
represent 19% of the farm gate price.
6.25      As with maize, collection depots are a problem for the communal
farmers to reach.  In 1981, because of the marketing crisis, farmers were
paying up to $20/bale for transport which is normally $4/bale. A further
constraint with cotton marketing, is the slow handling at the collection
center where each bale has to be carefully graded under artificial light.



- 38 -
Constraints
6.26      The marketing boards have plans to construct more warehouses and
depots/collection centers, but they do not intend at present to reduce the
collection radius below an average of about 60 km; it is considered,
probably correctly, that this would create a sub-optimalburden of overheads
which would adversely affect the net price paid to producers. Reliance for
increased collection services below the depot level would therefore be
placed on the development of cooperatives. This would probably result in a
satisfactory marketing system provided training for cooperative management
is given high priority and provided the collection lines at existing
marketing depots can be increased to speed up the rate of intake. This
would involve relatively small investments and more trained staff (e.g.
cotton graders). A further measure which could have a significant impact
would be the proposed extension of the system of approved or licensed
buyers.
6.27      The sophistication of the marketing system presents problems for
some communal farmers because they are paid by cheque. There are few
banking outlets in the smaller scattered settlements and even fewer mobile
Banks. Farmers often have to make a special trip to the nearest large town
to cash their cheques. If they cash them at the local store, they are
sometimes obliged to take a significant part of the value in kind. The
increased cooperative development anticipated should allow easier payment
arrangements to develop.
Marketing Outlook
6.28      Lending by AFC under the Project would be flexible, farmers
demand for credit would adjust to changing price levels and profitability.
The two major crops that are expected to be produced with Project funded
credit would be maize and cotton.
6.29      The market outlook for maize is difficult to forecast.  A huge
surplus was produced during the 1980/81 season, but this arose from an
extremely high price and a very favourable season. In real terms the
Government controlled price is likely to be allowed to fall somewhat,
furthermore the favourable season may not be repeated for several years.
Nevertheless, the present situation is likely to see a 1.2 million ton
surplus in store by March 31, 1982 and unless transport on the railways can
be improved a second large crop would be an embarrassment. (It is now
clear that the 1981/82 season will be poor). However, given the maize
imports into Zimbabwe only a year ago, the firm world prices, the food
security plan of the SADCC, the possibility of further emigration of
commercial farmers, and the general food situation in Africa, the current
stocks should not be considered as anything but an asset.
6.30      The outlook for cotton is good.  Zimbabwe produces a high quality
American upland medium staple which is much in demand. 30% is locally
used, the remainder has a ready export market.



- 39 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION
A. General
7.01      Zimbabwe small farm families have just emerged from a war during
which they not only lost much of what they possessed in terms of equipment
and cattle but during which they produced little and therefore saved
little.  Credit to lift them out of this situation is likely to be
beneficial since there are few other sources of funding within the system.
There seems therefore to be a real need for credit as well as an observable
demand.
7.02      The Communal Areas range from high potential to low potential
areas. As with other parts of Eastern Africa the number of profitable
innovations that can be offered at present to the average farmer in the
lower potential areas is very small. Credit at viable repayment levels is
therefore suited mainly to the better areas. Since credit is only one of a
number of constraints, it is suited to those areas where infrastructure
constraints are not predominant or to those farm families who are
particularly capable of dealing with infrastructural problems.
7.03      The project is therefore directed at a target group of generally
somewhat above average capacity farmers although many are still extremely
poor.
7.04      Beyond the lending itself, the project is aimed at institution
building to increase AFC's capability for future expansion of the small
farm lending program to cover larger numbers of farmers.
B. Benefit Analysis
7.05      A selection of budgets were prepared to confirm that the major
expected types of loan would be financially profitable, but the number and
type of loans would be left entirely to AFC's judgement. The Project is
therefore justified mainly on the grounds of an evaluation of the
competence of the institution to make sound lending judgements about
clients, however this judgement is supported by individual internal
economic rate of return analysis of the two predominant financial hectare
budgets to demonstrate that the economic position is not sufficiently
different from the financial to raise concerns about pricing.
7.06      With respect to cotton, the pricing system followed is such as to
reflect, in the farm gate payment, the trading conditions on the world
market. Producer Prices are set and then in some years supplementary
payments are made if trading realisations turn out to have been better than
expected. There is therefore quite a close relationship between the
financial and economic position since currently the shadow rate of exchange
is considered to be at par with the official rate. Thus for cotton the
rate of return on seasonal loans is estimated at over 50% for both Natural
Regions.
7.07      With respect to maize, the official price is not linked to world
prices in the same way, and while up to the start of the current 1980/81
season when maize was being imported there was a case for taking import



- 40 -
parity as the adjustment basis, now, with a 1.2 million ton surplus, an
export parity calculation makes more sense. Table B-8 gives the Maize
export parity calculations at projected 1985 constant prices. Applying the
weighted mean parity of Z$102 per ton gives an internal economic rate of
return for the maize production activity of approximately 50% for both
Natural Regions. In both cotton and maize analyses benefits were staggered
9 months from the input cost date and incremental labor was valued at
Z$1.20 per manday on the basis of typical net returns per manday shown in
the basic farmer budgets. This represents about 65% of the current minimum
wage and was treated as a proxy for the shadow wage rate.
7.08      Individual analysis has not been attempted for medium term
lending in view of the range of individual items and combinations of items
that would be the subject of loans and in view of the fact that individual
analysis would be made for these clients by AFC.
7.09      Thus, while the project does not lend itself to a definitive rate
of return analysis, it is clear that the high economic rates of return
anticipated from the major lending activities would easily carry the quite
modest levels of development expenditure required and the annual
administrative costs of less than 10%. The Project as a whole is therefore
expected to be very beneficial to the economy of Zimbabwe. The
Agricultural Economist would be responsible for annually reviewing the
major lending models for financial and economic viability.
C. Beneficiaries
7.10      The Project beneficiaries by Year 3 would be approximately 30,000
families in the Communal Areas on farm sizes of about 2-3 hectares of
cultivation and about 4,000 families including labour, in the Purchase
Areas on farm sizes between 20 hectares and 800 hectares. About 10% of
lending would go to intensive settlement irrigation farms which are
included in the Communal Area lending. These are mainly long established
settlers and not a part of the new resettlement program which would be
treated by AFC as a separate lending operation. By Year 3 the total number
of loanees under the SFCS would represent about 10% of all Communal Area
farmers with the Project increment representing about 5%. A substantial
proportion of these loans would be made to women since women are de facto
heads of household in many farm families.
7.11      Selection would be based in all cases on judgement of credit
worthiness. For the sake of both the client and the institution this
requires that the farmer would start at a base level of output at which
incremental production would be marketed for repayment purposes and not
consumed or diverted to other essential prior claims. It also requires
that a farmer be capable enough to deal with the infrastructural
constraints. These requirements will tend to result in a focus on somewhat
above average income farmers. In practise the group would probably consist
of the best farmers in the low potential areas, the above average farmers
in the intermediate areas and the average to above average farmers in the
better areas. Nevertheless, the average net farm income of loanees is not
expected to be more than about Z$140 (US$203) to Z$190 (US$276) per family
before credit, about US$50 per capita. This is approximately a subsistence
level. GNP per capta in 1980 was estimated at US$630 (World Bank Atlas



- 41 -
Methodology) and the minimum agricultural wage is now US$650.  Incomes with
the Project, assuming no diversion of credit, would rise by between 40% and
200% depending on the scale of packages adopted. The reality of credit
fungibility however, would point to actual income increments over the
without Project situation substantially below these percentages.
7.12      Settlement farmers in the first one or two years, while not
ineligible for credit under the scheme would seldom qualify as being
credit-worthy due to their lack of farming experience, lack of track
record, and early preoccupation with production for home consumption.
Other schemes are available for these farmers, but they would be expected
to graduate to the SFCS program after about 3 to 4 years.  Farmers not
considered good credit risks, particularly those in the drier areas, would
be supported by infrastructure investment, cooperative and marketing
projects, and adaptive research (para. 3.05), and extension.
7.13      Farmers in the Purchase Areas are typically on medium-sized
holdings but with a very substantial range in farm size. Incomes vary
quite widely since apart from the size difference, farms are being used at
a wide range of intensities. The majority are achieving net farm incomes
of between Z$1,000 and Z$2,000 per annum and could expect to increase this
by about Z$1,000 using project credit. Individual farm budgets and cash
flows would be prepared for these loans by Credit Officers.
D. Risks
7.14      Risks are of two kinds, those associated with productivity and
those associated with the institution. The two are closely associated
since experience elsewhere in Africa has shown unequivocally that a
struggling institution would very quickly result in reduced services to the
farmer and thus affect the productivity objective.
7.15      With respect to the farmer the major project risk is the
possibility of a breakdown in transport for marketing and input supply.
The 1980/81 season showed the problems of a bumper harvest combined with
poor roads, limited marketing facilities, and limited road transport,
although in the event collection of last seasons crop was completed before
the rains. Government have taken the transport and marketing problems
seriously and a number of measures have been instituted to tackle the
problem.
7.16      With respect to the institution in the broadest sense the risks
are potentially quite serious and on the basis of experience elsewhere
(although there are no examples of these occurrences in Zimbabwe) include
the possibility of pressure to lend indiscriminately, pressure towards
reducing credit collection efforts, financial squeezing of the institution
arising from national low interest rate policies and budgetary squeezing of
interest rate spreads. The existence of low interest rates for certain
borrowers in the Communal Areas must be considered the focus for such
concerns about Project risk. Experience elsewhere has shown that all these
possible events, even those aimed at helping the farmer, have had perverse
effects and have ultimately done the small farmer, particularly the poor
small farmer, a disservice. Assurances on lending policy to be sought at
negotiations are aimed at minimizing these risks.



- 42 -
7.17      At the institutional level the most serious risk for physical
implementation is the risk of greater than projected loss of experienced
management staff. The training program would address the staffing
constraint, but in the short term this can have only limited impact at the
senior levels.
E. Environmental Impact
7.18      Environmental concerns should be focused on two aspects of the
Project, land degradation especially in the Communal Areas and the use of
pesticides. The former is unlikely to be made worse by the Project since
all cultivable land, except in a few less densely populated areas, is
already cultivated, the latter could cause problems if not watched.
7.19      Control of environmental damage inevitably suffered during the
war. Denudation of the natural woodland, overgrazing of the already
cleared areas, and overcropping of the arable areas due to demographic
pressure, can only get worse if further measures are not immediately taken
to control erosion, establish fuelwood forests and improve grazing
management. Destruction of the savanna woodland is already serious and if
not checked, the last of it could totally disappear within a decade. A
rural afforestation project is currently under preparation for possible
Bank financing, but other measures are necessary including expanded
contouring programs and reintroduction of the communal grazing veldt
management schemes. These may be handled by an extension Project currently
under preparation for IFAD funding.
7.20      With respect to insecticides, fungicides and herbicides, the wide
spectrum and non-biodegradable content of some of these, particularly in
cotton and tobacco, needs to be kept under review. In any case more
farmers would be encouraged to 'scout' their crops to avoid unnecessary
application of sprays harmful to the environment. Scouting is already done
by some farmers, and with a major extension program could be spread more
widely with economic as well as biological benefits. The Research and
Specialist Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture together with
Agritex, AFC, the fertilizer/pesticide companies and other agencies or
ministries concerned, should liaise more closely on these subjects to
formulate a policy of environmental protection. It is proposed that the
agricultural economist responsible for implementing the monitoring and
evaluation program should, with the help of these agencies, specifically
address the potential pesticide problem as part of his monitoring duties.
VIII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a) that the AFC Policy Statement at Annex 1 of the Staff Appraisal
Report already adopted by the AFC Board, would not be amended
without the approval of IDA (para 2.26);
(b) that interest rates to all farmers would be at or above the
commercial prime lending rate, except that for seasonal lending
in Communal Areas a rate of 4% and 2% below the prime rate in
Project Years 1 and 2 respectively and prime rate thereafter



- 43 -
would apply, that AFC would ensure that clear notification is
given to sub-borrowers in Communal Areas concerning the scheduled
increase in interest rates, that changes in the lending terms and
conditions of AFC under the Small Farm Credit Scheme would not be
made without prior approval of IDA and that the interest rates,
the lending terms and the areas in which such interest rates and
lending terms are applicable would be reviewed annually by the
Government and IDA and may be adjusted if necessary to ensure the
efficient operation of AFC's lending program (paras 4.05, 4.08,
4.09 and 5.10);
(c) that IDA would be consulted, prior to the appointment
of computer consultants and acquisition of computer equipment,
that the computer technical assistance staff and consultants
would be hired on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and
that computer equipment would be procured in a manner
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12);
(d) that the positions of General Manager, Deputy General Manager,
Assistant General Manager having responsibility for SFCS, or
their equivalents, and Agricultural Economist would be filled
throughout the life of the project with qualified and experienced
staff, that the Borrower would consult with the Association on
the qualifications and experience of such staff prior to
appointment, and, in the event that these positions are financed
out of the proceeds of the credit, that the terms and conditions
of employment to fill these positions are acceptable to IDA
(paras 4.14 and 4.17);
(e) that AFC would review its remuneration package annually and that
Government and AFC would make necessary adjustments in the
remuneration package to ensure that AFC is able to recruit and
retain its staff (para 4.14);
(f) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined (paras
4.26-4.28);
(g) that AFC would continue to appoint independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and that audited accounts together with the
auditor report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
end of the fiscal year (para 4.32);
(h) that Government and IDA would review the reasons for any subsidy
payable in excess of reasonable forecasts (para. 5.18); and
(i) that Government would ensure the allocation of foreign exchange
required to support the input demand of the Small Farm Credit
Scheme (para 6.21).



- 44 -
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) the Borrower has announced the interest rates for the first
year of Project implementation including notification that
the rate for seasonal lending in Communal Areas is scheduled
to increase over the Project implementation period (para
4.05);
(b) a Subsidiary Agreement acceptable to IDA has been executed
by the Borrower and AFC (para 4.25);
8.03      A condition of disbursement against buildings, vehicles, and
office furniture and equipment would be the preparation of written
procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.28).
8.04      Subject to the above conditions, this Project is suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 27.9 million (US$30.4 million equivalent) on standard
terms.



kdN[Nt A I
Page 1
-  45  -
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Statement of Policy
The Statement, as amended from time to time, defines the policies
which shall apply to the activities and operations of the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation".
1. OBJECTIVES
1.1 The Corporation is a parastatal organization established by
statute under the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act (Chapter
101) to promote and assist the agricultural industry in Zimbabwe
by making available credit for a wide range of development and
agricultural purposes. In pursuance of this aim, the Corporation
makes available short term, medium-term and long-term loans to
eligible individuals, companies, farmers' associations,
cooperative agricultural unions, companies and societies as well
as to informal groups of farmers.
1.2 In carrying out its functions, the Corporation observes
Government's agricultural and financial policies.  It aims to keep
the cost of the credit it makes available to farmers as low as
possile while maintaining comparability with other interest rates
in the country and at the same time meeting its statutory
obligations to cover its annual operating and financial costs,
adequate provisions against losses as well as to build up reserves
adequate to maintain its financial integrity and soundness.
2. LOANS
2.1 Loans are made for the purpose of:
(a)  crop production including land preparation, the purchase of
inputs, harvesting, transportation and marketing expenses;
(b) general farm development including fencing, construction of
farm buildings, dips, dams, boreholes, irrigation, livestock
and livestock facilities, establishment of plantation and
semi-permanent crops, bush clearing, firebreaks and
establishment and maintenance of pastures;
(c) farm machinery and equipment, including tractors, combine
harvesters, farm trucks;
(d) farm and farm business purchases, including improvements and
movables; and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) other items or operations that could be established as
relating to farming or agricultural industries.
3. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR ASSISTANCE FROM THE CORPORATION
3.1  The Corporation is conscious of its obligation to maintain its
credibility and integrity as a financial institution; it carefully
evaluates the risks attaching to each application for assistance,
and lends on the basis of sound lending policies.
3.2  From its considerable experience in the field of agricultural
credit, the Corporation has developed well defined and proven
criteria in respect of loan applications, which are summarized as
follows:
3.2.1  The Corporation must be satisfied that there is a genuine
need for the credit applied for and that the proposed
farming enterprise or programme is viable and will enable
the borrower to meet his obligations to repay the loan and
interest thereon. AFC must be reasonably satisfied that
the borrower is capable of carrying out the proposed
programme and is not likely to be dispossessed of his
tenancy during the currency of the loan.
3.2.2  Where the applicant has previous credit record with the
Corporation, his past performance will be taken into
ducount i. assessing his ability to use the credit
etfectively. Should a small-scale borrower or group of
borrowers default on repayments of previous loans, the
Corporation would normally refuse further assistance unless
the Corporation is satisfied that the default was due to
circumstances beyond the borrower's control (e.g. drought).
3.2.3  The Corporation will normally take adequate security where
these are available. Where securities are not available in
the communal farming areas the Corporation will cover its
risks by following the criteria and procedures described in
Section 7.
3.2.4  The Corporation normally expects the borrower to make a
reasonable contribution to the farming programme applied
for.
4. FINANCIAL POLICIES
4.1  The Corporation aims at all times to honour its obligations when
due.
4.2  The interest charged on Corporation loans is determined by the
Agricultural Finance Board and is consistent with the overall
Government interest rate policy for the agricultural sector as
adjusted from time to time.



ANNEX 1
- 47 -                           Page 3
4.3 The Corporation determines the level of adequate provisions
against potential losses in accordance with  prudent accounting
policies, and builds up its reserves to a level consistent with
sound financial practice.  Subject to the limitations provided
under legislation law, annual surpluses are appropriated to the
Corporation's general reserve.
4.4 The Corporation maintains a satisfactory relationship between the
maturities of its obligations and those of the loans it provides.
5. QUALITY OF SERVICE: LENDER AND BORROWER OBLIGATIONS
5.1 In the interest of improving efficiency, the Corporation
periodically reviews its loan granting, loan disbursement,
accounting and administrative procedures to ensure proper
information collection and analysis and timeliness of loan
disbursements and collections. Every effort is made to increase
the operational staff/borrower ratio for effective credit
supervision.
5.2  Borrowers are required to meet their obligations when due.  They
are required to keep in repair and good working condition, insure
and keep insured, the assets constituting security for the
Corporation's loans.
5.3 For supervisory, loan monitoring and evaluation purposes, the
Corporation, its agents or servants, are empowered by Section 64
of its statute to enter upon a borrower's land in order to ensure
the loan has been properly applied and to inspect the assets and
improvements mortgaged to the Corporation.
6. MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATION, STAFFING AND TRAINING
6.1 The Corporation endeavours to develop and maintain a well-balanced
staff and management team capable of advising on appropriate
lending policies, evaluating loan applications, assisting
enterprises in the formulation of their financing requirements and
supervising their execution.
6.2 To improve the quality and collectability of loans, and to support
sustained improvements on credit advisory services, the
Corporation will establish and maintain a credit training
programme necessary to ensure adequate staff capabilities. Such
training will include all levels of Corporation staff.
7. LOANS TO SMALL FARMERS
7.1 To provide assistance to small-scale farmers in the former
Purchase Lands and Tribal Trust Lands, Goverrnent has established
the Small Farm Credit Scheme (SFCS).  The Scheme is administered
by a separate Division of the Corporation.
7.2 In processing the loan applications under the Scheme, the Division
adheres to the Corporation's broad policies as set out under 1 to



ANNEX 1
- 48 -                          Page 4
6 above. More specific considerations, criteria and procedures
related to SFCS lending are summarized below.
7.2.1  Procedures
In order to assist in overcoming some of the administrative
problems of dealing with very large numbers of borrowers
often in geographically remote areas the Corporation
encourages small farmer borrowers to form themselves into
small credit groups. Apart from assisting the
administrative aspects of loan granting and disbursement
these groups are expected to generate necessary self
disciplines in such areas as suitable client selection,
correct and timely marketing of produce, loan repayment and
defaulter action.  The Corporation encourages such groups
to accept joint and several liability for loans, in order
to provide group responsibility and disciplines but
reserves the right to proceed with the implementatiuon of
this policy at a rate consistent with the performance of
such groups.
7.2.2  In order to service the large number of small farmers
requiring credit and also to meet the levels of
understanding of peasant sector borrowers loan application,
processing, accounting and disbursement systems will be
kept as simple as possible within the requirements of sound
credit administration and financial control.
7.2.3  Selection of Areas for Assistance under the Scheme
Prior to accepting applications from any particular area,
the Corporation carries out, in consultation with the staff
of Devag, a careful investigation to assess viability of
the typical technical package and farming pattern n the
area concerned. This is done by formulating hectare
budgets and farm models for the area, taking into account
the ecological factors (rainfall, soil type, etc.) and
probable yields for the crop package proposed. The
Corporation also assesses the availability of technical
assistance to thefarmers, existing conmunications and
roads, availability of inputs and facilities for marketing
of crop production before accepting applications for the
area under consideration. Thus the Corporation extends its
assistance to new areas only if it is satisfied regarding
viability of the packages to be financed, the availability
of marketing and technical assistance facilities, and would
have complete freedom to select the area for its financial
assistance.
7.2.4  Lending Criteria
The Corporation will apply its normal criteria for
selection of borrowers under the Scheme. In assessing the
applications from small farmers, the Corporation satisfies



- 49 -                       ANNEX 1
Page 5
itself that the proposed farming programme is viable not
only in terms of repaying the loan and its interest, but
also of providing a cash income for the farmer and his
family after they have provided for their normal
subsistence needs.
7.2.5 In view of the general lack of security in the small farmer
sector the Corporation will, except in unusual seasonal or
other circumstances, closely monitor loan repayments and
will not grant further advances to individuals or credit
groups, in the case of repayment default.
7.2.6 Monitoring
The Corporation will carefully monitor the
progress of the small farmer programme in order to make any
policy, staffing, and procedure changes on the basis of
sound knowledge.



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                         Page 1
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
A. Monitoring Data Check List
I.     Major Objective:
To aid efficient management, and to provide a minimum level of
physical achievement data to the donor.
II.     Loans
1.   Number of loans by loan type (seasonal or medium-term) by
ownership category (communal, individual, communal groups,
Purchase Area) and by Natural Region approved and disbursed
during the quarter, and cumulative for the year to data.
2.   Average size of loans annually under the above categories,
cumulative, including and excluding irrigation.
3.   Hectarage by major crop of seasonal loans made annually.
4.   Number of group loans approved (joint and several liability)
quarterly.
5.   Value of medium-term  loans by major category quarterly.
6.   Estimate of input quantities, especially fertilizer, actually
delivered to distribution points quarterly.
7.   Number of loan applications refused quarterly.
III.      Repayment
1.   Arrears at end of quarter (debts still owed as percentage of
loans disbursed) by loan type, ownership category and Natural
Region.
2.   Brief qualitative report on marketing and transport problems by
area with brief assessment of its affect on repayment.
3.   Total size of small and large farm portfolios quarterly.
IV.       Financial
1.   Audited Accounts - annual.
2.   Updated AFC borrowing chart annually (source of borrowing,
interest rate, repayment period).
3.   Updated principal national interest rate chart annually (treasury
bills, savings deposits, funding societies, commercial banks).



ANNEX 2
- 51 -                            Page 2
V.      Civil Works
1.   Building progress recorded against targets.
VI.       Training
1.   Progress reports on staff training against pre-set targets.
B. Project Evaluation Check List
I.     Major Objectives:
1.   to assess the type of farmer being covered by the program;
2.   to understand the constraints faced by him with respect to the
delivery of the credit itself and the support services;
3.   to assess the impact of credit on those easily measured
indicators that might reasonably be taken as either proxies for,
or indirect contributors to, income.
II.      Area Selection and Sample Size:
The two areas already covered by the Department of Land
Management surveys would appear to be suitable areas since they
represent the two most important credit areas under the Project
covering approximately 30% of the anticipated clients. The
present sample size of 150 per area would be adequate as long as
sufficient non-credit farmers are included. This may be problem
since the sampling has not been random. It is proposed that a
few intensive case studies be used if necessary to support the
more superficial analysis on the large sample. A decision on
whether the case studies are needed should be taken once the type
of analysis that the sample survey can produce has become
apparent.
III.      Timing:
Data collection would be carried out in each of the three project
years. This would be inadequate to discern trends but would
allow limited farm level analysis and would be a base for future
post-project studies.
IV.      Data Needs:
Data collection needs should be related to the type of analysis
tabulations envisaged.
With respect to the type of farmer receiving assistance and the
constraints faced, the following is a suggested outline of a
selection of useful indicators to be obtained for with and
without credit farmers:-



ANNEX 2
- 52 -                             Page 3
-family size
-cultivated hectares per household
-livestock numbers per household
-number of oxen per household
-amount of remitted funds from urban areas
-number of extension visits annually per household
-distance to nearest collection center
-percentage of master farmers
-years of formal schooling of household heads
-percentage of women de facto heads of household
-percentage of households who are members of cooperative
society
-percentage of households who are members of a savings club
-percentage of households who have made other borrowings of over
Z$50 during the year
-statistical distribution of the final dates of arrival of input
packages
-statistical distribution of final dates of delivery of last
crop (cotton and maize)
-percentage of farmers who acknowledge that they could have
obtained inputs other than through AFC
-percentage of farmers acknowledging a problem in cashing
marketing board payment cheques.
With respect to the impact of credit, the following is a
suggested check list to guide tabulations for with and without
credit farmers.
V.     Adoption
-percentage of farmers growing cotton by credit area
-percentage of farmers growing maize by credit area
-mean cotton hectarage estimate, this season, previous season
-mean maize hectarage estimate, this season, previous season
-quantity of fertilizer delivered to area and percentage of
farmers putting chemical fertilizer on at least i ha of maize
and/or cotton (partly from monitoring)
-quantity of insecticide delivered to area and percentage of
farmers using insecticide on maize and/or cotton (partly from
monitoring)
-percentage of farmers using purchased improved maize seed
-percentage of farmers adopting selected innovative practices
for the first time.
-percentage of credit farmers acknowledging possible alternative
sources of credit if AFC credit had not been available
-mean kg of cotton and maize marketed this and last season (from
MIarketing Board data).
These check lists are intended only as guides and would require
further review in the light of the existing survey methodology
and AFC's and researchers understanding of the farm systems
involved.



-53-                                ANNEX 2
Page 4
In addition to the above check lists, any obvious proxy's for
income increases would be of use, although these could never give
precise trends over such a short time period.
In addition to the listed variables, most of which could
relatively easily be obtained from the current survey sample, in
depth case studies on a small number of loanees and non-loanees
(say 3 of each) may be of value to try to get nore directly at
income changes arising from credit.
The check lists have been prepared with seasonal credit to
Communal Area farmers in mind. Similar data could be collected
by credit officers from a sample of say 50 APA farmers.
There are few examples in Africa of evaluation surveys that have
not been wildly ambitious. The emphasis under this project would
be on simplicity, if necessary at the expense of statistical
significance and proven causality. With credit, the possibility
of convincingly demonstrating causality are, in any case, remote
even with large surveys. The more modest objective of the
evaluation surveys under this project would be to emphasize the
assessment of the rate of adoption believed to be (but probably
not proven to be) associated with credit, and to get some
judgement on (but again probably no proof of) the extent to which
a true credit need existed. Even this will present considerable
measurement and interpretation problems.



ANNEX 3
-54 -                         Page 1
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Proposed AFC Crop Packages for Communal Areas ( ha pack)
Present:                                     Proposed:
Cotton:  (all Natural Regions)    Z$                                Z_
150 kg Compound 'L'                 28.7    125 kg Compound 'S'  22.50 1/
50 kg Ammonium Nitrate              9.36    25 kg Urea              6.24
10 kg 'Albar' Seed                  2.00    10 kg 'Albar' Seed   2.00 2/
1 Insecticide packs, consisting of:          1 Insecticide pack consisting
of:
500 ml Synthetic Pyrethroid          9.00   400 ml Fenvalerate    8.00 3/
400 ml Dimethoate                    3.00   400 ml Dimethoate        3.00
2 kg Carbaryl                        9.80   2 kg Carbaryl WP.        9.58
1 kg Endosulphan(Thiodan) 50% WP  6.00   2 Litres Endosulphan  9.20 3/
(Thiodan) MO.         9.20 3/
5 Litres of raw mollases             2.00   5 Litres Molasses        2.00
1 Tray Batteries (15 cells)          5.00  15 Batteries for ULV
Spray                   5.00 5/
74.43                           67.52
1/ Compound 'S' is slightly cheaper than the presently recommended
Compound 'L' it also contains 4% less Potash - Potash being of
doubtful value in most of the CA soils - and more nitrogen.
2/ 10 kg of seed is adequate for i ha.
3/ Fenvalerate, whicn is a syntnetic Pyrethroid, was recommended by
the Cotton Research Institute as more appropriate than others.
4/ Endosulphan (Thiodan) in the form of a miscible oil (MO) which is
preferred in
ULV sprayers, wettable powders tend to clog the sprayers.
5/ 15 batteries should be more than sufficient for the ULV sprayer
on .5 ha.
Maize: (Natural Region II)
150 kg Compound 'D'                 25.20  100 kg Compound 'P'   17.86 1/
100 kg Ammonium Nitrate             18.72   75 kg Urea              18.72 2/
10 kg SR.52 seed                    9.75   10 kg SR.52 Seed         9.75
1 kg Trichlorfon (Dipterex)                 1 kg Trichlorfon
2.5%                         1.00           (Dipterex) 2.5% 1.00
54.67                           47.33
1/ Compound 'P' was agreed by the staff at the Research and Special
Services Div. of the MOA to be a more appropriate Compound for the
CAs - it contains no Potash, more Nitrogen and more Phosphorus.
Field trials would have to be carried out to monitor Potash levels
in the CAs, but until such time that Potash is shown to be
limiting, it is not necessary to include it in the pack.
2/ Both packages contain the same amount of N (69 kg) but Urea is more
concentrated.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Proposed AFC Crop Packages for Communal Areas (contd.)
(  ha pack)
Present:                                   Proposed:
Maize:   (Natural Region III)
2 x 50 kg Compound 'D'             16.80  100 kg Compound 'P'            17.86
1 x 50 kg Ammonium Nitrate          9.36   50 kg Urea                    12.48
1 kg Trichlorfon (Dipterex)                  1 kg Trichlorfon
2.5%                          1.00           (Dipterex)             1.00
10 kg R.201 seed.                   2.00    10 kg/ha R.201 seed           2.00
36.18                                33.34
Groundnuts: (N.R.s II and III)
150 kg single Superphosphate   17.55  100 double Superphosphate 23.04
50 kg Gypsum                       1.00   50 Gypsum                      1.00
50 kg Seed (Spanish variety)  20.00   35 kg Seed                        14.00
38.55     1 kg Mancozeb 80% WP         3.00
1 unit of Inoculant         1.00
42.04
As both Leaf Spot (Cercospora spp) and Leaf Blotch (Didymosphaera sp)
are serious diseases of this crop in Zimbabwe, it would be unwise
to supply a crop pack that did not contain the means of controlling
these diseases.  The inoculant at Z$1/ha is a cheap price to ensure
higher Rhizobium assisted yields.
Oriental Tobacco: (N.R.s III and IV) 0.50 ha pack.
Seed: 5 gm @ $2.00/20 gm                                    0.50
Fertilizer: 10 kg Compound 'S'                              2.25
2.5 kg Sodium Nitrate                                       0.65
75 kg 'A'                                                  15.12
25 kg Dolomite                                              0.50
Chemicals:
Seedbeds: 75 Neotox                                         1.23
0.75 Zineb                                       1.50
71.50 ml Azodrin 40%                             1.90
2.50 litres EDB                                  7.25
0.75 litres Dimethoate 40%                       4.00
1.13 kg Mancozer (Dithane) M45                   2.75
1.50 kg Copper Oxycholoride 85% WP               3.62
Field Chemicals:
0.60 litres Azodrin                              5.00
0.36 litres Chlorpyrifos 48%                    2.88
1.00 litres Dimethoate 40%                       1.75
50.98



ANNEX 3
- 56 -                       Page 3
Proposed AFC Crop Packages for Communal Areas (contd.) 1/
( ha pack)
Present:                                   Proposed:
Burley Tobacco: (N.R.s II and III)
400 kg Compound 'C'               85.76   300 kg Compound 'B'          63.42 2/
150 kg Ammonium Nitrate           28.08    150 kg Ammonium Nitrate 28.00
5 gm Seed; Banket Al.            2.00      5 kg Seed Banket Al        2.00
20 litres 4.5% EDB              160.00      6 litres EDB 4.5%        17.28 3/
2 kg Karathane +G49              1.00      2 kg Karathane +
400 ml Dimethoate                  2.26         G49.50 ml               1.00 4/
0.5 litres Chlorpyrifos            3.64   300 ml Dimethoate             2.00 5/
EDB. Applicator (optimal)  0.72    250 ml Chlorpyrifos             2.00 6/
1 Seed bed packs:
4 kg Compound 'B'                0.72   Seed bed pack consisting of:
250 gm Neotox                      4.00      8 kg Compound 'B'          2.00 7/
1 kg Copper Oxychloride         2.41      90 gm Neotox               2.00 8/
0.5 kg Dithane M45                 2.28   500 gm Copper Oxychloride2.00 9/
292.15                              121.70
1/ These recommendations would only hold until such time as
conclusive results of adaptive field trials in the Communal Areas
showed the need for modification.
2/ The use of Compound 'B' has been recommended before for burley
tobacco, it is cheaper than 'C' contains only 2% less N and 1.5%
more S, otherwise they are similar.
3/ As 3 litres of EDB are sufficient for 0.5 ha of tobacco, it is
difficult to understand why 20 litres were recommended.
4/ 2 kg of Karathane are sufficient for i ha crop pack.
5/ 300 ml of Dimethoate should be sufficient for 0.50 ha.
6/ 250 ml Chlorpyrifos is sufficient for 0.5 ha.
7/ Under the present recommendations, the farmer would have to buy a
separate issue of Compound 'B' to put on his seed bed as he only
has 'C ' for his crop.
8/ Neotox comes packed in 500 gm packs but 180 gm is sufficient to
treat 1 ha of crop.
9/ 500 gm of Copper Oxychloride would be sufficient to handle fungus
problems in the small half hectare seed bed plot and it is
considered that Dithane M45 would not be necessary as an extra
fungicide.
10/ Dithane has been left out of the Communal crop pack.
11/ The 8 kg of Compound 'B' in this case would have to be a special
purchase as the main pack calls for Compound 'C '.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Selected List of Materials and Working Papers Available - Project File
A.   Selected Reports on Sub-Sector
A.1 Peasant Sector Credit Plan for Zimbabwe. Whitsun Foundation,
Small Farm Credit Project, February 1980.
A.2 Economic Review of the Agricultural Industry of Zimbabwe,
Agricultural Marketing Authority, 1980.
A.3 Agricultural Marketing Authority Commodity Situation and Outlook
Reports for Cotton and Grain 1980/81.
A.4 Five-Year Program of Development in the Public Sector, Ministry
of Finance, January 1979.
A.5 Growth with Equity, An Economic Policy Statement. Government
Printer, February 1981.
B.   Selected Reports relating to Project
R.1 Preparation Report Draft, AFC, April 1981.
B.2 Small Farm Credit Project Supplementary Report, July 1981.
B.3 AFC Annual Reports, 1979, 1980, 1981.
B.4  AFC Small Farm Credit Scheme Survey, March 1981.
B.5 The African Loan and Development Trust, History Organisation and
Policies.
B.6 Silveira House, Annual Report, 1980.
B.7 Minutes of the 'Wind-up Meeting' between Government and KFW
Appraisal Mission.
B.8 World Bank Aide Memoire, Small Farm Credit Project Appraisal,
September 29, 1981.
C. Project Working Papers/Tables
C.1 AFC Projected Balance Sheets 1980/81 to 1984/85; AFC Projected
Income and Expenditure Accounts 1980/81 to 1984/85; AFC Projected
Cash Flow 1981/82 to 1984/85.
C.2 Background Data on Agricultural Sector prepared by Appraisal
Mission, November 1981.
C.3 1981-82 Prescribed Prices for Major Zimbabwe Crop Commodities.
C.4 List of APA Areas for Map 16141.






ZDIBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECI'
AFC Summarized Balainee Sheets - As at 31st March 1/
(Z$ Millions)
1977                  1978                    1979                   1980                 1981
Amount        7.       Amount        %         Amount       %         Amount       7.       Amtoult      7.
ASSETS
FarminR Loans
Long and Medium-Term                 62.1       64.1       64.0       60.4        67.2       57.2         69.8      53.0        70.6       45.3
Short-Term                           33.8      34.8        40.2       38.0        48.7       41.6        60.2       45.7        81.0       51.9
Sub-Total             95.9       98.9       104.2       98.4       115.9       98.8       130.0       98.7       151.6       97.2
Farm Properties                       0.4       0.4          1.0       0.9         0.6        0.5          0.5       0.3          1.0       0.6
Fixed Assets                          0.5        0.5         0.5       0.5          0.5        0.4         0.6        0.5        0.6        0.4
Investmtents                           -          -           -          -                -                 -          -         2.1         1.3
Net Current Assets                    0.2       0.2         0.2        0.2         0.4        0.3         0.7        0.5         0.7        0.5
97.0     100.0       105.9      100.0       117.4      100.0       131.8      100.0       156.0      100.0
l.IABILITIES
Funds From Governmtent
Long-Term                            50.9       52.5        54.0      51.0        57.3       48.8        55.0       41.7        57.0       36.6
Short-Tern                           30.3      31.2        35.2       33.2        44.9       38.3        49.7       37.7        52.0       33.3
Sub-Total             81.2       83.7        89.2       84.2       102.2       87.1       104.7       79.4       109.0       69.9
Funds From Other Sources
Lonig-Term                            8.4       8.7          7.6       7.2          7.4       6.3         6.7        5.1        13.7        8.8
Short-Term                            1.3       1.3         2.8        2.6         2.4        2.0         4.0        3.0        14.3        9.1
Sub-Total               9.7      10.0        10.4        9.8         9.8        8.3        10.7        8.1        28.0       17.9
Free Capital and Reserves             6.1       6.3         6.3        6.0          5.4       4.6        16.4       12.5        19.0       12.2
97.0     100.0       105.9      100.0       117.4      100.0       131.8      100.0       156.0      100.0
1/ All figures in current ternms.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PFBJECT
AFC Sumaxrized Income and Expenditure Accounts for the Year Ended 31st March 1
(Z$O00)
1977                   1978                    1979                   1980                      1981
Amount       I         Amount       X          Amount       %          Amount       7          Amount       7
INCOME
Interest Receivable              5,246       96.3        5,782       96.2        6,336       95.6        8,106       93.6        9,506       89.8
Other Income                       203        3.7          231        3.8          295        4.4          555        6.4        1,081       10.2
5,449     100.0        6,013      100.0         6,631     100.0         8,661      100.0      10,587      100.0
EXPENDITURE
Interest Payable                 3,698       67.8        4,171       69.4        4,358       65.7        5,081       58.7        5,850       55.3
Bad and Doubtful Debta             251        4.7          418        7.0        1,750       26.4          738        8.5          960        9.1
Administration Expenses          1,191       21.9        1,180       19.6        1,372       20.7        1,961       22.6        3,031       28.6
Depreciation                        35        0.6           39        0.6           47        0.7           59        0.7           87        0.8      1
5,175       95.0       5,808        96.6        7,527      113.5        7,839       90.5        9,928       93.8     @
Surplus (Deficit) For the Year   274          5.0          205        3.4       (  896 )  ( 13.5 )         822        9.5          659        6.2      1
5,449     100.0        6,013       100.0       6,631       100.0        8,661      100.0       10,587      100.0
Income From Sale of Office Building                                                                                              1,994
NOTES
1. Interest payable as 7 of interest received                     70.5                    72.1                    68.8                    62.7                    61.5
2. Intcrest receivable as % of average outstanding loans           5.7                     5.8                     5.8                     6.6                     6.8
3. Interest payable as % of average outstanding borrowings    4.3                          4.4                     4.1                     4.5                     4.4
4. Administration expenises as % of total year and assets          1.23                    1.11                    1.17                    1.49                    1.94
5. Bad and doubtful debts as S of average loans outstanding   0.27                         0.42                    1.59                    0.60                    0.68
6. Surplus (deficit) as X of average loans outstanding             0.30                    0.21                  ( 0.81 )                  0.67                    0.47
7. Surplus (deficit) as % of average equity and reserves           4.6                     3.4                   ( 15.2 )                  7.5                     3.7       t
_ A fus cra
1/ All f igures in current terms.



- 60 -
Table A-3
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ 000)
Quarterly                    Cumulative
1982/83   September                  3,100                           3,100
December                  1,700                           4,800
March                     1,600                           6,400
June                      1,600                           8,000
1983/84   September                  4,500                          12,500
December                  2,600                          15,100
March                       800                          15,900
June                      1,900                          17,800
1984/85   September                  5,800                          23,600
December                  3,100                          26,700
March                     1,200                          27,900
June                      2,400                          30,300
1985/86   September                    100                          30,400
July 13, 1982



RVIL F8181 CREDIT P.1
Caveretent Proetted .Ash Flow
2(110O)
1        2        3         4        5         6        7        8         9        10       11        12       13        14       15        16       17        18       19        20       21    22-50      Ibtal
Prole t Year
Cvsh loX (c
I     dt Crldt                     550o     6800      8700                                                                                                                                                                                         2 0O3
ItfW Credit                         7CO       9CO     110                                                                                                                                                                                           2700
Intemtst                            740      1660     2830     23        2830     2830      2830     2830     2830      2830     2830      2830      2830     2830      280    _2830       2830     2830      2830     28.0      2830    82070   138240
6940     9360    12630      2830    2830       2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830      2830     2830    82070   161940
CasW Outflow
Project C(ts                       8200    10200    13000                                                                                                                                                                                          31403
ID  CrA lt-    toest Fee            91        60       22                                                                                                                                                                                           173
11ID  Cwedlt-&-vlce Charg           157       158      157       158      157      158       157      158       157      158       156      155       153      152       150      149       147      146       144      143       139     1990      5199
Kfo-Crcm tlt Int-ot                   7        28       42        54       54       54        54       54        54       54        52       49        46       43        41       38        35       32        29       27        25      110       982
11TP  Creit Artloatilt                                                                                                             210      210      210       210      210       210      210       210      210       210       630    18270    21f(5
K1W C-dit A54rtizatio0 n                                         _         _        _         _        _        _         _        135      135       135      135       135      135       135      135       135      135       135     1215      270)
8455    10446    13221       212      211       212      211       212      211       212      553       549      544       540      536      532       527      423       518       515      929    21585    61454
Net Cash Inflw4 (Outflee)            (1515)   (1036)    (591)    2618       2619     2618      2619     2618      2619     2618      2277     2281      2286     2293     2294      2298     2303      2307      2312     2315      19(1    60485   1OOC86                N
baslative rash Infleow (Outf1)    (1515)   (2601)   (3192)    (574)    2045          4663      7282     9900    12519    15137    17414    19695    21981    24271    26565    28863    31166    33474    35785    38100    40001   100486   100486
Note
Eastittl Sublsidy Puyet to         AFC duig Projmect
Iople'eotati(n                    (4466)   (6020)   (7626)
hAost 18, 1982



ZLI1 E
SiAL FARM CRED1T PR=JECT
AFC Subsidy Requirenents
(Z$ 000)
SFC5 ~  ~      ~       ~      ------ COXHERCIAL ~
1982/83          1983/84           1984/85            1982/83            1983/84            1984/85           1982/83            1983/84            1984/85
L"on Portfolio (AverzCe)    25,8M3             40,0)4           55,225            171,451            194,483            220,549           197,299            234,567            275,774
lnterest RecivahLb           3,153 (12.20)    4,730 (11.80)    6,628 (12.00)    22,289 (13.00)    25,283 (13.00)    28,671 (13.00)    25,442 (12.90)    30,0i3 (12.79)    35,299 (12.80)
AdlnListrative Expenses       2,764 (10.70)    3,385 ( 8.45)    4,143 ( 7.50)       2,596 ( 1.51)      2,878 ( 1.48)      3,192 ( 1.45)      5,360 ( 2.72)     6,263 ( 2.67)      7,335 ( 2.66)
Bad P!bts 1/                  2,154 ( 8.33)    2,946 ( 7.35)    3,979 ( 7.21)         748 ( 0.44)        654 ( 0.34)        746 ( 0.34)     2,902 ( 1.47)      3,600 ( 1.53)      4,725 ( 1.71)
Intorast on Fixed Jan          7A1 ( 2.87)    1,660 ( 4.14)    2,836 ( 5.13)                                                                  741 ( 0.38)      1,660 ( 0.71)      2,836 ( 1.03)
Capital
Ccer of Capital               1,960 ( 7.58)    2,759 ( 6.88)    3,296 ( 5.97)    16,770 ( 9.78)    19,990 (10.28)    23,530 (10.67)    18,730 ( 9.49)    22,749 ( 9.70)    26,826 ( 9.73)
Sub-Total                     7,619 (29.48)   10,750 (26.82)   14,254 (25.81)    20,114 (11.73)    23,522 (12.10)    27,468 (12.46)    27,733 (14.06)    34,272 (14.61)    41,722 (15.13)
(    Wdy)/SurpllUs           (/,466)(17.28)   (6,020)(15.02)   (7,626)(13.81)       2,175 ( 1.27)      1,761 ( 0.90)     1,203 ( 0.54)    (2,291)( 1.16)    (4,259)( 1.82)    (6,423)( 2.33)
1/ Bai debts are equal to 10% of actual lending during the year.                                                                                                                                      >
2/  Prov'ided under the Project.
N(7E: Percentages in parenthesis are of average loan portfolio.
August 15, 1982






- 63 -
Table B-l
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Hectare Budget for Maize: Natural Region II
(at 1981/82 Prices)
(1)                                      &2)
Basic farmer (1 ha.)                    Full recommendations.
no supplied inputs                              ( 1 ha.)
Yield (kg/ha)  1,000  1/                                   3,300  8/
Returns (Z$)      120                                        396  -
Costs (Z$):
Seed ( SR52 )      19.50                          22.13   2/
Fertilizer            -    3/                     73.16    /
Insecticide          -                             2.00
Packing             2.03                           8.93   6/
Transport           8.00                          38.70   7/
Totals: 29.53                         144.92
Gross Margin              90.47                         251.08
Increment Costs over (1)                                115.39
Incremental Benefits over (1)                          276.00
Benefit:  Cost ratio                                      2.4
No. of mandays/ha            64                             90
Net Return/manday          1.41                           2.80
1/  To obtain a yield of 1 ton, the farmer would have to keep his crop well
weeded if he was not applying any inputs.
2/ With the full recommendations, seed treatment would be Z$2.63
per ha. for Aldrin.
3/ Kraal manure has been excluded for comparative budgeting since it is
considered that few farmers have access to the 5 ton/ha of Kraal manure
that is necessary.
4/ 200kg/ha of Compound 'P' + 150 kg/ha of Urea.
5/ Two treatments x 1 kg of 2.5% Trichlorfon (Dipterex) for stalk borer.
6/  11 bags/ton @ 96,/bag - GMB refund 74.7c leaving AFC to finance 20.3c/bag.
7/ AFC include transport at an average of 80C/bag together with Z$1.30/bag for
fertilizer transport.
8/ The Research & Special Services Staff consider that with the prescribed
fertilizer, Pesticide Program, TTL's on NR II6 land should be able to produce
4,000 kg/ha but actual average achievement has been reduced in this budget.



- 64 -                           Table B-2
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Hectare Budget for Maize: Natural Region III 1/
(1)                                    (2)
- Basic farmer, no supplied            Full package of inputs
inputs.    ( 1 ha )                      ( 1 ha )
Yield (kg/ha)   700                                     2,500
Returns (Z$ )2/  84                                       300
Costs (Z$):
Seed (R201)    9.75                               12.38  3/
Fertilizer       -                                60.68
Insecticides    -                                  2.00  4/
Packing         1.62                               6.70
Transport       6.40  5/                          25.40  6/
Totals:   17.77                              107.16
Gross Margin       66.23                             192.86
Incremental Costs Over (1)                            89.39
Incremental Benefits Over (1)                        216.0
Benefit : Cost Ratio                                   2.42
No. of mandays/ha        60                               80
Net Returns/manday Z$ 1.10                              2.41
1/ Kraal manure has not been included since it is not always available
to many of the farmers.
2/ Returns have been calculated at the 1981/82 maize price ('Class 'A').
3/ With full recommendatiotl3, seed treatment would include Z$ 2.63/ha
for Aldrin.
4/  Two treatments x 1 kg of 2.5% Trichlorfon (Dipterex) for stalk borer.
5/  Transport is costed at Z$.80c/sack
6/ Transport in this case covers Z$.80c/sack plus Z$ 1.30/bag for fertilizer
transport. The ferlizer assumed is 200 kg compound 'P' + 100 kg Urea.



- 65 -
Table B-3
HECTARE BUDGET FOR COTTON
(;981/82 prices)
Natural Region II
Traditional ( 1 ha)          Recommended (1 ha)
Yield:  (kg/ha)                    500 1/                       1,500
Returns:  (Z$) 2/                  190                            570
Costs (Z$)
Seed (Albar)                 4.00                           4.00
Fertilizer                    -                            70.00 3/
Insecticide                   -                            35.00 4/
Packing                       1.86                          5.58 5/
Transport                    12.00                         45.00 6/
Totals                 17.86                        159.58
Gross Margin                     172.14                        410.42
Incremental Costs over (1)                                     141.72
Incremental Benefits over (1)                                   380.00
benefit : Cost Ratio                                             2.68
No. of mandays/ha                 80                               150
Net Returns/manday (Z$)            2.15                           2.73
1/ In most cases, if a farmer does not spray his cotton, he cannot
expect any yield.
2/ Returns have been priced at an average SO.38/kg.
3/ A package consisting of 250 kg of Compount 'S' + 100 kg of Urea has
been substituted for the usual compound 'L'. It was considered
cheaper with a more appropriate mix of the essential nutrients,
plus Boron.
4/ Using only six of the previously recommended 12 spray applications
which are more appropriate for the commercial farmer.
5/ Cotton is packed in bales of 180 kg/bale (5.6 bales/ton) at
$0.62/bale net.
6/ Transport at 84/bale and ZS1.30/bag of fertilizer.
April 26, 1982



- 66 -                                                 Table B-4
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
(1981/82 Prices)
HECTARE BUDGET FOR COTTON
Natural Region III
Traditional (1 ha)        Recommended (1 ha)
Yield (kg/ha):                  300 1/                      1,000
Returns (Z$):                   114 2/                        380
(1)                           (2)
Costs (Z$)
Seed (Albar)                 4.00                          4.00
Fertilizer                    -                           40.80 1/
Insecticide                   -                           35.00 2/
Packing                       1.24                         3.72
Transport                    8.00                         29.20 3/
Totals                  13.24                        112.72
Gross Margin                  100.76                        267.28
Increment Costs over (1)                                    99.48
Increment Benefits over (1)                                266.00
Benefit : Cost Ratio                                          2.67
No. of mandays/ha-               80                           140
Net Return/manday               1.26                          1.91
1/ Fertilizer proposed for these poorer areas is 150 kg Compount 'L'
together with 50 kg Urea/ha.
2/ Insecticide remains the same as for Region II.
3/ Transport for the project costed at 0.6 bales (180 kg each) @ $4
each - $24. Four bags of fertilizer 8 Z$1.30 each - Z$5.20, total
Z$29.20.



- 67 -                         Table B-5
ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Hectare Budget for Oriental Tobacco
(1981/82 Prices)
Rain red.
Yield (kg/ha)                                       1,000
Returns (Z$)                                        1,400
Average price (W/lg)                                  140
Costs (Z$):
Seed 35gms @ $2.00 per 20 gms                     3.50
Fertiliser                                       74.08  1/
Chemicals                                       113.41  2/
Packing                                           7.00
Transport                                        75.00  7|
Hire of Grading shed                             50.00  3/
Barn Depreciation                               140.00  4/
Insurance                                         5.00  5
Total:     467.99
Gross Margin:      932.01
Selling expenses  6/                             50.00   882.01
Manday/ha                                         324
Returns/manday                                    2.72
1/ 50kg 'S'; 10kg Sodium N'itrate; 300kg 'A'; 100kg Dolomite
2/ 10 l,EDB; 300 gm Neotox; 2.7 kg Zineb: 285 ml Azodrin- 2,8 2.Dimethoate; 4,05 kg
gancozeb (Dithane); 170 gm Benomyl; 6 kg copper oxychloride - all for the seed bed.
For the field, as they would be growing Oriental tobacco for the first time,
their fields should be free of nematodes so in this exercise, EDB in the field
is not included. :- 2.4 1. Azodrin; 1.5 1. Chlorpyrifos; 3.75 1. Dimethoate.
3/ Commercial grading facilities are available.
4/ Cost of barn $720 written off over 3 years.
5/ Field to tobacco floor.
6/ Weighing and auction fees; commission; levy and rehandling costs.
7/ Fertiliser $1.00/bag. Tobacco averages $4.00/80kg bale.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Natural Region II: Whole Farm Budget; Maize, Cotton, Groundnuts
------ Without the Project -With the Project
Maize      Cotton      Groundnuts                    Maize      Cotton       Groundnuts
Yield kg/ha                          1,000      500         300                            3,300     1,500        750
Hectares                             1.00       0.50       0.50                           1.00       0.50         0.50
Vattle of out-put (Z$)               120.00    95.00        60.00                          396.00    285.00       150.00
Variable costs   (Z$)                 29.00      9.00       20.00)                        145.00      68.00        40.00
Enterprize gross margin (Z$)          91.00    86.00        40.00                         251.00    217.00        110.00
Mandays                              64         40          60                            90         80           70
Gross  margin/manday      (Z$)         1.41      2.15        0.66                            2.80       2.71        1.57           1
Total farm gross margin (Z$)                  217.00                                                 578.00
Vialtue of post-harvest losses (10%) (Z$)       22.00                                                  58.00
Fixed costs               (Z$)                 20.00                                                  20.00
N.!t farm income          (Z$)                 175.00                                                500.00
Siubsistence use          (Z$) 1/             177.00                                                 177.00
Nmet cash surplus         (Z$)                  (2.00)                                               323.00 2/
1/  This figure was calculated using FAO/WHO values; a seven member family require 1,200 kg maize + 82 kg of
groundnuts to sup-ply the necessary calories and proteins to sustain them for one year.                                      H
2/  This surplus could cover 13% interest (Z$ 33.00) for a full year on the total cost of the inputs plus a
20% yield reduction for a poor season (Z$ 166.00), plus $124,00 of prior claims on repayments after
subsistence. The budget shows the result of adopting packages on all three crops. In practice adoption
on one or two would be more likely.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Natural Region III: Wlole Farm Budget; Maize, Oriental Tobacco/
Cotton, Groundnuts
------ Without thie Project------   -------------------With the Project------------------
Maize  Cotton  Grotitdnuts            Maizo   Cotton   Crouni(nuts  Mailze  Tobacco  Crouninuts
Yields kg/ha                     700      300      300*                 2,500   1,000    600            2,500    1,000    600
lIectares                        1.00    0.50    0.50                   1.00    0.50       0.50         1.00       0.50      0_.0
Value of out-put (Z$)   /        84.00   57.00   60.00                  300.00  190.00   120.00         300.00   700.00   120.00
Variable costs   (Z$)            18.00   13.00   20.00                  107.00   56.00    40.00          107.00   271.00    4i0.00
Enterprize gross margin (Z$)  66.00   44.00   40.00                     193.00  134.00    80.00         193.00   429.00    80.00
Mandays                          64       40       60                   90       80        70           90         160       70
Gross margin/manday        (Z$)  1.03    1.1       0.66                 2.14    1.68       1.14         2.14       2.68      1.14
3/                               4/
Total Farm Gross Margin (Z$)                      150.00                         407.00                            702.00
Value of post-harvest losses (10%) (Z$)            15.00                          41.00                             70.00
Fixed costs (Z$)                                   20.00                          20.00                            20.00
Not Farn inconle (Z$)                             115.00                         346.00                           612.(0 
Subsistence use (Z$)                              177.00                         177.00                           177.00
Net cash surplus(Z$)                              (62.00)                        169.00 6/ 7/                     435.00 5/ 7/
1/ The average price for Oriental tobacco for the 1982 season, has beer. forecast by
the Tobacco Marketing Board at Z$ 1.40 - 1.50/kg.; Z$1.40 lhas been used here.
2/ Matze is priced at Z$120/ton; Cotton Q 38/kg; Croundnuts 3 40c/kg.
3/ The above 'whole farm budget' would be representative of the Cokwe or Cutu areas.
4/ This budget, whichl substitutes Tobacco for Cotton, would be mainly recommended for
the Gutu and neighbouring areas.
5/ This surplus could cover 13% interest (Z$54.00) for a full year on the total cost
of the inputs, plus a 20% yield reduction for a poor season (Z$224.00), plus
Z$157.00 for prior claims on repayments after subsistence.
6/ This surplus could cover 13% interest (Z$26) for a full year on the total cost of
the inputs, plus a 20% yield reduction for a poor season (Z$122) plus Z$21 for prior H
claims on repayments after subsistence.                         .                               >
7/ The budgets show the result of adopting packages on all three crops.  In practice,    we
adoption on one or two would be more likely.                                                     I



- 70 -                       Table B-8
ZIMBABIWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Maize Export Parity Price
1985 Projection in 1980 Constant Prices
Overseas
Export Parity   Z$ per ton (US$)
Maize (US No. 2 yellow FOB Gulf)
plus a 10% premium for white maize            142 (206)
less ocean freight (Gulf/Durban)                    29 (42)
less port handling                                  15 (22)
less freight Salisbury/Durban                       30 (44)
less GMB handling                                   30 (44)
Parity price                              38 (55)
Neighboring Country
Export Parity (e.g. Zambia) Z$ per ton(US$)
Maize (US No. 2 yellow FOB Gulf)
plus a 10% premium for white maize            142 (206)
plus ocean freight                                 29  (42)
plus port handling                                 15  (22)
plus port/inland freight                          40  (58)
less rail from Salisbury                          30  (44)
less GMB handling                                 30  (44)
Parity price                            166 (241)
Note: The mean parity price assuming 50% exports to a neighboring country
and 50% overseas would be Z$102. It is anticipated that the long run
production level will cater only for local regional export. The mean
parity price calculated here is therefore conservative.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Projeet Costs
Sunuary
(z$000)
Foreign Exchange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    TOTAL           %       (Z$000 )
Seasonial Credit                                           5,250       7,370    9,490        22,110      60      13,266
Medium-Term Credit 21                                      1,748      2,407    3,375          7,530      42       3,163
Facilities and CompuLerization 3/                           1,017        280       196        1,493      60         889
SLaff Traininig & Provision for Technical Assistance-/   180            260        260          700      66         460
Monitoring and Evaluation 5/                                   39         38        46           123       8          10
Base Cost                                                  8,234    10,355   13,367          31,956      56      17,788
Physical Continigencies                                        82         18        19          119      50           59
Price Contingencies                                          217         137       178          532      36         189
TOlAlI COST                                    8,533    iLO510   13,564         32.607       55      1 )36
1/   Table C-2.
2/   Table C-3
3/   Tablc C-4-
4/   Table C-4A
5/   Table C-7.
April 26, 1982



Z DIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
Seasonal Credit
(Z$000)
Year 1                       Year 2                      Year 3               TOTrAL
Credit Requirements
Communal Lands                   (4i,(llO)*     14,990       (49,400)*       20,730       (59,300)*       28,130
African Purchase Lands           ( 4,400)*       5,100       ( 4,850)*        6,730       ( 5,300)*        8,820
20,090                      27,460                       36,950
Less:  AFC Contribution                                 14,840                      14,840                       14,840
12,620                      22,110
Less:  Repayments                                        -                           5,250                       12,620
Incremental Credit Requirements                          5,250                       7,370                        9,490       22,110
*
N-)
*Nuxuiber of Loanis.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
Medium-Term Credit
(Z$ 000)
Year 1             Year 2               Year 3              Total
Communal Lands                         (3300)*    561    (4000)*    800    (4900)*    1225    12200          2586
African Purchase Areas                 ( 400)*   1187    ( 450)*   1607    ( 500)*    2150    (1350)*   4944
Total Cost                                       1748                2407                 3375               7530
Less:  25% Contribution by APA Farmers             297                402                  538               1237
Total Credit Requirement                          1451               2005                 2837              6293
* - Numbers of Loans.
H
(D
lO
w



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
Facilities and Computerization
,(Z$ 000)
Foreign Exclhange
Year 1     Year 2    Year 3    Total          %      Amount
Office Buildings and Staff Houses l/         274           20          8       302                  -
Vehicles 2/                                   91           99        108       298          41    121
Office Equipment                              52           61         80       193          35     68          l
Computer Consultants/Technical Assistance 200             100         -        300         100    300
ComptLer Equipment                           400           -          -        400         100    400
TOTAI,                 1,017           280       196    1,493           60    889
(D
1/ Table C-5.
2/ Table C-6,



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
Staff Training and Provision for Technical Assistance
(Z$000)
Foreign Exclhange
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total           %      Amount
Training                      100        100        100        300         20        60                  -
Expatriate Staff              80        160        160        400         100       400
TOTAL         180        260        260        700         66       460
Hu



- 76 -
Table C-5
ZIEAEZ
SMiU1.FU   CRDI:DT PFRZCT
Proiect Costs
Office Buildings and Staff lFoue.
Unit Cost            Year 1                   Year 2                     Year 3                   TOTL
Office Buildings
Branch Fast
Bindura                     14,850        ( I )*     14,850                                                           ( 1 )      14,850
Birch.nounh Bridge          10,600        ( I )      10,600                                                           ( 1 )      10,600
InyanSa                     10,600        ( 1 )      10,600                                                           ( 1 )      10,600
Mount Darion                 7,425        ( 2 )      14,850                                                           C 2 )      14,850
Mr?va                       14,850        ( 1 )      14,850                                                           ( 1 )      14,850
Sipolilo                    14,850        ( 1 )      14,850                                                           ( 1 )      14,850
Sub-Total                       ( 7 )       80,600                                                          ( 7 )       80,600
Iranch West
Gokwe                        8,030                                                           C 1 )        8,030       ( 1 )       8,030
Karoi                       14,850        ( 1 )      14,850                                                           ( 1 )      14,850
Sub-Total                       ( a )       95,450                                 (1)          8,030       (9)       103,480
Staff Houses
Branch East
Birchenough Bridge          19,800        ( 1 )      19,800                                                             I I )    19,800
Inyanga                     19,800        ( 1 )      19,800                                                            I )       19,800
Mount Darion                19,800        ( 2 )      39,600                                                           C 2 )      39,600
Mreva                       19,800        ( 2 )      39,600                                                           C 2 )      39,600
Sipolilo                    19,800        ( 1 )      19,800        ( 1 )      19,800                                 ( 2 )       39,600
Sub-Total                       ( 7 )      138,600       ( 1 )       19,800                                 (8)       158,400
Branch West
First Victoria              24989p,,      ( 2 )      39,600                                                          (2)         39,600
Sub Total                       C 9 )     178,200        ( 1 )       19,800                                 (10 )     198,000
TOTAL                                273,650                   19,B00                    8,030                   301,460
*lNuber of Units



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Project Costs
Vehicles
Unit Cost            Year 1                  Year 2                    Year 3                 TO'TAL
Motor Cars              6,400         (6)       38,400         (5)       32,000        (5)       32,000         (16)      102,400
Pickups                 4,000         (7)       28,000         (13)     52,000         (16)      64,000         (36)      144,000
Motorcycles             1,500          (12)     18,000         (6)        9,000         (4)       6,000         (22)       33,000
Bicycles                  150         (42)       6,300         (38)       5,700        (43)       6,450         (123)      18,450
TOTAL                           90,700                  98,700                 108,450                   297,850



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
(Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit           Year 1                Year 2                Year 3              Total     Foreign      Foreign
Cost       Number      Cost      Number     Cost       Number   Cost           Cost      Exchange    Exchange
Total
I,   CAPITAL COSTS
University Consultancy:
Researchers Fees                     2,700/month       2       5,400        2        5,400        4      10,800        21,600         0            0
Computer Analysis Fee                4,000/year        1        4,000       1        4,000        1       6,000        14,000        50        7,000
Transport                            2,000/year        1       2,000        1        2,000        1       2,000         6,000        40        2,400
Measuring Equipment, etc.            1,000/initial    1         1,000        -         -          -          -           1,000       50          500
Research Assistant Fees              1,500/month       6        9,000       6        9,000        6        9,000       27,000         0            0
Co
Sub Total                                             21,400               20,400                27,800        69,600                 9,900         I
II. RECURRENT COSTS
Enumerators 1/                       2,000/year        5       10,000       5       10,000        5       10,000        30,000        0            0
Accommodation/Subsistence
-  Researchers/Assistants          40 per day   120       4,800       120       4,800      120       4,800        14,400         0            0
-  Enumerators                   500 per year    5        2,500        5        2,500       5        2,500         7,500         0            0
Office Expenses                        500/year         1         500       1          500        1          500         1,500       30          450
Sub Total                                             17,800               17,800                17,800        53,400                   450
TOTAL                                      39,200                38,200               45,600       123,000         8       10,350
1/ Additionial (if needed) to thuse already working in Department of Lanid Maniagement Surveys.



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARMVi CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION
Organizational Structure
o,gair ation arid Me,thods                   Dleiputy Geineral                                                                                                 Deputy General
Manager                                                                                                           Mananger
Secretarial and |Prsonnel
ashoalauI           Mataelland               Acceu                   ecoeres              Ecnormst             Mashonalaud           Administration          nalnsandn
Easi Branch aarh                             Dpartment                 Brach               Department            West Branch            DepaGemneCt                         lTrang
I anCivIs.ele dt-on   Isan C0sSIdiltenatu       Accoun.ting            L egal                Appraisals and      Loa., Consideration    Secretarial             Purchase              Man.power                Semnio
Ad, i nai of    Ad.rniensiaini of                 Dison                Proceedings           Piolectsir          Adninistration of       Seivies -              Lad Loan              Placrri-g                Inspecto
Mai,,,dlellas         |mel,.                                           Un t                  EC,UL c ov         | Sinuia and             Registry,              Adminiistratn           m anp oy               Sen are s
GEsto rva,            Bulascryc,                                       Lnssisidirns          Fri rtrain          U  vu -ek-s             Typing                 T-ist Lainds          S rvics                  Unit
UIid,erEll,           -  Vo.nIri,u   o                                                       Serce:              D.istrict              Services,               L oa n                I r ai.ng                 e-nsnid
Oistrict              Drs-rt                     SFCS                                 I|aldirce                  Offices                 Administration         Administration        arid Devewk,prriit-  |  Opo'n'o1
Offi-.s               Offic-s                    Ac--uts                                     Sheet                                       arid Conveyancinrg                                                    lr-estrgunro-r
Analysis                                                                                                          Dns t-ts5                                        '
WOffie-s 6_
WourkJ Bank  23-tt, 3i



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Finance Corporation -- Small Farm Credit Scheme - Head Office
IChief Accountaml                                                                       Senior
Head Ofic, X                                                                         Maneager
I el       |                        1        >ra nch ,                                                                   Administiationl 
Mw1agella   i-    A       c     c      o    li uAcco,n             Managers
- 1) -- LaI                                            _      Eust und West (2)               .n
-Awssal                                          Accounts                                                                                        i         
FITWf Mdilauer                                Assistant            Recoveries                                        Data              Administration                                    Typing
(Tralilillg) (1)                                                     Officer                                     Coordinsator              Officer                                     Supervisor
__                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00
Public                                     Recoveries                                   Assistant Data        Administration                                    TVpists
Flelations                                       les ks                                   Co ordinator             Assistants
Officer   (1)                                   (3)                                           f2f                    12)                                           3
Registry                                  Administration
Supeivisor                                      Clerks
Arcou-ts                           Accounts                                      Registry
Assistant                          Assistanti                                     Clerks                                                            Reciptiosist
(1)           (1)                                           f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5)                                                                                                                       C
IDf
Accounts                Se                    Accounts                                                              Input                                    C       s
Cle, k              Accounots                 Clerk                                                               Clerks                                   Cotnlnssioiaire
(2)                  Clerk   (1)             (2)                                                                  (13)                                           1)
Accounts                                      Accounts
Clerk                                         Clerk                                                                                                           Messenger
12)                                           (2)                                                                                                                 )
World Bank- 23464



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION-SMALL FARM CREDIT SCHEME
Brancil West  Mashonialand West, Midlands, Matabeleland and Victoria
8ranlch                 flead Office
Manager                   salsisury
Manager's
Asslstdnt
(2)
Ar a         )                                                                                                        Area          )
Gedit         RArea Office                                                                                            Credit           Area Office
Manadger            Gwelo                                                                                             Maiiager             S     Ania ilAss(ll 
(1)              ~~~~~Admiini  Assistaints I
Adoi-n Clerks        4
Typist               I                              co
Office Oi dei ly i
r                                                ~~~~~~~~Area                                        re
Credit           Area Office                                         Credit           Area Office                     Credit           Area Office
_    (11ffiiXCer  Fon Victoria                                     Ofice,              Gwelo                        Oicer               soia
|Ared Office)e
Ft. Vi t ia            Gut.            Ekikeldoorn            Gwelo             Bulawayo             Gokwe               Sanyati            sallyat              Sinoia              Hartley
Adiniun Assistant I    Credl t
Adimm,n Clerks   5    OfficerAPA   1                                   3                   1                   1                  2                                                           1                   1
Typi,t            t    Cr'edt
Messeiigei        1    Officei  CA   1             1                                       1                   -                  -                   1                  1                    1                   1
Credit
Assist. CA:  2             1                   2                   1                                      14                  -                  2                    6                   2
Field
Agent APA   2                                  5                                       1                            -                            4                    4                   2
World Bank -23465



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL FINANCE CORPORATION-SMALL FARM CREDIT SCHEME
Branch East - Mashionaland Central, Mashonaland East and IManicaland
Branch              Head Office
Marnager              Salisbury
_I
Mdnadger's
Assistantl i11
Trainlee
Manarger  flI 
ArAaeArea Office                                                                       Area                Area  Office
Credlit          Mdshonaland East                                                      Credit          Maslionaland Cental
MOfnager        Maicaland Sahsb.ry                                                     Manager U(Iikwes
Adiliistrion                     AreaOlfire                   District Of ficr    District OfAfice flistrictAOffice          Area Office        dis tri r Office               AdOfifnisieon
Salisburry                  Merarldellas          Oriali               Rusape             Unrrvuksbes rynilUniria                            Assistirnit etc
Admlnnejstnti,ni AssistiILi       Cr Office. APA  1                                                               1                    I                    1                  Adlrninnstr,tve Assistanrt
HlcrstrV CiLik                    Cr Of licer  CA  2                     1                   1                    1                    2                    3                   RelIsh y Cleik
Adlene Clerks 3                   (i. Assisi  CA  11                     4                   4                    5                  10                    12                   Ad'-innnstratuve Clerks 131
He'epri nrisr                     Field Agniit APA 3                     -                                        2                    1                    1                   Hecepioltiust                                                      rt
1 yfiist                                                                                                                                                                        I VPIISt
Messeiilen                                                                                                                                                                     Messenger
(An a Of fice Salisbury I                                                                                                                                                       (Anea Olfice Uri-vukwe-s
World Bank 231465



ZIMBABWE
SMALL FARM CREDIT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule (First 2 Years)
1982                                                      1983                                       1984
FT                         T     T    T         DTMIAIM L I  A    S |    N|DJ|F 
Loan Processing
Negotiations
Board Presentation
Effectiveness
Computer Component
Computer Studies
Computer Procurement
Computer Installation
Recruitment
Training Staff                                                                                                                                                                                                                      00
Agricultural Economist
Training
Training Specialist Study
Training Program Implementation                                                                            -         -                            -
Civil Works                                                                                                                              -                 -
(13 Vehicles)                                             (18 Vehicles)
Ve.hicleProc.urement 1                                                                                                                                                      
Loan Approvals
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring                                                                                             . -   -                                               _
(Baseline Survey)                                   r:
Evaluation Surveys                                                                                                     IIIIIIIINIIIIIIIII  -m  ml-W m                   Ha -     nk24
World Bank-23467






IBRD 16142R
250                ZIMBABWZE                                         28I \                                                  - BAB W
SMALL FARM  CREDIT PROJECT
I6'                             NATURAL REGIONS                                            To -o_e
RELATED FARMING SYSTEMS:    -       Major Roads
Spec:olhzed and Diversified         Secondary Roads                                         -                             x
Forming Region                    Railwoys
Infenswe Farm,ng Region    --       Rivers                                                         ( -        ,,     >/      f     -                >
Intensive Formtng Region        In  Major Cifies                               e
o4ktX~~~~~~~~~~ OterSeete Tn
TI     emxte,nse p F,parmdmg teg                                                                                                                                                                          17/
the, ueprtQoue,hSc ttahe
Thet deOomi,tet,ott  deed and thY =f>He (t)/l(W'
do oct reply Oh the part of the ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ado20
Wood da-k and ito  -Ylrto   0
Ordcceptanceof Opc hocoosare.-1    t_X  
NAAIIBIA     ZIMBABWE>           7                                                                  X                     
t   /  v >   / n d i te n              ~~~~~KILOMETE RS                                          \        /t                                /
BOTSWANA        -      /   s                  ST      _____________________/___                                                                                                                               2
<     >    O    1  0 c0 tos n0                          50              100r. /;n67oM
ff SOUTH    1                                                                                                                _moo_ 
SWAZILAND,                       2                  30/"A9  r  S oTtrt -323-_



I



I  I                                              I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 16141R
25-                                   Z28                                                            29                         - '                                               2Uoosa.                  '     JUNE 1982
ZIM BA BWvE                                                                                                                                         b
SMALL FARM  CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                        'K.
16'                          LAND TENURE AND PROJECT AREAS                                          r                                                                                                                             J6
'   Project Communcal Areas           -   Major Roads                                     ft L        'N
Forest Land                                                                                                                            D~        t     
Secondary Roads                                                                                                I        VK rue B0 
National Parks-.-  Railways                                                                                                                            jhAt
CSafari Areas                     +   Main Airports                                                                 mu                           -
rsettlemetsees      are 
Recreational Parks               o   Other Selected Towns                                         M-ngul7
  Botanical Reserves & Gardens          District Boundaries         4/r          r     4      K     N                                        ,      X        uy      qP                     l       ,,TEotr
Santu r/dies                              Iternational  Boundariedbth ..  ,j~ , ./  1 7   >3''11)4_g
Non-Project Comunal Are a and
LIII I.R. D.A. Areas
Former Purcltase Lands                                              |.:                                                             o4
) ZAtilBIA _% -21- + )9 \) / ~~~~~ARA                                                                                                                              AV\ ;   82   1
CHI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nt
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ v                                                                                                            ED  A    Dst,Iu WtX,,,,-t
th     SC)UT .tfio or th red' of,                                                                                                                                   ).Iolb/n
th   ,e' sfZteA4       2-23 ru4 eohioh  it  ettoh/od3-k 3-3
rue duts,nteatoons toed tad the ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~       5h,
heondete, toest,ott tin mo
de nut tapir. en the pert of the~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Wetid Dank end to efiihetto snr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~
AFRICA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5RM
Sw~~ZtL4N            22'                      2~~'                    2h'                        Jo Prptorte            31'                      32' 3Gwer



