CREDIT NUMBER 1291 ZIM
Development Credit Agreement
(Small Farm Credit Project)
between
ZIMBABWE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November /b, 1982


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November /, 1982, between ZIMBABWE
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau (hereinafter called KfW) a loan (hereinafter called
the KfW Loan) in an amount of ten million Deutsch Marks of which
the equivalent of four million dollars ($4,000,000) would assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW; and
(C)  the Project will be carried out by the Agricultural
Finance Corporation (hereinafter called AFC) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will
make available to AFC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the project
agreement of even date herewith between the Association and AFC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿- 2 -
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and AFC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b)  "Subsidiary  Agreement"   means  the  agreement  to   be
entered into between the Borrower and AFC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Agreement;
(c)  "SFCS" means the Small Farm Credit Scheme established
in terms of Rhodesia Government Notice 284 of 1978 implemented by
AFC;
(d)  "Statement of Policy" means the statement as adopted
and approved by the Board of Directors of AFC on October 19,
1981, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(e)  "Seasonal Sub-loan" means a credit made or proposed to
be made by AFC to a Sub-borrower (as such term is hereinafter
defined) to finance seasonal inputs as referred to in Part A of
the Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Project Agreement;
(f)  "Medium-term Sub-loan" means a credit made or proposed
to be made by AFC to a Sub-borrower (as such term is hereafter
defined) to finance farm development as referred to in Part B of
the Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit
in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Project Agreement;
(g)  "Sub-borrower" means a farmer or a group of farmers or
a farming cooperative to whom AFC has made or proposes to make a
Seasonal Credit or a Medium-term Credit;


﻿- 3 -
(h) "Communal Areas" means lands which are communally owned
or used for farming and grazing under the Borrower's customary
and statute law;
(i) "APA" means lands in the formerly designated African
Purchase Areas which may be acquired for farming and grazing
under leasehold tenancy or a freehold under the laws of the
Borrower;
(j) "Branch East Area" means the districts of Mashonaland
Central, Mashonaland East and Manicaland in Zimbabwe; and
(k) "Branch West Area" means the districts of Mashonaland
West, Midlands, Matabeleland and Victoria.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The   Association   agrees  to  lend  to   the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies  equivalent   to  twenty-seven  million  nine   hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 27,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
aftd outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 1992, and ending
June 15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. AFC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause AFC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AFC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit available to AFC as fixed loan capital to AFC under
a Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and AFC containing terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, including interest at the rate
payable by statutory bodies on loans from the Borrower as may be
determined from time to time.
(c) The Borrower shall continue to make arrangements satis-
factory to the hssociation for the provision of subsidies to AFC
in respect of the SFCS. In the event the actual subsidies to be
paid by the Borrower to AFC differ materially from the estimates
prepared by AFC pursuant to Section 2.12 of the Project Agree-
ment, the Borrower, the Association and AFC shall conduct a joint
review of AFC's operations in respect of the SFCS.
1d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all action which may be required on its part for AFC
(i) to apply the interest rates and the lending terms set forth
in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, and (ii) to implement any
changes in such interest rates and lending terms resulting from
the review referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.


﻿-6-
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall review annually
the interest rates, the lending terms and the areas in which such
interest rates and terms set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement are applicable and may make changes thereof as shall be
necessary to ensure the efficient operation of AFC's lending
program for Sub-borrowers.
(c) In any event, the interest rates, lending terms and
the areas in which such rates and terms are applicable shall not
be amended without the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall take all action to ensure the allocation to AFC of foreign
exchange required for the -crrying out of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, following the annual reviews to
be carried out by AFC pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement, shall take such action as may be reasonably necessary
to make adjustments in the remuneration package of AFC to ensure
the recruitment and retention by AFC of its staff.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all necessary
action to ensure that the position of General Manager of AFC is
filled at all times during the execution of the Project by a
qualified and experienced person. From the date of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall consult the Association on the qualifi-
cations and experience of any subsequent General Manager AFC
proposes to appoint prior to such appointment.
(b) From the date of this Agreement, any General Manager of
AFC to be appointed, whose services are to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall have qualifications, experience and
terms  and   conditions   of  employment   satisfactory   to  the
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿7 -
(a) AFC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement in a manner materially and adversely
affecting the carrying out of the Project.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situa-
tion shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AFC
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Agriculture Finance Corporation Act. Chapter 101,
of the Borrower shall have been    amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of AFC to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the KfW Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project shall have
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the KfW Loan Agreement, or
(B)  the KfW   Loan  shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof;
and
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the   Borrower   to  perform   any   of   its
obligations under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
And    conditions    consistent    with    the


﻿- 8 -
obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of AFC under the Project
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and AFC;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)  the eveat specified in Section (e) (i) (B) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of
subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed by the
Borrower and AFC; and
(b)  the Borrower has announced the interest rates for the
first year of Project implementation as set forth in Schedule 2
to the Project Agreement, including notification that the rate
set forth in Part A.3 of the said Schedule is scheduled to
increase over the Project implementation period.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by
AFC and is legally binding upon AFC in accordance with its terms;
and


﻿9 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and AFC and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date February 10, 1983 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this
Agreement,  the  Minister   of  Finance, Economic   Planning   and
Development of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
Ministry of Finance, Economic
Planning and Development
Private Bag 7705
Causeway
Harare, Zimbabwe
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINFIN                              MINFIN 2141 ZW
Harare                              Zimbabwe


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ZIMBABWE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Seasonal                  22,000,000          75% of Total
Sub-loans                                     Principal
under Part                                    Amount of
A of the                                       Incremental
Project                                        Sub-loans
Disbursed by
AFC commencing
April 1, 1982
(2) Medium-term                 2,930,000          85%
Sub-loans for
Communal Areas
under Part B of
the Project
(3) Training                      300,000          75% of local
expenditures
(4) Monitoring                    120,000          75% of local
and Evalua-                                   expenditures
tion
(5) Civil Works                   300,000          75% of local
expenditures
(6) Vehicles                      300,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) locally                                  100% of local
manufac-                                 expenditures
tured                                   (ex-factory)
(c) locally                                  75% of local
procured                                expenditures
(7) Office Equip-                 190,000         75% of local
ment and                                      expenditures
Furniture
(8) Technical                     930,000         100% of foreign
Assistance                                   expenditures
(9) Computer
Equipment                    530,000
(a) directly                                 100% of foreign
imported                                expenditures
(b) locally                                  100% of local
manufac-                                 expenditures
tured                                   (ex-factory)
(c) locally                                  75% of local
procured                                expenditures
(10) Unallocated                  300,000
TOTAL      27,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;


﻿- 13 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services     -,plied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "Total Principal Amount of Incremental Sub-
loans Disbursed" means the difference between the total principal
amount of Sub-loans disbursed during a given twelve-month period
and the total principal amount disbursed during the previous
twelve-month period.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expend-
itures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 2,800,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) of
the table in paragraph 1 above on account of payments made for
such expenditures before that date but after April 1, 1982; and
(b) in respect of Categories (5), (6), (7) and (9) until
the Association shall have approved AFC's written procurement
procedures.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category       will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the


﻿- 14 -
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount o- the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, repi-esents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the living stand-
ards and incomes of farmers in the Communal Areas and APAs and to
support AFC's lending program to farmers in such areas. It
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Making of Seasonal Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers in Communal
Areas and APAs to finance inputs, including seeds, pesticides and
fertilizers, for cotton, maize and other crops.
Part B:
Making of Medium-term Sub-loans to Sub-borrowers in Communal
Areas and APAs to finance farm development, including fencing,
farm implements, scotch carts, trailers, boreholes, wells and, in
special cases, draught oxen and tractors for APA farmers.
Part C:
Constructing, furnishing and equipping approximately seven
district offices and eight houses in the Branch East Area and
approximately two district offices and two houses in the Branch
West Area.
Part D:
Acquisition of about 16 motor cars, 36 pickup trucks for use
by AFC's headquarters, district managers and field staff, and
about 22 motorcycles and 123 bicycles for use by field staff.
Part E:
Strengthening of AFC's computer accounting capability and
upgrading of computer facilities.
Part F:
Training of AFC's staff.


﻿- 16 -
Part G:
Strengthening of AFC's management capability through the
provision of technical assistance to AFC.
Part H:
Monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify thaz the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198Q.
FOR SECRETARY


