Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20295-MLI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 35.3 MILLION
(US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
TEN-YEAR EDUCATION PROGRAM (PRODEC)
November 27, 2000
Human Development II
Country Department 15
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of September 1, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 750 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = CFAF 750
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA          Projet d'appui a l'Amilioration des Apprentissages dans les Ecoles Fondamentales
AE           Academie de l'Education
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
AIDS         Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
CAP          Centre d'Animation Pedagogique
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CECI         Centre d'Etudes Canadien Internationales
CED          Centre d'Education pour le DIveloppement
CPS          Cellule de Plan ification et des Statistiques
CT           Cellule Technique
DAF          Direction Administrative et Financiere
DRE          Direction Regionale de l'Education
ECD          Early Child Development
ESEP         Education Sector Expenditure Program
ESITEX       Ecole Superieure d'Industrie Textile
GRIP         Grassroots Initiative Project--Projet d'Assistance aux Initiatives de Base
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
FCFA         Franc de la Communaute Financiere Africaine
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IEC          Information, Education and Communication
IDA          International Development Association
IEF          Inspection de l'Enseignement Fondamental
IFM          Institut de Formation des Maitres
IPN          Institut Pedagogique National
IUT          Institut Universitaire de Technologie
LIL          Learning and Innovative Loan
ME           Ministere de l'Education
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PMR          Project Management Reporting
PRODEC       Programme Decennal pour le Developpement de l'Education
UNICEF       United Nations Children's Fund
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO       United Nations Education, Scientifici, and Cultural Organization
VET          Vocational Education and Training
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Hasan A. Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director:   Nicholas R. Burnett
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Robert S. Prouty



MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                 Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     11
3. Benefits and target population                                                    12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         17
2. Financial                                                                         18
3. Technical                                                                         18
4. Institutional                                                                     19
5. Environmental                                                                    20
6. Social                                                                           20
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   23



2. Critical risks                                                                      23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      25
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             25
2. Other                                                                               26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          58
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                              59
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary     72
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        73
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      86
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    87
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             91
Annex 11: Triggers for Phases 2 and 3 of the Adaptable Program Loan                       93
Annex 12: Letter of Sector Policy                                                         98
MAP(S)
IBRD 31215



MALI
EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: November 27, 2000                          Team Leader: Robert S. Prouty
Country Manager/Director: Hasan A. Tuluy         Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Burnett
Project ID: P040650                              Sector(s): EE - Education Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Education
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data ,-
* X   . .  g , t  - . .   ^  , -  ;^   Est imatd          ..
v bAPL -I> ^ndicative Financing Plan    e        mplementation Peiod .    - orroer
,_-_-_.-.    __     .  ;,,.(Bank   ,Y)
IDA            Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %     US$ m       USS m        Date        Date
APL 1       45.00     8.3  496.20      541.20    03/31/2001   12/31/2004 Govemment of Mali
Loan/
C redit __ _ _ _ __                            _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _
APL 2       75.00    15.0  425.00      500.00    01/01/2005   12/31/2007 Government of Mali
Loan/
Credit
APL 3       60.00    10.9  490.00      550.00    01/01/2008   12/01/2010 Government of Mali
Loan/
Credit_
APL 4
Loan/
Credit
Total      180.00          1411.20    1591.20
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [1 Grant    [ Guarantee       [ ] Other:
Forr Loans/Credits/Othem:
Amount (US$m): 45
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                             Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:   Source                                   Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                    244,00          31,92        275,92
IDA                                                          19,81          25,18         45,00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                      7,95          10,10         18,05
MOFA:DIRECTORATE-GENERAL FOR INT. COOP.(DGIC) -               3,00           3,00          6,00
BELGIUM
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                    12,40           2,60         15,00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                             5,37           0,00          5,37
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                             1,88           4,12          6,00



GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN                                             1,87           0,00           1,87
GOVERNMENT OF UNITED STATES                                      8,00          12,00         20,00
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK                                         0,19           0,08          0,27
KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                                   7,54           6,38          13,93
MINISTERE DES AFFAIRES ETRANGERES (MOFA) -                      11,10           4,00          15,10
FRANCE
NETHERLANDS DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                             31,00           0,00          31,00
NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP. (NORAD)                          0,54           0,41           0,94
OPEC FUND                                                        1,63           2,01           3,64
U.N. CHILDREN'S FUND                                            10,89           2,16          13,05
U.N. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME                                       4,85           0,03           4,88
WORLD FOOD PROGRAM                                               4,18           0,00          4,18
Financing Gap                                                   23,40          37,60          61,01
Total:                                                        399.60          141.60        541.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: B.P. 71, Bamako Mali
Contact Person: Barthelemy Togo, Program Coordinator
Tel: 223 29 1965                Fax: 223 29 1965                 Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
AnnualI  155.10     153.30      142.70      90.10 |
Cumulative   155.10     308.40     451.10     541.20
Project implementation period: FY 2001 -- FY 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
CAL PA F-oR: M,n.h, 2MR
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
After the 50 percent devaluation of the CFAF in 1994, economic activity expanded significantly as a result
of Mali's increased competitiveness in cotton, rice, gold and livestock. Real GDP grew at an average of 4.8
percent during 1994-97, compared to an average growth of 2.3% between 1990 and 1993. Mali's future
ability to respond to competitive market conditions will be determined to a large extent by its ability to
supply a well-trained and healthy labor force. An education system which responds to the needs of the
competitive market requires universal quality basic education as its foundation. Developing this base will
be a major challenge for Mali. Only recently has limited progress been made in increasing primary school
enrollments, providing education for girls, and improving education sector financing.
The proposed program will cover a ten-year period with the goal of moving Mali's gross primary
enrollment from about 56% in 1999-2000 to 95% in 2009-10, while improving learning levels. Over this
period, Mali's education system will begin to be decentralized. The first four-year phase from 2000-2004
will be organized thematically: (i) to improve quality, (ii) to expand access, and (iii) to improve
decentralized management. Girls' education issues will be integrated across the range of program
interventions. This will be a period to test and reach consensus on reforms dealing with further expansion
of community schools, decentralization, teacher financing, use of national languages in the lower levels of
schooling, reform of the curricula and pedagogic approach, implementation of a school reading strategy,
school health programs, and increased community participation. The second phase (2005-2007) will take
the various reforms to scale and develop a policy framework to expand service delivery at secondary and
higher levels. The third phase (2008-2010) will consolidate the gains of the first two periods and fiuther
strengthen local financial and administrative management capacity, while preparing the way for greater
expansion of secondary and higher education. The second and third phase will be managed largely at the
regional level. Cost figures given are for the first phase only, unless otherwise specified.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall objective of the first phase of the Mali Education Sector Expenditure Program (ESEP) is to
provide increased and equitable access to higher quality education. Specific goals are to: (a) increase
gross primary enrollment; (b) increase the quality of teaching and learning; and (c) improve decentralized
management of the education sector.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
The Government of Mali and the World Bank have agreed on the following performance indicators between
the years 2000-2004:
Quality of education
(i) A textbook ratio of two books per primary and four per middle school student will be reached.
(ii) Grade repetition will drop from 22% in 1999-00 to 13% in 2003-04; the dropout rate will decrease
from 8% to 5%. Similarly, the repetition rate in middle school will decrease from 20% to 10%. For
secondary, the repetition rate will drop from 25% to 13%.
(iii) The budget on secondary scholarships amounting to CFAF 2.4 billion in 2000 will be spent
entirely on quality-enhancing inputs by 2004.
(iv) 80% of children will read at an acceptable degree of fluency by the end of Grade 2.
-3-



Access of education
(i) The primary gross enrollment rate will reach 70% by the 2003-04 school year from about 56% in
the 1999-2000 school year; that of girls will increase from 46% to 58%.
(ii) Class size in primary schools will decrease from 56 in 1999-00 to 53 by 2003-04.
(iii) At least 32% of secondary students will be enrolled in vocational education.
Decentralized management
(i) The actual number of weekly hours taught by middle school teachers will increase from 15 to 18
by 2003-04.
(ii) Education's share of the total budget will increase to 27% in 2004 with basic education's share
increasing from 55.9% in 2000 to 59% by 2004; secondary's share will decrease from 28.2% in 2000
to 26.5% by 2004 while higher education's share will drop from 15.9% in 2000 to 14.5% by 2004
while teacher training will remain constant at 1%.
(iii) Decentralized development plans will be prepared and implemented in at least 7 of the 9 regions
for the 2003-04 school year.
(iv) The portion of the Ministry's non-salary budget administered by the deconcentrated Academies
will increase to 40% by the year 2004.
These indicators were selected on the basis of the availability of relevant data and to facilitate a common
approach among donors and the Government to monitor performance. The internal efficiency targets are
ambitious given current conditions in Mali. However, many of the reasons for low internal efficiency, such
as incomplete schools, poor physical facilities and inadequate teacher support, can be improved rapidly by
the proposed program interventions. In addition, experience has already shown that community schools
and pedagogie convergente schools are characterized by much lower dropout and repetition rates.
Program Performance Monitoring will be carried out using a Program Management Reporting (PMR)
system to be introduced during the first 18 months of program implementation. One of the advantages of
this system is that it will link expenditures, outputs, and schedule of implementation, including
procurement, for each component at quarterly intervals.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report No. 17775 MLI           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/26/98
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supports the Government's agenda; its overall objective is the
reduction of poverty through improved macroeconomic management, income generation and employment
creation. Supporting this objective, the CAS is structured around two major axes: (i) sustainable human
development; and (ii) stable economic growth. In the education sector, the objectives are to significantly
increase access to basic education, establish the framework to improve the quality and relevance of
education at all levels, bring the cost of education and training within affordable levels, and strengthen local
government and community participation in school management and financing. Since some outstanding
sector policy issues such as high unit costs have been adequately addressed, the Bank is willing to support
the first four years of Mali's ten-year education sector program PRODEC. In parallel with the preparation
of this proposed sector program, the Bank is exploring alternative but complementary ways of delivering
primary education in a separate pilot operation (the Improving Leaming in Primary Schools LIL).
-4-



Over the past 3 years, the Bank's dialogue with Mali has been focused on developing a financially
sustainable policy framework that would allow the country to significantly increase primary school
enrollment rates. The Government's proposed policy framework (Programme Decennal pour le
Developpement de I'Education--PRODEC) was presented to donors at a Round Table Meeting in June
1998.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In order to improve coverage and quality, the Government aims to work in partnership with communities,
many of which have already established schools and financed teachers. The Government proposes the
following strategies to deal with the major issues of the sector.
(a) Low quality of primary and secondary education. The need to improve internal inefficiency is
apparent in high repetition and dropout rates and low completion rates; about 55% and 66% of students
pass the grade 6 and grade 9 examinations, respectively. Due to strikes and other interruptions, the number
of learning hours per pupil per year is much lower than the minimum 780 hours recommended by
UNESCO. The issues related to low quality are discussed below, along with proposed strategies:
(i) High dropout and repetition rates lead to a wastage amounting to about 25% of the recurrent
budget:
Several initiatives have been developed, including a switch to use of national languages in the lower
levels of schooling, and implementation of an after-hours tutoring program. New government
directives mandating lower repetition rates were agreed upon during the appraisal mission.
(ii) Textbooks and learning materials are provided in insufficient quantities and are of insufficient
quality; despite significant expenditures allocated for learning materials:
Textbooks will be made available essentially free of charge to all schools in sufficient quantities for all
basic education students (Grades 1-9). Editing, publishing and distribution will be privatized. Schools
will receive a budget for book purchases.
(iii) Scholarships for secondary and higher education students represent a disproportionate share of
expenditures, leading to an inefficient use of scarce resources. The process is not transparent:
Government will phase out secondary scholarships over the next three years and replace them with a
budget available to secondary schools for purchasing quality-enhancing inputs. For higher education,
the budget for scholarships will be reduced with savings reallocated to quality-enhancing inputs and
student services.
(iv) Pre-service teacher training facilities have been unable to provide sufficient numbers of trained
teachers; in-service training is delivered sporadically, with limited relevance or impact:
Government proposes to greatly increase the number of pre-service training schools, and to provide
in-service training through the cercle-level CAP. The intake level of teacher candidates will be
increased to Grade 12 from Grade 9, with a shorter period of pre-service education and a longer period
of in-class support.
(v) The sector is frequently disrupted by student or teacher strikes:
- 5 -



A communication strategy aimed at working more transparently with the teacher and student unions
has been prepared and is being implemented. The program also seeks to help Government address core
issues leading to dissatisfaction, and to increasingly decentralize responsibility to the regions.
(vi) Poor reading skills depress overall learning levels throughout the entire education system:
Government has decided to focus on the teaching and learning of reading skills, with explicit targets for
achieving reading mastery. Reading nooks will be created and national languages will be the basis for
early reading mastery.
(vii) The curriculum is inadequate to meet students' needs and is generally of minimal relevance:
Several curriculum reform initiatives are underway through the LIL. In addition, specific programs
will seek to improve Medersa school curricula and to bring the community school programs into
harmony with those of official programs, taking the best from each as appropriate.
(viii) Despite expenditure allocation for learning materials, centralized control over resources has
resulted in inadequate supplies and pedagogic support to the classroom and hinders involvement and
ownership by local education providers and communities:
Various decentralization initiatives are planned, including support for region-level financial
management, so that 40% of the non-salary operating budget is managed at the regional level by 2004.
(b) Limited and inequitable access to primary and secondary education. Enormous disparities in
enrollments exist among different regions and among rural and urban centers. Gender disparities persist.
Part of the reason for low access is the simple lack of schools in rural areas. Weak demand for education
is also a factor, particularly for marginalized groups. The gross primary enrollment rate in Bamako is
three times higher than in rural areas. There are several issues related to equitable access:
(i) Teacher financing is inequitable, inefficient, and unsustainable, with parents taking greater
responsibility for paying teachers in rural areas: There have been at least four different modes of
teacher payment (civil service, community-financed, government service volunteers, and annual
contracts). In rural areas, for a variety of pecuniary and non pecuniary reasons, it is difficult to assign
and retain teachers:
Reform on teacher financing has been agreed upon, with all new hires to be on a decentralized, contract
basis. Community school teachers will receive a salary supplementary from government to relieve the
pressure on communities and increase equity and sustainability.
(ii) Construction costs remain high, there are insufficient numbers of classrooms and schools
deteriorate quickly as maintenance is poor. There is enormous variation in the cost of construction,
ranging from about I million CFA to over 11 million CFA per classroom, depending on donor, type
and quality of construction. Certain NGOs have been able to build schools of acceptable quality, by
working with communities to build at an astonishing 15-20% of the cost of traditional
construction--between 1,000,000 and 1,500,000 CFA francs per classroom:
Low-cost construction techniques will be tested on a pilot-basis. To increase girls' enrollments, schools
will be built near the villages and adequate sanitary facilities will be provided.
- 6 -



(iii) With the exception of community schools and Medersa schools, private education remains
under-developed as compared to most other countries in the region:
Government will explore a number of activities in support to be determined for development of private
education.
(iv) Girls are less likely to attend and finish school than boys; the problem is particularly acute in rural
areas and among the poorest families:
A range of gender initiatives are proposed (see Annex 2).
(v) Students with special needs are largely left out of the system:
Government proposes to provide support for mainstreaming special needs students. This approach will
be prepared in partnership with NGOs active in the area.
(vi) The internal efficiency of post-secondary institutions is extremely low; relatively few students
complete their academic programs each year, and few women enroll in these institutions:
Support for higher education will improve, with construction of a central library, support for science
education and research, and an action plan to increase the percentage of female students.
(c) Low institutional capacity for education system management. The historically centralized
management of education is not able to efficiently deliver education to the whole country. The Government
is therefore decentralizing functions and has made capacity building a national priority in strategic planning
and management at all levels. There are five main issues related to ME's institutional capacity:
(i) The many co-existing modes of delivery of public and private primary schooling (Medersa schools,
community schools, other private schools, pedagogie convergente schools) but little coordination in
terns of materials, teacher training, financing and evaluation. In many cases, communities can no
longer finance teacher salaries:
Public schools and community schools that satisfy criteria to be established will be transformed into
communal schools over a 3-4 year period. As part of this process, Govermnent will assure base
financing for community school teachers. It will work in collaboration with NGO to develop clear
strategies for in-service teacher training. A coherent strategy for upgrading Medersa schools and for
supporting increased private schooling will be developed in the next year.
(ii) ME's organizational structure and management system is weak. The central ME departments,
regional and local authorities, schools and communities are not yet ready to assume new
responsibilities. Roles and job descriptions are not clearly defined, management skills are weak:
A training and reorganization strategy is being developed under the mandate of the decentralization
unit. Decentralized education plans will be prepared by all 9 regions as part of this process.
(iii) ME's decentralization strategy is costly and provides inadequate support at the regional and local
levels:
-7-



A unit will be created immediately with the mandate to develop a financeable decentralization strategy
over the next two years.
(iv) The system of financial management is out of date: ME staff, especially those at the regional and
local levels, need training in program budgeting, accounting, management, computerized information
systems, and procurement:
A financial management system is being developed, along with a training program.
(v) ME does not have an adequate system of monitoring and evaluation to track the progress of its
massive effort to improve education, particularly at the secondary level:
The new monitoring and evaluation system will address these issues. It will, among other things,
provide for annual testing of student achievement in reading and math at selected grade levels.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Program coverage (basic education vs. full sector-wide support). The ESEP is based on a sector-wide
framework, with priority given to basic education. The extent of support to secondary and higher education
will depend on specific financing and management reforms proposed for implementation at these levels.
Primary school construction (central procurement vs. increased community involvement). Central
approaches to procurement have been well-tested and have a good track record, but are expensive. The
community approach to construction has been successfully used by many NGOs and others and helps
promote ownership and infusion of resources in the communities. Support will be given for a base program
using central procurement procedures in the first phase, with experimentation and increasing support for
lower-cost community-based approaches. It is expected that these approaches will dominate by the second
phase, depending on the results of the experimentation.
Textbook production (sales-based approach vs. free distribution to schools). The program has opted
for free distribution to schools. The pedagogie convergente approach has been tested in an essentially
ad-hoc manner with poor quality textbooks and learning materials and inadequate amount of learning
materials for math and teaching of French as a second language. The project will test the production of
good quality textbooks in national languages and their delivery to the inspectorates. It will also test the
capacity of the communities to handle the transportation of books from the CAP to the schools as well as
their storage and safekeeping during the school holidays. Lessons learned from these tests will help
improve the design and implementation procedures of the textbooks and learning materials component of
PRODEC.
Literacy (government management vs. contracting to service providers). Within the context of
community partnerships, the Government will learn how to contract out functional literacy services to NGO
and involve communities in the decision-making. Collecting of cost infornation and a program evaluation
will allow for comparisons to be made with other programs and decisions to be made about subsequent
phased implementation. There is a wealth of functional literacy programs in Mali (CMDT, GRIP,
UNICEF, SAVE, World Education, CECI).
Teacher financing (civil service versus contract-based). The current system is inequitable in that there
are haves (teachers with civil service status) and have-nots (virtually everyone else). Rural communities
bear the brunt of current inequities. Government has made the choice to put all teachers on a much more
- 8 -



even footing by guaranteeing a basic minimum salary package and moving to communal school board
contracts for all new teachers.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program approaches the issue of universal primary completion from three complementary perspectives:
(i) helping the system build more schools and hire more teachers, (ii) improving quality in such a way that
student learning increases, and (iii) improving overall system management, in part through decentralizing
most responsibility and authority for service delivery. The first phase of the Program is designed to put the
framework for this approach solidly into place. Satisfactory achievement of the performance indicators for
each phase constitutes a performance trigger for the subsequent phase. In addition, there are 3 more
performance triggers for each of the follow-up loans linked to the 3 components. For the second phase,
which is to be largely managed at the regional level, these are as follows: (i) access: agreement between
ME and local government officials regarding the details of the school mapping exercise, (ii) quality:
evaluation of the various pilot testing initiatives conducted during Phase 1, and (iii) management: existence
of capacity to manage the education system at the regional level. This capacity is linked to preparation and
approval of a sustainable action plan and budget for each region. For the third phase, which is to be
largely managed at the regional level with increased responsibility at the cercle and the commune level, the
3 additional triggers are as follows: (i) access: agreement between ME and local government officials
regarding procedures to eliminate disparities in access among regions, departments, towns, urban and rural
settings, and boys and girls, (ii) quality: evaluation of initiatives taken to scale during the second phase and
related decisions taken for preparing the third phase, and (iii) management: existence of capacity to
manage the education system at the commune (basic education) and the Academies (secondary/higher
education) levels, including the preparation and approval of a sustainable action plan and budget for each
CAP (see Annex 11 for a complete breakdown of triggers).
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
.                            Jh~~~ ~ ~~~~d i , lv- Bank- -I-   o
s~Cmpoent               :          Bector-        Cots,  % of    fIndninag- 'SBmuk
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ; ' _ ' ' _ ' - , , _ ' _ . _ ' _ _   (U ': M   .. ..al   ( U $ M   Xt_Ls m l
1. Quality of Education                               149.00       27.5      18.47       41.0
2. Access to Education                                 189.00       34.9     23.29       51.8
3. Decentralized management                            202.15       37.4      2.19        4.9
4. PPF                                                   1.05        0.2       1.05       2.3
Total Project Costs                   541.20       100.0     45.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                    541.20      100.0      45.00     100.0
The program's components cover the quality of education, access to education and MEs institutional
development. The Government has already begun implementation with assistance from donors. The
components of the entire ESEP program, funded by the Government and donors, are outlined below.
Sub-components that IDA will fund are noted in the summary cost table.
g9-



(a) To improve the quality of education, the ESEP will support:
Basic Education -Quality
(l.a)     Early childhood development (ECD)
(1 Ib)    Pre-service and in-service teacher education
(I.c)     A curriculum linked to basic educational needs
(I.d)     Evaluation of learning outcomes and examination reform
(1 .e)    Reading First program
(I.f)     Textbooks and reading materials
(1 .g)    Special needs education
(1 .h)    Strengthening of the Medersa schools
(1.i)     School health and nutrition
( Ij)     Reduction of grade repetition and dropouts
(l.k)     Non-formnal education
Secondary general, technical and professional-Quality
(1.1)     Teaching and learning materials
(1.m)     The teaching of science and technology
(1 .n)    Vocational and professional training
(1 .o)    Instructional support
( .p)     Life skills/reproductive health courses
Higher education-Quality
(I .q)    Management of higher education
(I.r)     Strengthening of library and information services
(I .s)    Procurement of scientific equipment
(1 .t)    Establishment of a competitive research fund
(b) To increase access and improve equity in the distribution of school places, the ESEP will support
the following sub-components:
Basic education -Access.
(2.a)     Extension of ECD centers
(2.b)     Classroom construction
(2.c)     Construction of training centers
Secondary general, technical and professional-Access
(2.d)     Construction and rehabilitation of secondary schools
Higher education - Access
(2.e)     Access to higher education
(c) To strengthen the capacity of decentralized management, ESEP will support:
-1 0 -



(3.a)     Transfer of capacity and resources to local governments
(3.b)     Implementation of a decentralization master plan and regional education development
plans
(3.c)     Financial management
(3.d)     Personnel management
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The program will support introduction of the following key policies.
Quality of Education
(a) Teacher quality will be enhanced by:
(i) revitalization of pre- and in-service programs;
(ii) institutionalization of the policy of contract teacher recruitment with improved grade structures,
salaries, benefits and promotion criteria;
(iii) integrating pedagogical support and teacher supervision within the CAP; and
(iv) increasing the intake of teacher candidates to Grade 12 rather than Grade 9.
(b) The two cycles of primary and lower secondary education would be unified to form one cycle of formal
basic education (9 Grades). To achieve this, the curriculum will be revised; the examinations at the end of
primary will be dropped and new tests will be introduced to match the cycles of learning to be introduced in
the primary school system.
(c) National languages will be used as the medium of instruction in the lower grades of primary school.
(d) To increase availability of textbooks:
(i) textbooks will be provided free to basic education schools (Grades 1 - 9);
(ii) textbook publication and distribution will be handled by the private sector; and
(iii) selection and procurement of textbooks will be decentralized to regions, CAP and schools.
Access to Education.
(a) A low cost school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance strategy will be piloted to permit
construction of durable schools and extend the life of education assets; it will feature community-based
approaches.
(b) The Government will introduce a package of measures (monitored by national and regional Gender
Units) to bring gender sensitivity into the mainstream and increase the participation and achievement of
girls in the education system.
(c) The teacher financing policy will include community schools, for which a per teacher grant will be
provided by govemment.
Decentralized management and institutional capacity.
(a) A new decentralized structure for the management of education will be adopted to increase the
involvement of regions, communities and schools in the management of the system.
- 11 -



(b) Primary schools will become the responsibility of the commune, with management responsibility
delegated to a management committee and financing underwritten by the central government.
(c) Financial management systems will be developed to support the process of decentralization.
(d) Donor procedures for monitoring, reporting, financial managemeni and auditing will be harmonized.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits.
The primary beneficiaries are primary and lower secondary school children although students and teachers
at all levels of the system will benefit from improved quality. The program will set the stage for universal
primary education in addition to the following internal and extemal benefits: (a) increase in basic education
contributes to poverty reduction, sustainable economic growth, and greater productivity and equity,
particularly for girls/women. In addition, improvements to basic education increase the quality of life,
particularly of girls/women, by reducing fertility, maternal mortality and child mortality rates; by
improving nutrition and health standards; and by making it more likely that the children of direct
beneficiaries will in turn receive a better education; (b) decentralizing education management will lead to
more appropriate solutions for communities and more effective delivery; greater autonomy and input in
decision-making will give parents and communities a greater stake and interest in the success of schooling;
and a quality education is likely to increase the cost-effectiveness of schools over time as well as the
demand for schooling.
Target population.
Program initiatives target a range of different population: pre-school children age five and under,
children of school age, teachers, urban and rural adults (in particular, women) between IS and 49
years of age, administrative personnel of ME at the central, regional and local levels, and parents and
communities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Program will be implemented by the Ministry of Education. Decision-making responsibility for
budgets and annual action plans will be assumed by the Cabinet Council over the first phase and by
regional committees over the second and third phases.
Oversight Responsibility. The primary responsibility for providing overall guidance about the scope and
direction of the project will rest with the Cabinet Council. The Cabinet Council is chaired by the Secretary
General of ME and comprises the Directors of the ME technical departments, the Cellule Technique for
PRODEC, the Project Coordinator, and representatives of civil society.
The Cabinet Council will ensure that the project activities are consistent with Government's overall policy
objectives in the education sector. It will have primary responsibility for overseeing project performance
and progress, reviewing and approving annual work programs and budgets, including management reports
prepared by the Coordination, assessing the impact of activities on the basis of project performance
indicators, and for providing guidance about the overall scope and direction of the project. The Cabinet
Council will be the primary mechanism for ensuring that the interests of key stakeholders, particularly
those at the regional level, are adequately addressed during project implementation. It is envisaged that the
Cabinet Council will meet on a quarterly basis, or at other times as needed.
- 12 -



Program Co-ordination Management. The PRODEC Cellule Technique of the ME has been
established to ensure the overall coordination. It will be responsible for coordinating actions of donors,
private and public partners at the regional and central levels; assist component managers in the
implementation; build capacity at the regional levels to prepare annual budgets and operational plans;
ensure that operating plans and budgets are implemented in accordance with commitments made to
donors; prepare and submit to partners, donors and steering committee progress reports and ensure that
audit reports are prepared and recommendations are implemented; prepare CCE meetings and annual
review meetings. The CPS will receive logistical and training support in order to assume these
responsibilities after a transitional period, the length of which will be determined by achievement of a
set of capacity-building criteria.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. Under the program, the function of
the DAF is being significantly altered and expanded to allow the ME to monitor the resources and
expenditures of the entire sector. The coordinating units of on-going projects (VET and AAA-LIL)
will be dissolved and their staff will be absorbed into the DAF or CPS. The computerized financial
management system used under the AAA-LIL project will be extended and refined to reflect the new
ways of preparing regional operational plans and budgets. Financial management systems will be
introduced in high schools and at the University in order to adequately manage delegated resources in a
responsible way.
General responsibilities of DAF. The DAF will be responsible for ensuring that there is adequate
financial management at the CAP, commune, and school levels coordinating the preparation of the
education budget, monitoring budget implementation; coordinating the execution of the investment
budget; maintaining Ministry of Education accounts for all expenditures made at the regional level,
preparing financial reports and statements. As well, the DAF will be responsible for ensuring proper
functioning of special accounts and the Project account; executing expenditure from advance accounts;
overseeing expenditures made on the authority of ME by CAP and DRE and made by autonomous
agencies such as high schools and universities; overseeing the management of construction contracts;
ensuring that all partners adhere to the Manual of Accounting and Financial Procedures; ensuring that
audits are prepared; preparing a quarterly Program Management Report by component and category of
expenditures; verifying its consistency with the initial financial framework for the PRODEC and
identifying gaps and proposing remedies.
Management of school construction. The main responsibilities in school construction are the design,
construction management and construction. At the ME the capacity in design and in management of
construction is quite weak. During pre-appraisal a detailed technical note was prepared with the
government. It is anticipated that by the second phase, the management of contracts and construction
will be given to local governments.
-13-



Monitoring and evaluation. ME will monitor and evaluate the program on the basis of detailed terms of
references for each key urnit. Once the institutional assessment is completed, the various units will have a
clearer idea of what information they will need to gather in order to monitor performance. Various
initiatives such as ECD, teacher training and curriculum changes will require regular and specific school
and student evaluations and analyses to be carried out, as well as using financial data to undertake
cost-effective analysis. The IPN, AE, CAP and CPS will be very involved in these activities. A detailed
secondary education survey has already been carried out to this end. An important activity will be setting
up and collecting school base data as well as establishing student evaluation capacity. The new financial
management system will provide detailed cost and financial information which will allow for closer
evaluation of fnancial implications of new policies and activities.
A program implementation report will be carried out for the mid-term review and a completion report will
be prepared within 6 months after the closing date of the IDA credit. Various studies will be carried out
during the program to evaluate or test specific aspects of education (demand side issues, cost-effectiveness
of secondary school options). Independent consultants will be hired to conduct technical audits of the
program and to assess quality of implementation. The capacity developed for student evaluation and
comparative analysis of different school systems will be integrated into the sector.
Manual of procedures A manual of procedures was prepared for the education LIL in the context of the
Government's sector strategy. This manual has been expanded to reflect the entire sector. The terms of
reference for the manual were vetted by the donors participating in the sector prograrn; the first draft was
discussed with donors, NGOs and other partners during appraisal.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The underpinning theme of the CAS is poverty reduction. This program addresses poverty reduction in two
ways. First, basic education has been shown to be the single most important investrnent for overall
economic development. Second, there are targeted initiatives under the program geared toward the most
disadvantaged groups, including geographic targeting and measures to address gender inequities.
The education sector portfolio in Mali currently includes a LIL in support of increased use of national
languages to improve primary schooling, and a vocational and technical training project. The option of
using a separate standard investment project was considered. The advantages of maintaining separate
operations (greater focus, less complex coordination among different ministry units and departments) were
considered to be outweighed by the advantages of a sector expenditure program (greater scope for needed
budget and financial management reform, better linkages between primary and secondary, and between
secondary and higher education, more efficient use of procurement-proficient personnel within the ministry,
greater potential for donor coordination). Within the context of a sector expenditure program, the APL
provides the flexibility needed over the ten-year program, given the uncertainties associated with
decentralization and the various pilot initiatives (notably textbooks, low-cost construction, and national
languages).
Lending instrument. The lending approach for financing the ESEP is the sector expenditure program.
The lending instrument is the Adaptable Program Loan (APL). This instrument has been considered the
most appropriate from the beginning of program preparation, given the ten-year time frame and the need
for policy and program decisions at several stages well beyond program start-up. A Sector Expenditure
- 14 -



Program (SEP) approach assumes that the policy and investment program covers the entire sector from the
start. Primary education is the highest priority; strategies for investment at that level are well defined and
there is common agreement on how to proceed. Options for the other two sub-sectors require more careful
reflection, given the choices yet to be made regarding design of training programs, and the roles of the
public and private sectors. Discussions are ongoing as to how these issues should be resolved. Donors
have agreed to channel their support to the education sector in the context of the PRODEC and to agree on
revision and further development of the PRODEC through joint annual reviews and a mid-term review.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           J          Project           -  -           pPSR ojRtnnly)
.           - -        . ~~~~~~~~~. ,(Bank.fi'iian,cd ,pr,oects only)
Implementadon   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Vocational Training                Vocational Education and          S             S
Training Consolidation Project
Education                          Improving learning in Primary     S             S
Schools Project
Health                             Health Sector Investment          S             U
Program
Infrastructure                    National Rural Infrastructure      S             S
Project
Other development agencies
U.S. Agency for International      Basic Education Expansion
Development                        Project
Canadian International Development   Vocational Training Project
Agency
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Mali Education Sector Expenditure Program will be benefiting from key lessons leamed in previous
projects such as the Education Sector Consolidation Project and the Education Sector Adjustment Credit.
The following lessons are drawn from the ICRs of these projects, and other sources.
(a)    Politically difficult education reform programs which are not supported by sufficient financing and
IEC are unlikely to succeed as the short-term costs appear greater than the short-term benefits.
(b )   To be an effective partner, IDA staff should increase their understanding of the socio-political
consequences of education reform, and be more attentive to borrower efforts to explain and prepare for
these consequences. Furthermore, IDA needs to improve its ability to explain and present the rationale
behind education reformn programs in terms which are understandable by key actors in the education sector
(teachers, students, journalists, etc.), and by civil society at large.
(c)    Without effective controls on student flows to public secondary and higher education, and on
scholarship expenditures, it is difficult, if not impossible, to sufficiently develop primary education in
- 15 -



situations of budgetary austerity.
(d)    Up-front and on-going participation of all major stakeholders in the design of reforms is essential.
Public discussion and debate and carefully developed information campaigns must be organized, pre-tested
and conducted prior to and during the implementation of reforns.
(e)    The Government must develop a comprehensive and coherent strategy for the sector that provides
the basis for all donor intervention. This strategy must reflect consensus among the various stakeholders in
the sector.
(f)    If teaching and learning are to improve, the school must be the locus of change. Previous projects
did not pay enough attention to the importance of empowering teachers and school directors. The current
program design will draw lessons from regional experiences such as the successful small grants progran in
Guinea. It seeks to redefine the roles of the inspectorate and the in-service training centers in order to
enable them to respond to teacher-driven initiatives, and to prepare the way for decentralization of school
improvement and budget management initiatives.
(g)    Teacher financing. The main constraint on developing the education sector is recurrent financing
for teacher salaries, not investment financing for classroom construction and educational materials. Under
this program the government is shifting from a centrally-managed teaching force to one that is locally
managed. All new teachers will be recruited on a contract-based hiring system at all levels.
(h)    National languages: The research demonstrates clearly that children acquire basic literacy and
comprehension skills more easily when classes are taught in their own language, particularly in a context
where family and community do not speak the second language. This also facilitates second-language
acquisition and community involvement with the life of the school. The program will include support for
bilingual education curriculum that is designed for full national implementation during the second phase of
the PRODEC.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The preparation of this program was long delayed due to insufficient evidence of borrower commitnent and
ownership. Government has responded to this concern vigorously over the past six months, consolidating
the education sector into a single ministry, appointing a new management team, bringing the PRODEC
cellule technique into the ministry, and appointing a capable coordinator for the program. In addition,
government has initiated a proactive communications strategy with students and teachers, and has prepared
draft decrees addressing scholarships and other issues which should lead to much greater cost-effectiveness
and a more rational allocation of expenditures. A series of workshops has been held with ME personnel to
ensure their involvement and sense of ownership. The draft PAD was prepared through these workshops.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
During program preparation, the Bank has been instrumental in three main areas: (a) technical advice on
education, financing and management issues, (b) strategic advice for mobilizing donor support and
facilitating consensus, and (c) providing a predictable and flexible source of funds to ensure that the core
program will be financed while other donors firm up their contributions. The Bank has also produced
background documents to support the ME's analysis of constraints and alternative solutions (including
cost-benefit and effectiveness analyses, and an education sector expenditure review). The team working for
the Bank on Mali education issues represents a range of technical and disciplinary backgrounds and has
been associated with successful implementation of education reform in the region, including teacher
- 16 -



financing, textbook rental and use, curriculum enrichment and school improvement initiatives, low-cost
primaty school construction, gender equity, adult literacy, and school health, etc.
During program implementation, the Bank will fund key elements of the core program and will provide
technical advice in program implementation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
Cost-effectiveness. The Government's decision to only hire contract teachers, grand-fathering civil
servant teachers through attrition and retirement is the single most cost-effective policy that will be
implemented under the ESEP. The increasing share of salaries in the recurrent budget over the 1990s
effectively crowded out the capacity to finance inputs such as books, maintenance and supervision
needed to ensure education quality. By 2000, "volunteer" teachers accounted for 15% of salary unit cost
when compared to civil servant teachers for primary although they provided about 16% of teaching
force. Studies carried out during preparation show that teacher status does not appear to affect the
quality of teaching.
Other approaches which will improve the cost-effectiveness of the program are reducing the training
period for new primary teachers which will be reduced by one year. At the same time, the level of
qualifications of teacher candidates is being increased, generally from a Grade 9 level to a Grade 12
level. Donors and government have agreed to adopt low-cost construction standards and local
governments will be responsible for maintenance which will prolong the life of school buildings
minimizing future rehabilitation and replacement costs. Finally, the policies aiming at improving the
quality of education in secondary and middle schools were validated by a study done in preparation
which concluded that improving the management of schools, improving the provision of books and
increasing the proportion of mandatory hours that teachers taught were the most cost-effective policies.
In addition, under the ESEP, various initiatives will be evaluated for their cost-effectiveness, including
adult literacy, community schools, national language teaching, various textbook provision schemes and
private sector delivery of higher education services in order to guide future policy decisions. Another
potential source of savings is the redeployment of administrative positions filled by non-teaching
teachers and supplementary teachers who receive full-time salaries but work only occasionally and other
civil servants who erroneously receive teaching benefits.
Although the ESEP covers the entire education system quite comprehensively, the proposed policies for
basic education are likely to have the most direct impact upon poverty reduction. Increasing primary
education's share of education recurrent expenditures to 64% by 2010 from 56% in 1999-00 coupled
with the adoption of a recruitment policy of hiring contract teachers will benefit children in rural areas
and from the poorest households, where the GER is the lowest. Using multi-grade schools in rural areas
more extensively, targeting school construction to poor areas and the construction of small rural middle
schools will respond to factors contributing to low demand for education by poor families. The
provision of free textbooks will reverse a policy that deterred in the past children from the lowest
quintiles from attending school. Special attention to the needs of educating girls will aim to reduce the
gap between girls' and boys' enrollment, drop-out, repetition and completion rates. Partial cost-recovery
could have a negative impact on the demand for education, particularly at the secondary school level.
-17-



Government Expenditures. Detailed projections and a three-year budget integrating recurrent and
investment expenditures by level of education and by source of financing for the 10 year program were
produced by the Government and are found in the project files. With respect to intra-sectoral allocations,
the proposed program should improve the quality of public recurrent expenditures. The share allocated to
primary will increase to 64% by 2010 up from 56% in 1999 due to hiring 2000 new teachers annually and
increasing expenditures on other inputs related to improving learning at school level. The share to higher
education will decline from 16% in 1999 to 15% by 2004 and 12% by 2010, primarily as a result of
reducing enrollments, rationalizing staff and limiting scholarships to CFAF 3.7 billion annually.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
(see Annex 4). The Government is committed to providing 27% of its national budget and 6% of the
country's investment budget for the ESEP. Resource projections for the education sector based on
assumptions (on an annual basis) that GDP (and household's incomes) will grow at 4.75% over the plan
period (2000/01-2003/04), GDP deflator at 3%, population at 3.8%. The total cost of the first phase of
ESEP (2000-2004) is estimated to be US$541 million; of which US$149 million is for increasing
access, US$189 million for improving the quality of education and US$203 million is allocated for
improving the management of the system and rendering it more decentralized. Government is the
largest financier of the education sector, providing 51% of total resources and donors will finance 35 %
of the program. Household participation represents fees which will be used to finance quality inputs at
the post-primary levels. Central government is the main source of financing for recurrent expenditures,
financing 95% of expenditures - mainly for salaries and other operating costs.
3. Technical:
The program addresses issues of quality, access, demand and equity systematically. Program
components were prepared on the basis of technical and economic studies and in the light of lessons
learned as well as demonstrated, sound educational practice. The project files contain the mission
technical notes and numerous evaluation reports by donors and the government. There is general
agreement that the learning process built into the ESEP and pilot activities should significantly advance
technical standards and capacity in the sector. Program components and related school and community
level activities will be implemented in accordance with acceptable standards and monitoring indicators,
and studies required to support policy development will be conducted, in order to create the feedback
and capacity that will lead to stronger technical performance on a sustainable basis.
In particular, the following technical issues and challenges are emphasized in the govemment's
Statement of Education Sector Policy: (a) the development of a viable model for learning and school
improvements, based on a shared consensus on the purpose, content and relevance of schooling. This
development will be informned by the ongoing LIL and further experimentation in reading development
and instruction in national languages in the early grades; (b) the shift to an increasingly demand-driven
and inclusive education system, accessible even to marginalized groups. The poverty and gender
targeting strategies of the program, as well as the development of private schools and
family/school/community partnerships, and the active involvement of each type of school and CAP will
be crucial to achieve this goal; and (c) the progressive decentralization of managing and financing the
school system. To this end, the program supports institutional capacity building of local authorities,
school officials and parent associations in the preparation, negotiation and implementation of regional
- 18-



development plans for schools and education service delivery. This would involve the development of "
service packages" including quality improvement initiatives, as well as rules and regulation for parents'
and community participation, costs and the use of resources.
Investments and recurrent cost estimates for the program are based on estimates of prevailing market unit
cost, with appropriate allowance for inflation. Physical contingencies have been included in the cost
estimates.
4. Institutional:
The sectoral program will be implemented by the Ministry of Education. Each directorate will
implement its own sub-componentss. The technical unit of the PRODEC will handle coordination and
monitoring during a transition period, after which the CPS will assume this responsibility. The CAP
and the AE will play increasingly important regional roles.
4.1 Executing agencies:
(i)    The DAF will be responsible for financial management; coordinating the preparation of the
education budget, monitoring budget implementation; coordinating the execution of the investment budget;
maintaining Ministry of Education accounts for all expenditures made at the regional level, preparing
financial reports and statements. A new organizational chart will be prepared, staffing and training and
technology needs identified and a program set up to reinforce its operational capacity. The DAF has had
considerable experience in adapting to new procedures - the budget system is computerized, it manages
r-gies d'avance with the AE. It has also installed the TOMPRO (LACI compatible in 18 months) system
to manage the Education LIL and has trained procurement analysts.
(ii)   Cellule technique. The Cellule Technique was responsible for developing the government's 10
year education strategy. It will be responsible for program coordination during a transitional period in the
first phase. By the time of the mid-term review, it is expected that the CPS will take over coordination
responsibilities, with ongoing support from the Cellule Technique as needed. A decision will be made at
the time of the mid-term review regarding the best way to incorporate the cellule technique structure into
the ME management structure. The challenge for the Cellule Technique is to help the technical
departments of the ME develop their capacity to implement a vast program of reform.
4.2 Project management:
(i)    Organization. With the recent merger of the two Ministries, the organizational charts are obsolete.
New organizational relationships will be defined and codified over the course of the first phase. To this
end, an institutional analysis is being conducted at present under CIDA financing that will be incorporated
into the Manual of Procedures. A working group has been established to provide recommendations for
organizational restructuring as a part of the decentralization process.
(ii)    Management. The lack of resources, information and communications has rendered the ME
reactive rather than proactive. The sector approach will begin to tackle this issue and help the ME
move to a culture of management rather than simple administration. The development of regional plans
and budgets, clear priorities and strategies as well as performnance indicators will promote this process.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of DAF capacity was carried out twice: during the appraisal of the ongoing LIL and again
during the appraisal of the ESEP. The entity dealing with procurement does not have enough experience.
As pointed out in the assessment, an action plan will strengthen the overall capacity of the team and
- 19-



improve the performance indicators. In addition, the preparation of a procurement plan acceptable to IDA
will facilitate monitoring of the procurement process (see annex 6).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Given the sector approach adopted by the ME, lateral directorates such as the DAF, CPS and the
Cellule technique play a new and critical role.
The financial management of the program will be centered around the DAF at the central level, the AE
at the regional levels and at high-schools and the University. As well, the Government may decide to
contract a private agency to manage the construction component of the project. A preliminary
assessment of the DAF and the AE was done during appraisal. While there has been substantial
financial management experience by the DAF, the AE, the high schools and the University, the current
organization, staffing and financial management systems do not meet World Bank financial management
requirements in terms of accurately reporting on program expenditures regardless of the source of
funding. The following weaknesses were identified: (i) budget management is designed to prevent
overrun and not as a management tool; (ii) an embryonic computerized financial management system
exists at the DAF and AE levels; (iii) budget expenditure data are weak; (iv) there is a manual budget
monitoring system; (v) there is an absence of detailed written administrative and accounting procedures;
and (vi) many staff are not qualified.
A detailed set of measures to strengthen the DAF and financial management throughout the system have
been developed to make the system compatible with the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. A manual of financial and accounting procedures has been prepared.
S. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Gender and poverty affect school enrollment and completion rates substantially. There is a marked
difference in gross primary enrollment between urban Bamako (138.5%) and rural areas such as Mopti
-20 -



(26.8%) and Kidal (26.7%). Girls' gross enrollment in these areas is 125%, 21.4% et 20.3%
respectively. Girls' total enrollment in primary is only 44.4% as compared to 63.6% for boys. Drop out
rates are higher for girls than boys and their achievement levels are generally low. Low enrollment rates
among the poor are the result of a variety of socio-economic factors, including the direct cost of school
such as fees and pedagogic materials; the indirect costs of lost child labor, particularly important in rural
areas during peak agricultural periods; the distance to schools, and the perception, reinforced during the
economic crisis, that retums to schooling are low and that what is learned has little relevance nor
practical value.
Families (i) are less willing to spend money on sending girls to school, (ii) are less willing to forego the
labor of girls which is often more important that of boys, (iii) see less relevance in the existing
curriculum for girls who are less likely to graduate and whose labor market possibilities are restricted
and (iv) are more reluctant to send girls long distances to attend school. In addition, other factors
influence enrollment and completion such as pedagogical materials that relegate women to limited roles,
cultural beliefs regarding the appropriateness of educating girls, classroom behaviors of teachers and
students, and concerns about the physical safety of girls attending school. In more general terms, the
language of instruction also provides barriers to access to learning for all those children who do not
speak French at home.
The program will help implement ME's policy and plan of action for girls' schooling. Regional gender
units will monitor such initiatives. Of particular concern is the gender disparity observed in rural areas
and the HIV/AIDS incidence among adolescent girls and teachers. The program targets such vulnerable
groups, as well as activities to rural areas and to under-served regions where the incidence of poverty is
above average.
Specifically, the program strategy seeks to increase the participation, the retention and the achievement
of girls and other students who are particularly vulnerable to drop out of school. The continuing
expansion of bilingual education (pedagogie convergente) seeks to improve the educational
opportunities of all children.
Other activities will include: geographic targeting of new schools in poorer areas; construction of smaller
than standard schools to serve more sparsely populated and usually poorer areas, thereby shortening
distances to school; introduction and expansion of preschool initiatives; inclusion of latrines and water
sources as part of standard school plans (shown to be of particular importance for girls); regional
recruitment and training of teachers to attract them to poorer areas; examining classroom practice in
order to design teacher training to decrease gender bias; revising curriculum content to provide relevant
skills and competencies and to remove gender bias; making textbooks more readable and accessible; and
piloting ways to decrease the cost of schooling for parents. The program also includes capacity building
activities to increase the ability of the ME and the regional gender units to monitor the gender and social
dimension of all policy and planning initiatives. These activities will include better data collection and
analysis and strengthening the capacity for periodic beneficiary assessments.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
School children's learning needs were brought to light through extensive classroom visits and
observations as well as analyses of the reading curriculum and teacher training practices. Preparation of
the program has also involved stakeholders and beneficiaries through: (i) teacher and parent working
groups; and (ii) beneficiary assessments, such as the "linguistic survey of teachers and students" and the
gender assessment of the PRODEC. They will continue to participate through establishment of
communal school boards and annual stakeholder consultations (as part of annual review).
- 21 -



*' 3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
c,rganizations?
Preparation of the program has involved a full range of other stakeholders and beneficiaries through: (i)
r.olding consultative meetings with civil society such as teachers' unions, student groups and NGOs; and
0li) bringing donors, NGOs and community leaders (such as school management committees under the
LIL) into the program design process and involving them in the development of the manual of
procedures (as was done for the community partnership component and the selection criteria for
sub-projects).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
They include: ME's policy and plan of action for girls' schooling; strengthening of central and regional
gender units to monitor policy implementation; ME's poverty targeting program to serve vulnerable groups
in terms of their access to learning; expansion of bilingual education (pedagogie convergente) in all types
of schools; and capacity building activities to increase the ability of the ME, the regional gender units, and
school management committees to monitor the social dimension of all relevant program activities and
outcomes.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
See Annex 1. The program will involve participatory data collection and analysis (both qualitative and
quantitative) as well as periodic beneficiary assessments.
i7 Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safe&uard policies appIv to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes * No
_-Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    O Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              O Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
(Not Applicable)
- 22 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The program design puts a premium on both pedagogical and financial sustainability. On the pedagogical
side, teacher training institutions will be supported to ensure that teaching practices learned in the training
institution endure when confronted with classroom realities. Curriculum and teaching reforms will
concentrate on helping students learn to read. The greater involvement of the private sector in textbook
development should lead to a more sustainable publishing industry in Mali, and greater availability of
textbooks and reading books over the medium and long term. A textbook distribution system will be put in
place to ensure that textbook stocks are maintained. The conversion of individual scholarships into
quality-enhancing inputs will provide sustainable financing for the program's initiatives.
The negotiated agreement with teacher unions on hiring lower cost contract teachers makes possible the
expansion of the system in a sustainable fashion. A range of measures for primary and secondary
education, including reduced repetition and increased teaching hours, will increase cost-effectiveness and
improve sustainability. The involvement of beneficiaries in the financing of education at the post-primary
level will require greater accountability of government to improving the quality and cost-effectiveness of
education services, thereby contributing to the sustainability of the ESEP objectives.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The macroeconomic situation might          M         In support of Government's reform program
deteriorate, preventing the Government               donors have agreed to support debt relief under
from fully implementing the planned                 the HIPC initiative, which would give the
program.                                             Government much greater flexibility in financing
the sector.
Market conditions in the slowly            M         Inflation is being successfully contained. Also,
expanding Mali economy might cause                   the proportion of imported materials in
prices to rise -- for example, for                   construction is low and the use of local materials
construction materials or textbooks.                is maximized. Donor assistance is available for
importing textbooks.
The pace of Government decentralization    S         Human resource constraints in central ME and
and capacity building might be too slow              the regions will continue to be addressed by
to allow ME to reach its program targets.            reforming management systems and
strengthening line units. The capacity building
program will pay particular attention to
improving financial management, procurement.
school operations, and support for teachers in
the regions and decentralized collectivities. Full
commitment to this process will speed up
implementation.
- 23 -



Low salaries and low staff morale might   M         No teachers will suffer a drop in salary. Many
undermine the effectiveness of the                  teachers, particularly in community schools, will
program.                                            see salary increases. Teachers will also benefit
from improved teaching conditions resulting
from re-activation of the CAP, wide availability
of materials such as teacher guides, and the
provision of housing, especially in rural areas.
Inadequate donor coordination might       M         ME is leading donor coordination through its
delay implementation.                               Steering Committee. Donors coordinated
closely in pre-appraisal, appraisal missions,
negotiation and will do so again during
supervision.
Project implementation might be delayed    S        Donors and Government have agreed to follow
because of ME's relative unfamiliarity              common implementation guidelines and
with Bank and other donor financial and             procedures to the extent possible (donor
procurement guidelines.                             harmonization). Until this is achieved,
procedures will be based on existing
Government arrangements, modified as
necessary. Extensive training will be provided
prior to effectiveness.
From Components to Outputs
Provision of textbooks and teaching       M         The transition to private publication of
materials might be delayed during the               textbooks will be gradual and implemented in
transition to an open market in the                 parallel with a program for the continued
publication of school textbooks.                    provision of existing textbooks.
The Ministry of Finance processes related  H        The program will strengthen ME procurement
to financial management and procurement             and financial management skills in the regions
may delay implementation                            and deconcentrated entities, and ME is working
with the MEF in reforming the Govemment's
financial management and procurement system.
Communities might not respond rapidly     M         CAP will help organize and mobilize community
enough to the school construction                   efforts. The community school program will
program or follow school design models.             provide substantial technical supervision, close
financial control and widely used designs,
adapted to the needs of the various communities.
-24 -



Institutional and behavioral constraints    H         Program activities target many of the causes of
might prevent ME from reaching its                    internal inefficiency. These activities include
targets for improvement in internal                   increasing the number of complete schools,
efficiency (dropout and repetition).                  focusing on teaching of reading, providing
support through CAP, close monitoring and
evaluation, and community involvement in
school management.
Overall Risk Rating                         S         The program is demand driven, but as in any
reform, there will be winners and those who
perceive themselves to be losers. A
communication strategy targets the latter group
in order to assure dialogue and reponsiveness.
The program design relies on approaches that
will be led and adopted by communities for
lasting benefits.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The reduction (higher education) and elimination (secondary education) of scholarship benefits will be
controversial and will require close dialogue and visible implementation of promised initiatives. The move
to communal school-board contracts for all new teachers, rather than civil service contracts, has been
discussed at length with teacher unions. It has been accepted for the present time, since it actually
improves the situation of most teachers (most recent hires have been ad hoc contracts and community
school teachers) but it can be expected that teacher unions will ultimately put pressure on government for
civil servant status for all teachers.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement, appointed an auditor for purposes of Article IV of this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower has adopted a Program Implementation Manual, in form and substance acceptable to
the Association;
(c)   the Borrower has (i) established a financial management and accounting system, satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association;
(d)   the Borrower has established mechanisms agreeable to IDA for paying community school teachers
beginning with school year 2000-01, and such payments shall be up to date;
(e)    the Borrower has completed the procurement plan for the first two years of the Project;
(f)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the amount of the Initial
Deposit.
- 25 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)    Submission by the end of the third quarter of each year, of a progress report including information
on agreed outcome and performance indicators. The report will include a summary statement on each
component, including compliance with project covenants and progress in meeting policy objectives.
(b)    Submission by December 31, 2002, of a mid-term report showing progress achieved since program
effectiveness, and a work program covering the period until project completion.
(c)    Submission by June 30, 2001, of a policy strategy and work program for privatization of textbook
publication and distribution.
(d)    Annual review of the financial model.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
EO 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Robert S. Prouty                 Nich    I. umett                  Hasan A. Tuluy
Team Leader             J          ctor    ager                    Country Manager
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
t~~~~~ ><.,fo . >|iatnce,   
____________" __O__  -                diCutor   --       onrhig X Evaluation:  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectori country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty reduction and social   Human Development Index  MOF annual report         The project macro-economic
equity.                    rating increased                                       framework will lead to
IMF and IDA macroeconomic  sufficient economic growth
Increase in average income  indicators                and poverty reduction
of the poor
There is sufficient human
resource capacity in Mali to
achieve targets for economic
growth
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
That all Malian children    95% gross enrollment, of    Annual PRODEC report;   Broad access to education
complete primary schooling of which 50% girls         Program Monitoring and     leads to poverty reduction and
good quality                                          Reporting (PMR);           greater social equity.
end-of-phase reports
80% of students reading    Standardized tests of student  Mali's macroeconomic
successfully after two years   achievement on a sampling   situation will remain stable
basis                      enough to sustain major
improvements in the
education sector.
Repetition reduced to 5% and  Annual PRODEC report;
dropout to 2%              PMR
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
To put in place a sustainable   By 2003-04, GER for Grades PMR                  Education will represent 27%/o
strategy for quality universal   1-6 will reach 70% (56% for                    of government's recurrent
primary education.          girls)                                              budget; basic, secondary and
higher education will receive
61%, 24% and 14% of this,
and teacher training will
receive 1%
By 2003-04, the repetition   PMR                    Low cost school construction
rate for primary, middle                            program proves viable.
school, and secondary will
drop to 13%, 10%, and 13%
respectively; dropout for
Grades 1-6 will drop to 5%.
By 2004, 7 of 9 regions will Regional education     National teaching reforms
implement decentralized    development plans        (use of local languages,
education development                               reading reforms, etc.) receive
plans, with needed resources                        wide support and are
and personnel                                       implemented
-27 -



By 2003-4, teaching hours   Special report on teacher  New teacher career and
for Grades 7-9 will increase  utilization          financing plans are accepted
to 18                                              by teacher unions
By 2004, 400/O of ME      PMR                       Appropriate management
non-salary operating budget is                      information systems are in
managed and spent at the                            place.
Acaddmie level
By 2003-04, 32% of secondary PRODEC annual report
admissions are for vocational
program
Beginning in 2000-01 school PRODEC annual report,
year, community school    PMR, NGO reports
teachers receive 25,000 CFAF
monthly stipend from
government
-28 -



j|.^~~~~~ it4Ign$  Evailatjon   4   Crt#Ic   ss$umPtIofs 
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Componen t:
1. Quality of Education   By 2003-04, 2500 teachers    PRODEC annual report      Government increases
1.1. Teacher quality is   graduate annually from IFMs                            recurrent expenditures to
strengthened                                                                      allow expansion in number
of teachers; teaching
conditions are improved.
Communal/community
teacher policies adopted;
teachers are motivated to
improve their professional
skills.
1.2. Basic education      The curriculum includes ECD  PMR                       Pedagogic improvement
curriculum is transformed to  and a Reading First program                         program is carried out under
suit learning needs       with reading mastery targets.                          the LIL.
particularly of preschool and
primary school children.  Decision on use of local   Site visits and training reports
languages taken and
implemented in all schools.
ECD and Reading First      CPS data, the new curriculum   Teachers and students make
program grade I through 3                              good use of the books in the
SNE model tested.                                      classroom; loss is minimized
Medersa school curriculum
adapted.
1.3. Books in core subjects   A ratio of 2 textbooks per  CPS, PMR, IPN reports,
and learning materials are    primary school student and 4  computerized stock tracking
provided to all children and   textbooks per student for  system
teachers in all types of schools Grades 7-9.
including pedagogie
convergente schools.      By start of 2002-03, 90% of   CPS, PMR, IPN reports,
teachers have guides for core computerized stock tracking
subjects grades I through 9.  system
PC primary schools textbooks CPS, PMR, IPN reports,
available for grade 1, 2, and 3. computerized stock tracking
system
- 29 -



1.4. School based learning  Team for pedagogical     PMR, IPN reviews and        School-based learning
assessment and examination    evaluation established at    studies, school surveys, exam   assessments and national
system is strengthened.    CAP and a revised system    results                   examination results are
for examination and learning                        taken into account for
assessment introduced.                               education policy decisions
1.5. Roles and responsibilities  600 school directors and 400 PMR, inservice training  School directors are willing to
of instructional leadership  pedagogic advisers receive   modules               apply new methods learned in
team (school directors,    training.                                            training.
pedagogic advisers and
teacher trainers) are refocused
and strengthened.
2. Access to Education
2.1 Coverage for          About 180 ECD centers at the Site visits, PMR, ME updated  Enrollment growth parallels
community-based ECD       community level established  targeting plan (school   expansion of school places
expanded.                 and tested.                mapping)
2.2. Coverage for enrollment  About 6,000 new classrooms  Site visits, PMR      School mapping criteria and
increased at primary and  built and furnished by end of                         consultation with the
secondary levels.         2003-04.                                              communities are taken into
account as well as the gender
and poverty targeting plans.
3 secondary schools       Site visits, PMR           Management of construction
constructed and equipped.                            is delegated to private firms or
to AGETIPE.
3. Decentralized
management and
institutional capacity.
3.1. ME organizational    ME organizational structure  Flow chart and decree.   ME is able to overcome
structure and decentralized   reviewed and reformed.                            persistent institutional and
management are strengthened.                                                    behavioral constraints that
reduce effectiveness.
3.2. Planning and policy   7 regions have developed    PMR and reports by regional  Policy studies are used as the
analysis capability built.  education improvement    directorates.              basis for continuing reform
plans and compatible with                           and plans are implemented.
national goals.
3.3. Financial management   New financial management  PMR, financial management  Training is effective and ME
system introduced.        system in place at central,    proposals.            fully implements the system.
regional, local and individual
school levels.
3.4. Introduction of policy  Each organizational unit    PMR, program           Policymakers and
monitoring and program    involved in the           implementation manual.      implementers incorporate the
evaluation system         implementation process has                           finding of M&E efforts to
developed its own monitoring                         adjust ESEP implementation.
indicators and instruments.
- 30 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Quality of Education   US$149 million             Quarterly reports available    Implementing agencies
through PMR, annual progress  within ME quickly master
(L.a) Early Childhood                                reports, annual audit reports,   Bank and donor procedures.
Development                                          disbursement data.
(I .b) Pre- and in-service                                                        Regions and departments
teacher education                                     Study of teacher utilization.    have sufficient personnel to
(l.c) Curriculum linked to                                                        prepare for implementation
basic educational needs                               Study on private education  of subsequent phases of
(I.d) Evaluation of                                   and role of public sector.  program.
learning/examination reform
(l.e) Reading First Program                                                       Donors coordinate inputs.
(I.f) Textbooks and reading
materials
(l.g) Special needs education
(1.h) Strengthening of
Medersa schools
(I.i) School health and
nutrition
(I j) Reduction of repetition
and dropout
(I .k) Non-Formal Education
(1.1) Teaching and learning
materials
(I.m) Teaching of science and
technology
(I.n) Vocational and
Professional Training
(L.o) Instructional support
(I.p) Life skills/reproductive
health courses
(I.q) Management of higher
education
(I.r) Strengthening of library
and information services
(l.s) Procurement of scientific
equipment
(I .t) Establishment of a
competitive research fund
- 31 -



2. Access to Education    US$189 million             Quarterly reports available    NGO linkages with
through PMR, annual progress government are effective.
(2.a) Extension of ECD                               reports, annual audit reports,
centers                                              disbursement data.
(2.b) Classroom construction
(2.c) Construction of training                       Study of low-cost construction
centers                                              program.
(2.d) Construction and
rehabilitation of secondary
schools
(2.e) Access to higher
education
3. Decentralized          US$203.2 million           Quarterly reports available    Decentralization receives
management                                           through PMR, annual progress support within ministry and
(3.a) Transfer of capacity and                       reports, annual audit reports,  other branches of govermnent.
resources to local governments                       disbursement data.
(3.b) Implementation of the
decentralization master plan                         Tracking study of non-wage
(3.c) Financial management                           expenditures in primary.
(3.d) Personnel management.
Study of decentralized
financial management
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Mali proposes to completely overhaul its education system over the next ten years, giving all children
access to a good basic education. The proposed reforms, known as the PRODEC, are based on one simple
principle: improving the link between the school and the community. This concept can be found in the
slogan: "one village, one school and/or CED"; it is the basis for many policy decisions: learning in Malian
languages in the early years of schooling, decentralizing management of the system, establishing school
boards at the commune level, and moving as quickly as possible toward universal primary schooling.
The ESEP provides financial support for the PRODEC reforms. It encompasses all donor support,
including that of the government of Mali. Activities are presented here under the general headings of
quality, access and decentralized management. They are further subdivided by level: basic (Grades 1-9),
secondary (Grades 10-12) and higher education. The last sentence of the introductory paragraph for each
sub-component explains which donors are providing support. The program comprises three phases:
2000-04, 2005-07, and 2008-10.
Thematic issues: H1V/AIDS and the role of women. Two cross-cutting issues will be the focus of
particular attention: HIV/AIDS and the role of women. These issues have been selected because of their
profound implications for education in Mali, and because of the potential for the education sector to make
an impact on the way they are dealt with country-wide. They will be discussed, as appropriate, for each
sub-component.
HIV/AIDS. The prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS is relatively low in Mali compared to other African
countries (4% of pregnant women, according to UNAIDS), but it is a growing epidemic that appears to
disproportionately affect the education sector. Teachers themselves may constitute an important vector for
spreading the disease. In neighboring C6te d'Ivoire, 70% of mortality among teachers is due to AIDS.
Through the PRODEC, school facilities and education sector resources will be used in limiting the spread
of the epidemic. This will include providing students and teachers with relevant information through sex
and life skills education and culturally accepted materials that focus on sexually transmitted diseases and
HIV/AIDS. Support will be given for an open dialogue and for behavior change interventions such as peer
education, parent-child dialogue, discussions on changing harmful traditional practices such as female
genital cutting (FGC), condom promotion, prompt treatment of other STD, and discussions aimed at
destigmatizing the epidemic. The media to be used include drama, songs and role plays adapted to the
cultural context.
The role of women. Issues relating to the role of women go far beyond the confines of the school. The
PRODEC, with its grounding in community/school linkages, will work with community leaders to look not
only at how girls are treated within the school system, but also how women are treated in society as a
whole. At the school level, factors known from the literature to affect girls' attendance and participation
will receive close scrutiny: the distance between home and school, the sanitary facilities available, the
extent to which teachers provide a supportive environment for girls (for example, corporal punishment is
still widely used and is cited by parents as a deterrent to girls' schooling), the opportunity cost of schooling,
the direct costs of schooling. Persisting gender biases in textbooks and other instructional materials will be
corrected; the under-representation of women in parents' associations, within the teaching corps, and at
higher levels of the education system will be addressed. Women will also be targeted through adult literacy
programs. Broader societal issues will include early marriage, work opportunities for women, female
genital cutting (FGC) and HIV/AIDS, where age disparities in early sexual relationships appear to expose
- 33 -



teenage girls to a disproportionate risk. Activities developed through experimental or pilot programs during
the first phase of the PRODEC will be taken to scale during Phases 2 and 3.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$149.00 million
Improving the quality of teaching and learning
Objective: The objective of this component is to improve the quality of teaching and learning by focusing
the education system on the basic educational needs of the individual learner. Each subcomponent has been
designed to: (i) improve student learning success, particularly for girls; and (ii) align children's education
with the needs of their community and the nation as a whole by strengthening the links between the
community and the school.
Quality: Basic Education
(1.a)  Early Childhood Development. The objective of this sub-component is to support early
childhood development, in particular of low-income children, that will serve them in good stead as they
move on to primary education. ECD activities will be designed to increase the percentage of children
entering and completing primary school. This sub-component will strengthen existing community based
ECD programs. It will help communities develop new initiatives (working with women's groups and
teachers in the Koranic schools, for example, to better provide for the individual learning, nutritional and
health needs of young children). A national commission will coordinate this sub-component. It is headed by
the Directorate for Pre-school and Special Education, with representatives of the Ministries of Education,
Health, and Social Development. This Commission will have representatives at the Academie and CAP
levels. IDA will support this initiative.
Thematic issues: A specific objective is that girls will constitute at least half of the enrollment at ECD
centers. Communities will work collaboratively to ensure quality day-care support (this burden currently
falls disproportionately on women and young girls, many of whom do not go to school because of the need
to care for younger siblings). The impact of AIDS on pre-school children will be the object of study (both
for AIDS orphans and young children who themselves are HIV-positive). This component will also address
the issue of FGC.
Phase 1: Two key activities will be implemented: (a) new models and materials will be tested with
communities and about 180 new ECD centers will be opened. An integrated approach will be developed
emphasizing nutrition, health, cognitive and psycho-social development, as well as family literacy and
management of ECD centers. At the central level, support will be given to establishing policy and
standards, and creating IEC programs (Information, Education, Communication). At the decentralized
level, NGOs and private sector operators will be strengthened in their ability to work with communities on
ECD issues; (b) existing programs will be improved to adopt an integrated approach.
The integrated model will be evaluated and lessons learned will constitute the basis for an ECD manual of
procedures to be developed for Phase 2. The training of 300 monitors to be recruited by communities will
be carried out by the ECD network, whose curriculum will be revised to this end. About 550 education
sector personnel (central ministry, regional directors, CAP directors, and ECD center directors) will be
trained to develop and evaluate ECD programs. The CAP will provide in-service training of the parent
assocations and community care givers from the new 180 ECD centers and current ECD monitors. The
program will also provide practical training in ECD to 250 Koranic school teachers and 25 women's
-34 -



groups (about 250 women). The work with women's groups will include sensitization to FGC issues.
Phase 2: Promising community-based ECD initiatives from Phase I will be taken to scale in collaboration
with stakeholders. An ECD manual of procedures will be prepared. Links between ECD managed by
communities and local governments will be strengthened as part of government's program to reach UPE in
Phase 3.
Phase 3: This phase would be a time to strengthen sustainability and replicability of ECD programs.
Since education sector management would be decentralized, particular focus will be given to the quality
control role of the CAP, and on ensuring that ECD activities become a routine part of the transition to
primary schooling.
(1.b)  Pre- and in-service teacher education. An average of about 2500 new teachers will be recruited
and trained each year for the next ten years, for an annual net increase ofjust over 2000 teachers. All new
teachers will be hired on the basis of contracts signed with the commune council. Teacher training will be
provided at 10 pre-service (IFM) and 55 in-service (CAP) training centers. An annual training and
management plan seeks to ensure that the CAP and IFM are used cost-effectively and that the quality of all
teachers is improved. This plan provides a transition from the current ad hoc emergency training program
that is managed at the AE level with few resources and, little quality control.
Policies will be developed to align teachers' pre-service and in-service training with the new primary
education curriculum. This includes emphasis on the pedagogie convergente methodology, the emphasis
on reading and writing, and the expansion of multigrade teaching. Issues related to school health,
particularly HIV/AIDS and malaria will be integral part of the new curriculum. Each Grade 7-9 teacher
will be trained to cover a family of subject matter areas. Teacher candidates will be recruited at the
baccalaurnat level for a two-year training program (I year of pre-service training and 1 year of supervised
teaching). In the event that insufficient students at the baccalaureat level can be recruited, the recruitment
process would be extended downward, with the training program increased to three years during the first
phase of the program. During this phase, the government will put in place the necessary mechanisms to
systematically enroll baccalaureat graduates in the IFM. The pre-service IFM will collaborate with the
in-service CAPs and with designated primary schools.
Given the low operating budgets and the vast distances that separate many schools, the current inspectorate
system simply cannot be expected to provide adequate teacher supervision. The CAP training program will
focus on teachers' identified needs in order to improve the quality of the training. This will then replace the
existing in-service training system. Training programs will be developed for school directors, pedagogic
counselors, and CAP directors allowing them to provide effective instructional support. These programs
will target Mali's 3,000 school directors, 400 pedagogic advisors, 40 inspectors and 240 teacher educators.
Thematic issues: Sensitivity to gender issues will be incorporated into both pre- and in-service teacher
training. The percentage of women among teacher candidates will increase from about 34% in 2000 to
50% by the end of the ten-year period. Similarly, teacher recruitment policies will be improved to increase
the number of women teaching in rural areas. Modules dealing with HIV/AIDS and FGC will be
developed both for pre-service and in-service teacher education.
Phase 1: Teachers' pre-service and in-service training goals include: (i) training and hiring about 2 500
teachers each year, while testing new ways to organize and supervise student teaching; (ii) designing a
national pre-service and in-service training program; (iii) developing and implementing the new pre-service
and in-service training curriculum, including pedagogie convergente, gender sensitivity training and issues
- 35 -



related to school health, HIV/AIDS and malaria; (iv) developing an in-service training strategy at the
national, regional and local level. This strategy must include the monitoring and supervision methods with
particular emphasis on the upgrading process for school directors, pedagogic counselors, and CAP
directors to enable them to fulfill their expected roles during the effectiveness of the PRODEC. The
institutions responsible for in-service training at the local, regional and national levels will be strengthened.
These institutions include the school (pedagogic teams), the CAP, the IFM, and the National Center for
In-service Training; (v) increasing the percentage of women among new teachers from 34% in 2000 to 40%
in 2004; and (vi) providing IFM with an operating budget sufficient for basic operating needs. In-service
modules, developed in the CAP, will be tested in a sample of schools, and regional and local training plans
will be adopted. 600 school directors and 400 pedagogic advisors will receive training based on the new
modules. Pre-service and in-service training programs will also be developed and respond to the special
needs of the community and communal schools, such as teaching in multigrade or multilingual classrooms.
Phase 2: Innovations introduced in Phase I will be evaluated and expanded as appropriate. 2500 school
directors will receive training based on the new modules; refresher courses will be offered to all 400
pedagogic advisors in the CAP. The percentage of women among new teachers will increase from 40% to
45%
Phase 3: Follow-up of innovations from earlier phases. Introduction of changes in pre-service and
in-service programs based on feedback through the assessment of student learning. Quality control of
efforts to strengthen the instructional leadership role of school directors and CAP personnel will be
established. The percentage of women among new teachers will increase from 45% to 50%.
(1.c)  A curriculum linked to basic educational needs. A new curriculum will be developed in
compliance with the provisions of the overall curriculum framework. Substantial evidence exists in Mali
through the pedagogie convergente experience that the use of children's first language as the medium of
instruction improves learning. The new curriculum for basic education provides for mother tongue
instruction and a transition to French. Leaming outcomes will be defined for each of the four cycles of
basic education. Curriculum content will emphasize reading, writing and critical thinking. The curriculum
is organized around five content areas: (i) language and communication, (ii) technology, math, and
science, (iii) personal development, (iv) arts, and (v) social sciences. The competency-based curriculum
allows for easy integration of such innovative approaches as the environmental studies program (PFIE),
health and nutrition, and family life education (EVF/EMP). A curriculum development unit (UDC) will be
created. It will be an integral part of the National Center for Education. In addition, regional and local
teams will be put in place. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be organized throughout the program.
Thematic issues: Based on past observations (Tembon and Maiga, among others), it is expected that girls
will benefit disproportionately from the increasing use of national languages. The closer linkages with the
community will make it easier to integrate life skills messages, including age-appropriate curriculum
dealing with WHV/AIDS and reproductive health.
Phase 1 : The new curriculum for Grades 1, 2, 3 and 4 will be developed and implemented. The
curriculum for Grades 5 and 6 will be prepared and pilot tested. The curriculum for Grades 7 through 9
will be prepared. UDC facilities will be upgraded and equipped. Regional and local teams will receive
computer equipment. The Academie directors will establish representative commissions to set the school
calendar as a function of local realities and needs, within national guidelines. Monitoring and evaluation
activities will be organized during the program.
- 36 -



Phase 2: The new curriculum for Grades 5 and 6 will be implemented; the curriculum for Grades 7
through 9 will be pilot tested and implemented. The cercies will take responsibility for setting the school
calendar, within national guidelines.
Phase 3: This phase will help consolidate achievements of the first two phases and reinforce local
capacity for instructional management, for monitoring the implementation of the curricula in line with
identified needs; and revisions as appropriate.
(1.d) Evaluation of learning outcomes/examination reform The monitoring and evaluation system
planned under the PRODEC would undertake central and school-level assessment of student learning, and
help teachers use in-class testing to better monitor and support the learning progress of individual students.
A diagnostic program to test the reading skills of children in schools would be adopted. This
sub-component aims to: (i) provide teacher training for curriculum-based assessment of learning; (ii)
develop standardized tests in French, in math, in science, and in the national languages; and (iii) carry out
periodic evaluations of the education system using the baseline of progress in basic skills. Past experience
under PASEC (Programme d Analyse des Systemes Educatifs des Pays de la Confemen) shows that over
50% of pupils fall short of basic reading skills. This component will provide links to regional assessment
initiatives. It will also set the stage for reforming the national examination system.
Thematic issues: Evaluations of the education system will provide reliable information about the extent to
which it is succeeding in terms of gender equity, and student understanding and behavior regarding
IIV/AIDS.
Phase 1. At the central level: development of standardized tests; pre-testing evaluation instruments, data
collecting from representative samples of Grade 4 classrooms in the different schools; data collection, entry
and analysis; preparation and dissemination of reports. At the local level: development of a training
program for teachers and school directors in one region on the better design and use of in-class diagnostic
testing.
Phase 2. At the central level: development of item banks; pre-testing of evaluation instruments, data
collecting from representative samples of classrooms for Grades 2 and 6; data collection, entry and
analysis; preparation and dissemination of reports. At the local level: training of teachers and school
directors in remaining regions on the better design and use of in-class diagnostic testing. Pre-service
training would include modules on modern methods for evaluating student learning. Impact assessment of
the training programs would be conducted.
Phase 3. The process of collecting data on student learning would be integrated into ME budgets. Annual
evaluations of the education system would be carried out by a multidisciplinary assessment team. These
evaluations would look at the impact of PRODEC activities on student learning, with recommendations for
change as appropriate.
(1.e) Reading First Program. Universal Primary Completion requires that children learn to read and
write with understanding early in their school experience. Schools will be helped to develop a true culture
of reading. The proposed reading program, entitled "Reading First", aims to teach all children to read well
during the first years of schooling. Parents are seen as full partners with the school in this program.
The reading program will be implemented during the first phase in about 345 existing pedagogie
convergente schools. The program will become an integral part of the pedagogie convergente expansion
- 37 -



plan and support overall curriculum reform in terms of pedagogy and content. The initial teaching of
reading under this program will be conducted in the language spoken by the child's family during the first 4
years of primary education. Literacy training will be provided to family members at the same time as the
child is learning to read at school. Parents will be encouraged to help their child with homework.
Supplemental reading and other materials will be made available for the home, complementing reading
nooks to be established in all classrooms. Each child will have the opportunity each day to read out loud to
a classmate, to read silently in the reading nook, and to listen to and understand a story read by the teacher.
The reading nook will have about 20 to 30 reading books in local languages and in French.
Thematic issues: The rate of dropout among girls in Mali is much higher than that for boys. The family
literacy program will provide a particular focus on girls.
Phase 1: The first phase will provide for development and implementation of the Reading First Program in
345 pedagogie convergente schools. Specific reading goals for students in the first years of primary
education will be defmed. Assessment tools will be developed. The list of recommended books will be
established by an ad hoc committee put in place by the Ministry of Education. The selected books will be
procured through a national bidding process. Malian publishers will be encouraged to produce textbooks
that are required and not available on the market. The program will be developed simultaneously at all
grade levels using local languages as well as French, with a particular emphasis on Grades One and Two.
As the pedagogie convergente initiative is generalized, the program will be brought into harmony with the
new methodologies for the use of local languages in the national curriculum. Norms for construction will
include space for reading nooks in each classroom or school. Training programs for teachers will instruct
them in use of the reading nooks, improving the teaching of reading and writing, and setting standards
grade by grade. Local or international NGO will be identified to develop the complementary school-based
literacy programs for parents in collaboration with the schools.
Phase 2: Activities of the Reading First program will become an integral part of the expansion plan of the
pedagogie convergente schools to all regions of the country by the end of this phase. A small grants
program may be developed on a competitive basis to provide additional funding for school improvement
initiatives based on the Reading First program.
Phase 3: The reading nook concept will be further extended to the creation of small classrooms and school
libraries for Grades 7-9. If the small grants program has proven viable, its financing could be provided at
this phase through funds made available to local school districts as part of the decentralization program.
(ii)   Textbooks and reading materials. This sub-component seeks to ensure that basic textbooks and
reading materials are available without charge to all basic education students (Grades 1-9). Existing
textbooks will be reprinted and distributed. A textbook rental system will be implemented for Grades
10-12. A workshop will be organized to make the decision whether to go with a multiple-title system
(several different series per subject area) or a single-title system. If the multiple-title system is selected,
publishers will be invited to propose textbook series based on curricula and national standards to be
developed (taking into account the pedagogie convergente model). The best books or manuscripts will be
selected by a national textbook review panel. Academie d'Enseignement (AE) or cercle-level commissions
will choose among the approved series. The approach should lead to competition that will improve quality,
add diversity to the system, and generally improve the curriculum, service delivery and cost-effectiveness.
The textbook and reading materials loan program is designed to promote subject-specific learning as well
as overall demand for reading. Government will budget a substantial increase in recurrent expenditures for
this sub-component, and reform the way it procures instructional materials. IDA will support ME for this
sub-component.
- 38 -



Phase 1: (a) Reprinting textbooks in French and acquiring the sample series for primary (this will include
an addendum on HIVIAIDS to some existing textbooks; (b) acquisition of textbooks and library books for
middle school and general secondary;
(c) printing textbooks in national languages for grades 4 to 6; (d) designing and implementing a textbook
loan system for Grades 1-6 and a rental system for Grades 7-12; (e) designing and implementing a
computerized monitoring system for textbook acquisition and distribution; (f) creating a textbook
management unit within the DAF; (g) creating a commission for selecting and approving textbooks; (h)
workshop on choice of single or multiple series per subject area; (i) adopting a textbook policy (specifying
the number of required books per grade level as well as the textbook per student ratio and the number of
teacher guides); (j) designing appropriate manuscripts for textbooks for the new Grade I and 2 programs;
(k) organizing workshops to reinforce in-country capacity for drafting, illustration, editing and graphic
design of textbooks; (1) study tours in other African countries that have good experiences in textbook
procurement at the school level; and (m) training in the use of the new textbooks.
Phase 2: (a) Adoption and implementation of the system selected; (b) publishing and distribution of
textbooks in national languages designed under the Improving of Learning in Primary School Project; (c)
publishing and distribution of textbooks for Grades One and Two; (d) designing, publishing and
distribution of textbooks for Grades 3-6; (e) training of teachers in using the new books; (f) organizing
workshops to reinforce in-country capacity for drafting, illustration, editing and graphic design of
textbooks; and (g) construction of appropriate classrooms in new schools or schools to be renovated, for
preserving textbooks.
Phase 3: (a) Designing, publishing and distribution of textbooks in national languages; (b) training of
teachers in using new textbooks; (c) organizing workshops to reinforce in-country capacity for drafting,
illustration, editing and graphic design of textbooks; and (d) construction of appropriate classrooms in new
schools or schools to be renovated, for preserving textbooks.
(1.g)  Special needs education. The objective of this sub-component is to develop a model for providing
equal educational opportunity for particularly marginalized students, including the thousands of street
children and those with handicaps or special learning needs. These children have generally been overlooked
in the Malian education system. Yet investments in these children may be among the most effective that a
system can make, helping them to become active members of society. As Mali moves toward Universal
Primary Education, it will need to develop creative ways to identify and provide support for those with
special learning needs. This fits well with pedagogic reforms focusing on the individual learning needs of
children; active teaching methods will be designed to identify and support various groups of children whose
needs are not currently being met by the system, including those with physical and mental handicaps. IDA
and other donors to be identified will support SNE.
Thematic issues: The implications of special needs education in Mali for gender issues, or for HIV/AIDS
are not well known at this point. A World Bank study of street children in Bamako, conducted in July,
2000, concludes that while most street children are boys, there is a significant number of young girls,
including some who are pushed by poverty into prostitution at a very early age. The particular gender
issues associated with these marginalized children will be explored in the first phase of the program.
Education on IHIV/AIDS and reproductive health will be part of any program that is developed.
Phase 1: Support will be provided for: (i) a national survey on the status of handicapped children,
including an inventory of resources, a prevalence study, and a KAP survey (Knowledge, Attitudes,
- 39 -



Practices); (ii) a follow-up analysis of the various categories of Bamako street children identified during the
July, 2000 study; (iii) development of policies and strategies aimed at mainstreaming students with special
needs; (iv) identification and implementation of pilot interventions. This sub-component will be developed
in coordination with other Ministries, with NGOs, and with professional groups and interest groups
addressiong these issues. Possible gender implications of SNE policies will be identified and explored.
Phase 2: The activities in this phase will be determined by results of the pilot studies carried out during
Phase 1. Support will be given to help schools mainstream children with mental or physical handicaps.
Existing special education centers would be equipped as resource centers to this end. Curriculum modules
dealing with special needs education will be included for pre- and in-service teacher education. Training
will be provided to IFM and CAP personnel, with additional training available for those interested in
specializing in this area. Plans will be put in place for development of a specialized course at the
university, for implementation in Phase 3. Promising pilot interventions for street children will be
extended, and the scope of intervention will move beyond Bamako to other urban areas in the country. It is
expected that government will enter into contractual arrangements with NGO to implement most of these
activities.
Phase 3: The program of special needs education will be further consolidated, in part through development
of a specialized course at the university, and the graduation of the first cohort of Malian-trained SNE
teachers. Ongoing NGO-implemented activities will be extended. Further support will be given to help
schools to provide specialized services as needed, with a continuing emphasis on mainstreaming
complemented by establishment of specialized centers where appropriate.
(1.h)  Strengthening of the Medersa schools. The Medersa schools (constituting 15% of total
enrollment) are private schools offering Koranic instruction and a range of subject areas that correspond
poorly to the official curriculum. Arabic is taught as a subject and is the medium of instruction. The
programs in these schools are generally considered to be of poor quality, and students are almost never able
to go on to further studies in the public system. The purpose of this sub-component is to work with
Medersa personnel in order to harmnonize the programs with the new official curriculum and to be able to
offer equal educational opportunities to Medersa graduates. The initial focus will be on improving the
teaching of French and its introduction as medium of instruction. IDA will support this sub-component.
Thematic issues: The Medersa schools appear to attract a significantly higher percentage of girls at the
upper primary levels than do the public schools. This means that the effort to harmonize programs may be
of particular importance for girls' persistence in schooling. Collaboration with the Medersa personnel will
be necessary in order to find culturally appropriate ways of addressing the need for life skills training in the
context of the growing HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Phase 1: This phase will be given over to the design of Medersa new curricular materials that better match
the official program. A unit created for this end will be responsible for the harmonization of curriculum
and the development of materials. This phase will allow the provision of in-service professional
development opportunities for about 750 teachers, Arabic-speaking pedagogic advisors and 400 French
teachers; construction and equipping of at least one IFM; preparation of textbooks and teachers' guides for
Grades 1,2,3 and 4; development and implementation of a Medersa program for teaching French as a
second language.
Phase 2: In-service training of 1000 teachers and 250 French teachers ; provision of reading nooks in
Medersa classrooms (French and Arabic); preparation of additional teachers' guides and textbooks;
-40 -



provision of Arabic-language software for the Ministry unit responsible for the Medersa schools.
Phase 3: In-service training in evaluation for 690 teachers, 120 teachers of French, and Arabic-speaking
pedagogic advisors; creation of a team of in-service trainers at the National Center for In-service Training.
(1.i)   School health and nutrition. Malnutrition and poor health among students of school age have
been linked to lack of academic success and an increased likelihood that children will not complete the
primary cycle. Therefore, the objective of this component will be to develop a low-cost program of
micro-nutrient supplements and deworming, focusing in particular on areas where irrigation programs have
greatly increased the incidence of such diseases as schistosomiasis.
The goal of the school health program in Mali is to improve students' learning and achievement. It is in
this context that the Ministry of Education has made school health and nutrition an essential means of
improving the quality of learning. This strategy is constituted with four areas of intervention: (i) the health
policy at the school level; (ii) procurement of water and sanitation; (iii) education for health; and (iv)
nutrition and hygiene. These areas of intervention are similar with the FRESH framework (a partnership
between WHO, UNICEF, UNESCO, and the World Bank). The implementation of this strategy will
require a close collaboration between the ministries of health and education. It will also require the
involvement of NGOs. Local, regional and national intervention programs will be supported as well.
These programs will aim at preparing and organizing education officials, teachers, communities and local,
regional and national education institutions to be aware of social, economic and demographic changes that
will be encountered by parents, schools and students. This sub-component will be supported by the above
donors, and by the World Food Organization (PAM).
Thematic issues: Parent surveys have often indicated that parents cite health concerns and sexual safety
as of particular concern preventing them from sending daughters to school. This program will address
these concerns directly. The program will also develop new partnerships in order to find culturally
appropriate ways of providing life skills training in the context of the growing prevalence of diseases such
as malaria and HIV/AIDS epidemic.
Phase 1: Development of deworming and micronutrient supplement programs. Training of school health
team; establishment of procurement protocols, etc. Development of age- and culture-appropriate
curriculum dealing with life skills and reproductive health issues. Provision of teaching materials and a
training program in reproductive and life skills will also be supported by the program. Active collaboration
with NGOs will be sought.
Phase 2: The deworming program will betaken to national scale; the program for reproductive health will
be extended.
Phase 3: Follow-up to Phases 1 and 2, as appropriate.
(l.j) Reduction of repetition and dropout
The objective of this sub-component is to improve the internal efficiency of the education system in Mali
which is characterized by high drop-out and repetition rates. In 1998 in Mali, the retention rate in primary
school was 55% and only 26% of the students entering primary school reached the last year of the cycle. In
addition large disparities can be observed between sexes and between urban and rural areas with
particularly high repetition and drop-out rates for girls and children living in rural areas. In order to
-41 -



address this issue and reduce repetition and drop-out rates, Mali has committed to the development of
innovative and efficient methods to improve students' performance, at least at the primary level.
The proposed component thus aims to put in place a tutoring program in which the best students will assist
the weakest under the teachers' guidance and with the support of the communities. This additional
assistance will give poorly performing students an opportunity to better understand classes and improve
their performance. The initiative will focus on mathematics and reading. The program could also take one
or several of the following three forms: (i) peer tutoring program where the best students of a classroom
will help their poorly performing friends under the supervision of a teacher; (ii) individual classes for
students with specific needs offered by the teacher or the family; and (iii) remedial courses offered during
the vacation break.
The tutoring program will also give teachers the opportunity to better understand the weaknesses of their
pupils and address them, possibly in collaboration with the parents. The teachers will assess students'
progress and the parents better informed of their children's achievement will be more willingly involved in
their schooling. This accrued involvement will translate into the creation of mothers' associations for their
greater participation in school activities and their children's success. The members of those associations
will have the opportunity to receive training and literacy courses in order to be able to participate in school
organization and management. The creation of mothers' associations will be done in parallel with social
consultation and mobilization in order to inform and mobilize parents, traditional and administrative
decision-makers, opinion leaders and any influential person on the importance, the need and the advantages
of girls' schooling. Finally, private sector participation will be encouraged to provide loans to those
associations in order to allow them to undertake income generating activities whose profits could later be
used to finance the activities of other mothers' associations.
At the end of the school year, the children who have made the most progress will receive some prizes
awarded by local personalities. In addition to the tutoring program which will assist children during the
whole school year, a pilot remedial program will be developed to allow students with difficulties in just one
or two subjects at the end of the year, to take classes during the vacation break at the end of which a test
will determine their ability to pass to a higher grade the following school year. This will further reduce the
repetition rate within the primary cycle.
Thematic issues: School statistics show that girls' access and retention rates are often lower than that of
boys. Thus in Mali, fewer girls than boys have the opportunity to go to school, and once they enroll, they
have fewer chances of remaining in school because they repeat and/or drop-out in larger number.
Additionally, children in rural areas have more difficulty entering and completing primary school. This
situation derives from problems linked to supply and/or demand. Since the PRODEC emphasizes supply
among other things, this initiative will help stimulate demand as a result of the links established with
parents and communities through the mothers' associations. Those linkages will facilitate parents'
sensitization to educational issues, as well as promote their greater adhesion and participation to the
success of their children in school. Moreover, participating teachers will receive training on gender issues.
Phase 1: In the first phase of the program, the tutoring and remedial activities will be set up and the
mothers' associations created in three regions where repetition and dropout rates are particularly high.
Those regions are Gao, Kayes and Mopti. During this first four-year phase, the initiative will seek to
reduce repetition rates from 23% in 1998-1999 to 13% in 2003-2004. At the same time, drop-out rates
should decrease by 8% to 5% during the same period. This first phase will also aim to develop a national
policy to reduce school wastage. That national policy will take into account regional policies. The laws
should also be revised in order to allow students' admission to the next grade if they pass the test given at
-42 -



the end of the remedial program during the vacation break. A specific instrument will be developed to
allow formative and summative evaluations of the initiative.
Phase 2: In phase 2 of the PRODEC, the innovations introduced during the previous phase will be
evaluated and extended to other schools countrywide in order to consolidate the efforts made to improve the
quality of education in Mali. This extension phase will mainly be done on the basis of lessons learnt during
the preceding four years. The evaluation and monitoring mechanism put in place during the first phase of
the project will be revised as appropriate.
Phase 3: In phase 3 of the PRODEC, the gains of the first two phases will be consolidated and a
mechanism put in place for the preparation of a sustainable policy to reduce school wastage and increase
parents' confidence in the Malian education system. This policy will naturally result in a larger number of
children completing primary school and entering secondary school, which will necessitate at the end of the
second phase considerable reflection on the development of secondary school.
(1.k) Non-formal education. Non-formal education in Mali is managed by the govermment through
functional literacy programs for those above 16 years of age run at CAF centers, and programs for
out-of-school youth between the ages of 9 and 15 run at CED centers. The government proposes the
promotion of CEDs in the coming years in order to provide an education to a significant target population
in the context of the "one village, one school and/or a CED" initiative. The overall purposes of this
initiative are strongly supported by the donor community. IDA will provide support for feasibility studies
with the goal of identifying ways to support Government/NGO partnerships for delivery of a non-formal
basic education. The existing CED approach will be appraised in order to use an action research context to
improve content. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be organized throughout program
implementation. Communes will be responsible for developing CAF in partnership with the Ministry
branch offices and in accordance with locally identified need. In addition, the family literacy program,
undertaken through the Improving Learning in Primary Schools project, will be extended and consolidated.
Thematic issues: Most illiterate adults in Mali are women. Non-formal education programs at all levels
will aim to ensure at least a one-to-one participation ratio. This is seeh as a crucial part of any UPE
initiative, since evidence elsewhere demonstrates that mothers who complete literacy training classes are
much more likely to send their children to school. The CED program in particular, targeting 9- to 15-year
old students, is seen as a prime venue for transmission of messages related to fIV/AIDS. This will be
included in the NFE curriculum through this program.
Phase 1: The short-term goal of increasing system capacity for delivery of NFE will include: (i) training
to strengthen the teaching and language skills of literacy agents, Functional Literacy Zone directors and
CED educators; (ii) training to strengthen the management capacity of Village Literacy Committees and
CED management committees; (iii) improved partnerships among CAF, CED, NGOs, and others; (iv)
improvements to curriculum content, including strong messages about STD and HIV/AIDS behavior
change; (v) establishing the framework for extending CAF and CED activities; and (vi) the financing of
1,206 CED teachers. The intent is to make the NFE programs far more flexible in responding to locally
determined needs and interests. Monitoring and evaluation activities will be organized. Partnerships with
NGO will be tested as a way of revitalizing the literacy program. Several approaches to strengthening the
management committees of the CED will be tested, including NGO and CAP support. It is expected that at
least half of students in the program will be female.
Phase 2: This phase will see the expansion of activities and strategies tested in the first phase, detailed
-43 -



objectives for expanding the CAF and CED will be defined: (i) expansion of the CAF and CED programs
and coverage; (ii) fundamentally new ways of operating for the CAF and CED centers, including much
closer partnerships with NGO; (iii) an evaluation of the new curricula; and (iv) implementation of new
supervisory approaches. Post-literacy activities will be introduced, based on local realities. Monitoring and
evaluation activities will be organized.
Phase 3: This will be a phase of extension and consolidation. It will maintain the focus on literacy
training for women, with closer links to productive activities and increasing reliance on NGO. It is
expected that with increasing coverage of primary schooling, the target audience for CED centers will be
reduced.
Quality: Secondary Education-General, Technical and Professional
(1.1)   Teaching and learning materials. The objective of this sub-component is to ensure widespread
availability of textbooks and to create sustainable libraries at all secondary schools (general, technical and
vocational). It will do this by establishing specific school-level budgets and responsibility for the
following: (i) purchasing books and equipment, (ii) establishing inventory and maintenance procedures for
all schools, (iii) setting up a textbook rental program, and (iv) replacing library books and textbooks on an
annual basis. School-level budgets will come largely from the transformation of individual student
scholarships into school grants. At the central level, funding will be made available for carrying out an
evaluation of the library system. This component will be supported by IDA during the first phase of the
program, with increasing government financing as the scholarship programs give way to school grants.
Phase 1: Government/IDA will fnance an initial stock of books and operationalization of a textbook rental
program. An initial inventory of all libraries will be conducted: collections, lending procedures, financing
and management structures. Evaluation protocols will be developed for use in each region.
Phases 2 and 3: Renewal and strengthening of the textbook rental program; evaluation of government and
donor procurement protocols; extension and ongoing evaluation of the library system.
(1.m) The teaching of science and technology. Science teaching in Mali has tended to be a theoretical
exercise, with only limited facilities available for practical testing and experimentation. Under this
sub-component, mini-laboratories will be developed in combination with the use of science demonstration
kits (based on successful experience in South Africa and elsewhere). A computer lab will be created in
each secondary school, with Internet access. The curriculum will be modified to provide for computer
sciences. An operating budget will be made available at the school level for financing the computer labs
and for purchasing science equipment, using school grant funds freed up from the phasing out of individual
scholarships (see above). A technical support unit will be created at the central ministry level for
maintaining computers and for helping schools to purchase science equipment on an ongoing basis. At the
same time, regional and local technical units will be created for the maintenance of these materials. School
principals will be responsible for managing the scientific and technological equipment put in place. New
curricula will be designed and implemented. A particular emphasis will be put on training technical and
vocational training teachers.
Phase 1: The teaching programs will be redefined, with new first-year programs prepared. Test schools
for the mini-laboratory/science kits will be selected by the regions and teaching modules will be prepared,
emphasizing application and demonstration skills. Technical support urL will be created and training
-44 -



programs will be implemented for the members of these units. Teachers in the test schools will be trained
in the use of the kits. An evaluation will be carried out. Computer centers will be created in 50% of
secondary schools (60), and teachers will be trained. An action plan will be prepared for the use of Internet
countrywide on the basis of third-generation high frequency wireless technologies.
Phase 2: In the event of successful testing of the science kit approach, it will be taken to scale during this
phase. An evaluation will be performed of the technical support unit created at the central, regional and
local levels for maintaining computers and for helping schools to purchase science equipment on an
ongoing basis. Training sessions will be continued and the procurement policy for these materials will be
eventually revised. In the event that the approach does not prove viable, alternative approaches will be
tested during this phase. Appropriate science materials will be provided to all secondary schools along
with training for all teachers. Wireless technologies will be further tested in middle schools located in the
Phase I test area. The first-year program will be implemented and second- and third-year programs will be
developed and tested.
Phase 3: The science kit/mini-laboratory approach will be further developed as needed. Internet coverage
will be extended downward to Grades 7-9, with training of teachers and school personnel and purchase of
equipment. Technical support units will be provided at the regional level, modeled on Phase I and Phase 2
experience at the central level. The procurement policy for these materials will be revised as appropriate.
Corrective measures will be taken to deal with any difficulties identified during program evaluation.
(1.n)  Vocational and Professional Training. In Mali, vocational and professional training suffers from
a lack of qualified personnel in the main areas for economic development of the country, such as the
Agro-food industry, and maintenance services. The new demand-based policy for this sector has been
prepared and is based on private sector partnerships with the ME, with particular emphasis on the training
of teachers. New curricula will be designed and implemented. In this context, two secondary-level
vocational training schools and a University Technological Institute (IUT) will be created and equipped as
per the needs listed above. These schools will be managed in partnership with the private sector. In
addition, the decentralization policy will provide vocational training schools with a status allowing them to
receive grants and provide services. Based on the lessons learned during implementation of the Vocational
Training Consolidation Project, school grants could be financed on a competitive basis at the school level.
The UFAE could also take part in such an approach. The second and third phases will be geared toward
the implementation of the new policy, including an investment plan and the scaling up of the financing
mechanism tested in the first phase. This component will be financed by IDA and other donors.
Phase 1: The program will emphasize the implementation of the new defined policy focusing on
demand-oriented aspect, based on private sector partnerships with the ME, and with particular emphasis on
the training of teachers. The government's VET policy and strategies in partnership with private sector
enterprises will be updated. An institutional analysis of the Directorates of technical education and
vocational training will be carried out and new terms of reference will be prepared for these units. An
operating manual for the school-level grants will be developed, with pilot testing. Six vocational training
schools and IUT will be opened in the areas of agro-food industries and maintenance, among others. The
Institute for Teacher Training for Vocational and Professional Training will be built and equipped.
Phase 2: In the event of successful testing of the school-level grants, these will be scaled up to the national
level. An investment plan for the implementation of the new policy will be developed; new financing
mechanisms will be based on these results. Internal and external evaluations of training programs will be
undertaken. Phase 1 activities will be consolidated. Two new secondary-level vocational schools and an
additional IUT are planned, with private sector management.
-45 -



Phase 3: Following up on the investment plan and internal and external evaluations of training programs,
appropriate measures will be implemented to correct deficiencies.
(l.o)  Instructional support. There is currently a lack of supervision and instructional support given for
secondary school teachers. Under this program, support will be provided (i) to the Normal School (ENS)
to upgrade its teaching programs for the CAP team, (ii) to evaluate and re-orient the CAP program in order
to provide stronger school-based supervision of instruction, and (iii) to develop a management plan
followed by the CAP team, in order to assure that the instructional support calendar is feasible, and
accompanied by a sustainable financing plan.
Phase 1: Preparation of official documents dealing with the inspection function (including an overall
evaluation), recruitment into the various inspectorates, and preparation of a training plan.
Phase 2: Training of CAP personnel by specialty areas, along with mobile training teams and a
systematic evaluation of the system.
Phase 3: Implementation of remedial measures to correct deficiencies noted during the evaluations,
follow-up with a training program to increase school-level supervision of instruction, re-evaluation of the
fit between CAP duties and responsibilities and available budgets.
(l.p)  Life skills/reproductive health courses. Support will be given for the development of teaching m
aterials, and a reproductive health/life skills training program at the secondary and university levels. This
program will complement the primary school program to be developed concomitantly and will aim to
reduce the incidence of diseases with high prevalence such as malaria and HIV/AIDS. A particular
emphasis will be placed on programs targeting girls.
Thematic issues: Studies have shown that, because of age disparities in sexual relationships, adolescent
girls aged 15 through 19 are five or six times more vulnerable to  IV/AIDS than boys of the same age.
This program will develop life skills and reproductive health training with a focus on adolescent girls'
needs. The issue of female genital mutilation will also be addressed.
Phase 1: Development of a culture-appropriate curriculum dealing with life skills and reproductive health
issues for secondary and university students. Active collaboration with NGOs will be sought.
Phase 2: Consolidation of activities linked to the implementation of the curriculum.
Phase 3: Consolidation and expansion of activities carried out during Phases I and 2.
Quality: Higher Education
The program will help to improve the quality of higher education, including support for expansion of
private higher education. Given the tensions which have often characterized higher education in the recent
past, it is particularly important that an open dialogue be developed with students and professors regarding
initiatives to improve higher education. The investments described in this section require sufficient
guarantees that the attendant recurrent costs can be financed. This will require that the current emphasis
on scholarships to the detriment of quality-enhancing inputs and processes (close to 50% of the current
higher education budget is given over to scholarships) will need to progressively give way to support for
-46 -



enhanced quality, with only a limited number of scholarships maintained to support specific govermment
priorities, including the access of women to higher education.
Higher education in Mali includes four faculties of the University of Mali (FAST, FLASH, FMPOS,
FSJE), three institutes (IPR-IFRA, ISFRA, IUG) and two senior colleges (ENI, ENSup). In 1999, there
were 21,444 students. This is a sudden and dramatic increase from the 1998 enrollment of 13,847
students. Higher education accounted for 19% of the recurrent education budget (8.2 billion CFAF, of
which 4.3 billion were for scholarships) and 8% of the investment expenses of the education sector.
Operating with limited resources, without any enrollment controls, and with half of its operating budget in
the form of direct transfers to students, higher education has suffered a continuing degradation of quality
over the past years, along with an increasingly conflict-laden climate that has hindered dialogue and any
attempt to move to improve the allocation of resources. The objective of this component will be to start the
sector on the road to sustained quality, addressing policy issues up front and responding to economic and
social needs within the context of continuing budgetary constraints. IDA and the French Ministry of
Cooperation will be the main partners supporting these activities during the first phase.
(l.q) Management of higher education. Government proposes to make full use of a qualified teaching
corps to establish a high quality program in this sub-sector, with a strategy that will include: (i) short-term
improvements in the learning environment to set the stage for more significant changes to come; (ii)
in-service training programs for teaching, administrative and technical personnel; (iii) a complete overhaul
of management procedures; (iv) adequate cost control, including a reduction in the amount of scholarships
in order to increase quality; (v) giving each faculty and institution control over enrollments based on
capacity; (vi) a proactive communications policy aiming to provide transparency in the move by the
rectorate to restore quality and to re-establish a climate of cooperation and confidence among stakeholders;
(vii) the design, implementation and evaluation of a quality enhancement program; (viii) improvement of
living conditions on campus, including student services to be managed by private sector operators selected
through transparent competitive bidding processes; (ix) improving student participation in science,
economics, culture, art and sports; (x) creating partnerships with the private sector, and with national and
regional groups; (xi) promoting scientific research based on Mali development needs; (xii) creating new
two-year courses directly linked to job opportunities (linked to engineering, construction, mines, agriculture
and health); (xiii) exploration of potential for income-generating activities; (xiv) creation of community
colleges based on feasibility studies; and (xv) creating a supportive legal environment for developing
private institutions of higher education and controlling enrollment at public institutions by faculty. By
2008, it is planned that higher education in Mali will have 31,000 students, receive 14% of the education
budget, limit scholarships to 3.6 billion CFAF or less (agreement has been reached on a maximum of 3.6
billion CFAF, but this figure could be considerably reduced following the various discussions to be held on
the future of higher education and priorities to be established) and provide international quality education
corresponding to market needs.
Thematic issues: Women are significantly under-represented at the university level. While this program
will provide support at the secondary level to increase the number of women who are candidates for
university admission, it will also provide support for increasing the chances for success of those women
who are admitted to higher education. Scholarship programs and dormitory construction will give priority
to women; each faculty will be encouraged to establish gender-sensitive policies, and to seek to establish
linkages with secondary schools to increase the pipeline of female candidates.
Phase 1: During this phase the following activities will be carried out: creation of a steering committee
within the University rectorate, with inter-faculty and inter-institutional collaboration; development of
curriculum; feasibility study of community college approach; written policy for support for developing
- 47 -



private higher education; implementation of private management for dormitories; in-service training;
implementation of enrollment controls by faculty; contracting out of certain non-core services; development
of experimental Internet job creation program at the university; and implementation of a proactive
communications policy, leading to dialogue among the university community about the quality enhancement
program.
Phase 2: Implementation of first two-year courses; construction of first community college on
experimental basis; extension ofjob creation program, if successful; creation of additional dorrnitory room
space; further implementation of communications policy.
Phase 3: Continued implementation of two-year courses, with evaluation of program success; extension of
community college concept; further development ofjob creation program, if successful; further creation of
dormitory room space and other student services, depending on policies adopted to ensure that recurrent
costs are covered within the confines of the agreed budget envelope; further implementation of
communications policy.
(1.r)  Strengthening of library and information services. This program is entirely contingent on
progress in dealing with the financing of higher education so that sufficient recurrent financing is available.
It further assumes that the development of a library will be part of a systemic reform of the higher
education program, with a clear vision to be developed regarding the role of public and private providers of
higher education, financing reform (including cost recovery), close linkages between education and the
labor market, reorganization of administration of the University of Mali, development of new and more
relevant course offerings and syllabi, establishment of a viable research function, etc. Within this broader
reform context, then, the objective of this sub-component is to help restore a positive learning environment
for university students by linking an expansion of library holdings and computerized information services
to in-service training for university professors and a new focus on course content. This means the
rehabilitation and equipping of existing libraries within the Grandes Ecoles and the University faculties. In
addition, feasibility studies as well as civil works and equipment of the Central University Library will be
carried out. The construction of this library will be carried out over the first two phases of the program.
Under this sub-component, adequate budgetary resources will be made available annually to renew a core
set of books as a living, evolving collection. The provision of textbooks and supporting documentation to
be placed on reserve by professors, and the extension of study facilities will strengthen the contribution of
the library system to improved teaching. A textbook distribution system will be developed on a cost
recovery basis. In-service training and logistical support will be given to professors for preparation of
outlines and syllabuses for all courses, and for more effectively using the library and other infornation
services in their teaching.
The reconfigured library system will be at the heart of the teaching program on campus. Library
management will be restructured and progressively computerized to provide it the flexibility needed to
respond to changing programs and course content. The number of operating hours of all libraries will be
greatly increased. The program will support (a) the development of a new library concept; (b) the
construction of a new central university library; (c) construction of reading rooms with an overall seating
capacity of about 1000; (d) construction of an audio-visual room; (e) construction of a workroom for
repairing and binding books and periodicals; (f) installation of computer networks; and (g) architectural
studies and design. Given the complete lack of qualified librarians in the country, agreement will be sought
with government during negotiations that it will finance 20 scholarships for training of entry-level librarians
and 20 scholarships for training of conservator-level librarians, with financing to come from the existing
scholarship budget.
-48 -



Phase 1: The rehabilitation and equipment of existing libraries within the Grandes Ecoles and the
University faculties will be carried out. The background work for the library will be completed during this
phase: elaboration of terms of reference, preparation of bidding documents, architectural studies and
design, selection of architect and builder, and site preparation, construction and equipment of the first
modular buildings that can operate independently. In addition, an overall library concept will be developed,
placing the library within the context of a comprehensive development plan for higher education in Mali.
Phase 2: Completion of construction and opening of the library, purchase of books, training of library
personnel, training of teachers and students in use of the library, etc.
Phase 3: Ongoing upgrading of services linked to the library, evaluation of library development and
operations, annual purchase of books, continued development of library as centerpiece of pedagogic reform
of the University of Mali, provision of lending services at the library to high school students.
(l.s)   Procurement of scientific equipment. The proposed program will support the university's goal to
strengthen scientific and technological education, and to alleviate the acute shortage of laboratory
equipment and teaching materials. In-service training support will be given for professors and
teaching/laboratory assistants to reform the way tutorials and laboratory classes (travaux diriges) are
taught, making these practical experiences the centerpiece of the science courses, closely linked with and
driving the theoretical aspects of the curriculum. Professors will be helped to (a) formulate concrete and
realistic study syllabi for their students, (b) use textbooks and scientific equipment effectively in their
classes, and (c) emphasize comprehension of material, analysis, synthesis, demonstration and evaluation
rather than mere memorization of facts. The program will also finance the consolidation and sharing of
equipment through the centralization of laboratories where possible, provide additional laboratory
equipment (audio-visual equipment, computer hardware and software aligned with science education,
laboratory kits and demonstration materials) and supplies, and organize maintenance of scientific
equipment and laboratories.
Phase 1: Evaluation of needs for equipment and science materials. Training of personnel, elaboration of
bidding documents, construction of laboratories, purchase of materials and equipment for science
demonstrations, audiovisual equipment, materials and software for science teaching, and laboratory kits.
Phases 2 &3: Assessment of scientific and technological resources and needs of university research in
compliance with the national plan for research.
(1.t)   Establishment of a competitive research fund. This sub-component aims to improve the quality
of learning through scientific and technological research. The implementation of a research fund as a
complement to government financing will allow the undertaking of the following activities: (i) the designing
of a Master Plan for the development and consolidation of scientific and technical research; (ii) the
strengthening of research activities at the university level; (iii) the development of a University Press; (iv)
the promotion of linguistic research; (v) the promotion of scientific and technological research; (vi) the
promotion of pedagogical research in general and university pedagogy in particular; (vii) the dissemination
and validation of research findings; and (viii) the sensitization for the development of research. Results of
research projects should be publishable in international journals. Funds will be made available on a
competitive basis to professors or groups of professors who present research proposals deemed acceptable
by the research committee. An operational manual will describe in detail the functioning of the research
fund, with guidelines, criteria, and procedures governing the grants and allocations to be made. The
submission to IDA of an operational manual acceptable to IDA containing guidelines, criteria, and
-49 -



procedures governing the grants and allocations to be made through the research fund will be a condition of
disbursement under the component. The program will finance contributions to the research fund on a
matching basis, technical assistance, and incremental operating costs for the research committee. The
program will also support creation of a university press, a proposed African Academy of Languages, an
Institute of Languages, and an Academy of Science, based on feasibility studies to be conducted.
Phase 1: Training of personnel, establishment of research committee; granting of first research funds;
creation of on-line scientific journals for the various faculties.
Phases 2 & 3: Further extension of the research fund, with broader donor and private sector support;
support for research seminars and symposia.
Project Component 2 - US$189.00 million
Improving Access to Schooling
Objective: The purpose of this component is to rapidly increase coverage and equity, particularly at the
primary school level. This will be undertaken through creation of schools under the responsibility of the
communes. The conceptual model to be followed is the well-tested community-school approach. Local
NGO will work to "plant" hundreds of new schools each year by enlisting the support of community
members and creating community-level school boards. The schools and school boards will be nurtured by
the NGO for several years, at which point they would become eligible to be communal schools. In the first
phase, most construction contracts would be handled by AGETIPE in collaboration with local NGOs who
would ensure community involvement and ownership.
Thematic issues: The distance between home and school, the lack of latrines, the burden of household
labor: all of these factors are obstacles to girls' schooling. The poor conditions of the Medersa schools
and some of the other community schools also tend to depress enrollment rates. Reducing the maximum
distance from home to school to a maximum of 5 kilometers, building more schools, along with the
proposed rehabilitation of some of the existing schools and the construction of latrines: these measures
should improve girls' chances of going to and staying in school.
Access: Basic Education
The goal of this component is to increase access to basic education (preschool, Grades 1-9, and
non-formal) and to ensure a coherent policy environment. Achievement of this goal will require better
capacity for facilities management. The component will include: (i) equipping ECD centers; (ii) building
Grades 1-9 classrooms; and (iii) building teacher education institutes and CAP to improve instructional
support. A targeting plan will help to: (i) increase the GER to 95% ; (ii) reduce the variance in access
among regions, between urban and rural schools, and between boys and girls; and (iii) mobilize
communities to greater involvement in school management.
(2.a)  Extension of Early Childhood Development centers. A memorandum of agreement will be
prepared to clarify the roles of the ME and of other ministries in implementing ECD activities at the central
and local levels. Support to the central ministry will consist largely of definition of construction norms and
strengthening of coummnity capacity to develop ECD centers. Support at the local level will include
strengthening the capacity of NGO and other private sector service providers, and providing support for
ongoing ECD activities being carried out by communities. IDA financing will be used to purchase
equipment and materials.
- 50 -



Pbase 1: The institutional framework and implementation arrangements will be developed. The policies
and strategies will be defined. A new ECD model will be tested in about 180 ECD centers.
Phase 2: Based on what is learned during Phase 1, the ECD program will be taken to scale, based largely
on private sector initiatives in collaboration with government support structures. Government support
could also take the form of partial coverage of construction costs or provision of equipment for ECD
centers by communities. It is expected that a minimum of 5% of children aged 3-6 will be covered.
Phase 3: This phase will see the consolidation of the national policy and programs. The target is to reach
a minimum of 10% coverage of children aged 3-6 by the end of the ten-year period.
(2.b)  Classroom construction. The goal of this sub-component is to increase the number of classrooms
available in order to reach the target of 95% GER, with a priority given to rural areas and to girls' access.
In order to achieve its targets, Mali will need to build about 1800 classrooms each year (public sector) for
ten years. During the first phase, it is expected that 1,500 classrooms will be built and equipped annually;
500 classrooms will be partially renovated and equipped each year; and another 250 classrooms will be
replaced. This will be supplemented by the construction of latrines and wells or bore holes and canteens in
the northern regions. The selected minimum package for the program will be constituted of a bloc of three
classrooms plus office/storage space and two latrines with three compartmnents each. A renovation plan for
existing schools will be designed and implemented. The ME will collaborate with the ministry responsible
for wells and bore holes in order to coordinate interventions in the provision of water to the communities
that will build schools.
The type of programs, the implementation mechanisms, the costs and guidelines are described in the
Manual of Procedures. Two construction approaches are proposed: (i) a standard approach allowing
AGETIPE and other NGO to play the role of Contract Management Agencies; and (ii) an experimental
approach allowing the communities to receive grants and to build classrooms in keeping with the
participative philosophy of the community schools. It is expected that 300 classrooms will be built during
the first two years through this participative approach. The cost of a furnished minimum package is 8.5
million CFAF per classroom in southern regions and 11.5 million CFAF per classroom in northern regions.
The government has opted for a decentralized school mapping process. Consequently, CPS and branch
offices of ME will receive support to carry out this activity efficiently. The communities will be helped to
participate fully in the school mapping process. The Ministry of Education and local governments will
define norms for managing the process to reduce disparities in access to education.
The conclusions on the study of the maintenance system of schools and other facilities (CAP and IFM),
taking into consideration the breakdown of responsibility for recurrent costs (national budget, local
government and communities) must be validated and approved by the various donors. ME will also
prepare the terms of reference and will carry out a study of facilities management during phase 1.
ME will establish norms and criteria for resource allocation for construction and renovation. The criteria
selected for the school mapping will be taken into consideration. These norms will pay particular attention
to the proposed increase in multigrade schooling. The central government, the local governments, the
private sector and external partners will provide financing for this sub-component (IDA, the Netherlands,
OPEC, UNICEF, KFW, JICA, ADB, UNDP/NORAD, the French Cooperation, etc.).
Phase 1: (i) for each year, construction and equipment of about 1,500 classrooms, partial renovation and
-51 -



equipment of about 500 classrooms; replacement and equipment of about 250 classrooms; (ii)
implementation of the maintenance system; (iii) preparation of a report on the mechanism for assessing the
classrooms to be renovated; (iv) conducting the study on facilities management, along with initial
experimentation; (v) testing selected alternative solutions for the implementation of low-cost construction;
and (vi) preparation of the school mapping exercise. IDA financing will help with the construction and
furnishing of 1,400 classrooms, the construction of about 900 latrines and the rehabilitation of 1,000
classrooms. Other donors will finance water supply and canteens.
Phase 2: The goal will be to strengthen sustainability by adopting alternative solutions for low-cost
construction, and the transfer of responsibilities to local governments.
Phase 3: This phase will be devoted to strengthening and extending phase 2 activities.
(2.c)  Construction of training centers. The government plans to make 55 CAP operational during the
first phase of the program, of which 17 will use existing facilities and require no additional intervention.
The construction of 34 new CAP for about 100 million CFAF each (20 existing inspectorates are located in
dilapidated or rented buildings and will be rebuilt; 14 completely new CAPs are being created). Five CAP
require minor renovations, and a new training bloc (2 classrooms and a library/documentation). The unit
cost of each bloc is about CFA 20 millions. It is expected that the architecture and infrastructure program
financed by various donors will be harmonized. A summary table for the type of intervention and the siting
of CAP during the first phase is provided in the Manual of Procedures.
IFM. It was agreed to build 10 IFM during the entire program, and to renovate the IFM of Timbuktu
which specializes in the training of Medersa teachers. During the first phase, an IFM will be built in each
region, except for Timbuktu where two will be constructed. Only Bamako, Kidal and Timbuktu regions
still have not begun construction of the new facilities. The IFM of Bamako will contain 12 classrooms
with two annexes; the one for Kidal will be 3 classrooms with annexes (offices, training classrooms and an
administrative house); and the one for Timbuktu will be renovated and its capacity will be strengthened
through the construction of 6 new classrooms. IDA will finance the construction and fumishing of the IFM
of Bamako and Kidal estimated to average CFA 500 millions each.
Phase 1: Construction of 55 CAP and 10 IFM including the renovation of existing buildings. Much of
this work has already been completed. Pilot testing of the maintenance and facilities management systems.
Other construction: (i) the Curriculum Unit (about 100 million CFAF) and (ii) extension of 9 Academies.
IDA will finance the extension of the 9 Academies for about 35 million CFAF apiece.
Phase 2: Consolidation of phase I and generalization of the maintenance and facilities management
systems.
Phase 3: Reinforcement of phase 2.
Access: Secondary Education-General, Technical and Professional
The purpose of this sub-component is to increase intake capacity, offering a high-quality education based
on labor market needs, with heavy involvement of the private sector. In order to allow the private sector to
benefit from the govemment's support, conditions and criteria will be defined by ME. The ministry of
education will specify these conditions during the negotiations. The unit cost of an equipped high school of
12 classrooms is about CFA 430 millions. 6 new secondary vocational schools will be built; and 4 other
- 52 -



will be renovated. In addition, 9 female vocational training centers will be built.
(2.d)  Construction and rehabilitation of secondary schools.
Phase 1: Construct and equip 5 high schools of 12 classrooms; renovate 16 existing structures; and test
and assess the maintenance and facilities management system. 6 new secondary vocational schools will be
built; and 4 others will be renovated. In addition, 9 vocational centers for women will be built. IDA will
finance the construction and equipment of 2 high schools of 12 classrooms with a unit cost estimated at 400
million CFAF for construction and 30 million CFAF for equipment.
Phase 2: Consolidate phase I through the construction/renovation and equipment of new structures, and
generalize the maintenance and facilities management system validated during phase 1.
Phase 3: Extend phase 2 activities.
Access: Higher Education
(2.e)  Access to higher education. The objective of this sub-component is to: (i) improve existing
infrastructure and increase intake capacity through creation of regional vocationally-oriented colleges
offering two-year degree programs; (ii) provide a supportive policy environment for the emergence of
private institutions of higher education; and (iii) provide immediate improvements in the learning
environment at the University of Mali.
Thematic issues: Women in Mali now have far less access to higher education than men. Government
submitted a detailed action plan prior to negotiations that addresses this issue and establishes clear targets
and realistic means for moving toward these targets over the course of the PRODEC period. HIV/AIDS
issues are being addressed in the context of the quality component.
Phase 1: During this phase, the following activities will be undertaken: (i) feasibility studies for the
University central library in Bamako and architectural and technical studies; (ii) feasibility studies for the
creation of two-year degree programs (IUT); (iii) development of a program to increase the enrollment of
female students; (iv) evaluation of potential creation of dormitories under private management; (v)
evaluation of potential uses of the ESITEX at Segou; (vi) feasibility studies for the creation of regional
campuses; (vii) feasibility studies for construction of the National In-service Training Center; (viii)
renovation of faculty libraries; and (ix) renovation of science labs.
Phase 2: Activities during this phase will depend on results of various feasibility studies from Phase 1.
Phase 3: Reinforcement of phase 2.
Project Component 3 - US$ 202.15 million
Strengthening of education system capacity for decentralization and policy monitoring
The principal objective of this component is to modemize and strengthen management of the education
sector. It will strengthen the capacity of ME to implement its policies for the sector, and improve the
overall service delivery capacity of the sector, particularly at the school level. A particular focus will be
placed on policy monitoring and impact evaluation.
Thematic issues: There is a risk that the gender and I-lIV/AIDS policies to which the central government
- 53 -



has demonstrated its commitment will be less of a priority for at least some of the local governments that
will be responsible for implementation in a decentralized environment. This risk could be offset by the
greater depth of local knowledge and understanding that local communities will bring to bear on gender and
fI-V/AIDS issues. It will require, however, that a specific program be developed to monitor the impact of
the decentralization process on the achievement of objectives in these thematic areas. It will also require
that the central government work with each of the decentralized entities to ensure their understanding of and
commitment to these issues.
(3.a)  Transfer of capacity and resources to local governments. At least seven donors will work in
partnership with government to establish concrete operational mechanisms for decentralizing
responsibilities, while providing sufficient guarantees that quality and fiscal responsibility will be
maintained: (a) IDA will support establishment of a decentralization unit that will commission studies and
carry out activities leading to adoption of a plan for decentralization within the ME. The decentralization
plan will help provide answers to the following questions: (i) what resources will the central government
transfer perrnanently to local governments, and under what conditions? (ii) what financial mechanisms will
be put in place to address disparities among local collectivities in terms of access, quality and equity? (iii)
what financial commitments will local governments make in taking responsibility for schools? (iv) how can
the different policies for payment of teachers in public schools, community schools, and Medersa schools
be reconciled at the commune level? (v) how will the implication of the local government lead to improved
management and greater community involvement? and (vi) at what pace, and by what specific means will
the transfer of responsibilities from ME to local government take place? The overall goals of improved
access and quality will be translated into action plans at the regional and sub-regional levels. These action
plans will include performance indicators, timetables, personnel needs, costs, and management issues.
Policy trade-offs will be discussed and decided; (b) UNDP will give specific support targeted to the
northern regions of the country in order to improve delivery of educational services; (c) UNICEF will
finance and help supervise an information campaign in support of decentralization targeted to communities,
private sector entities and local governments; (d) CIDA will complement the UNICEF work with a
coordinated media campaign, including preparation of radio and TV presentations; (e) USAID will help
develop the strategies for converting public schools that are now officially the responsibility of the
communes into community-managed schools by working to heighten awareness and creating parents'
associations, helping them to assume greater responsibility. Similarly, support will be given to help
community schools that indicate this preference to become public communal schools. These strategies will
include reliance on the local and international NGOs that helped set up the managerment policies for
community schools. Therefore, community schools and communal schools will have the same principal for
financing teachers with the advantage that community schools will keep their autonomy; (f) the Netherlands
will work with the World Bank and government to establish mechanisms for decentralized financial
management at the Academies; and (g) World Food Program (WFP) will work with the newly created
decentralized entities to establish school-level feeding programs. This activity will be used as an
opportunity to build functional partnerships among communities, local governments, school personnel and
the central ministry, and to test decentralized service delivery mechanisms.
Phase 1: Establishment of the decentralization unit to: (i) carry out studies, (ii) monitor/analyze past and
ongoing experience of donors and others who have supported greater community involvement in school
management, (iii) carry out pilot tests, (iv) monitor and draw lessons from Ministry of Health
decentralization activities. The unit will put in place a realistic framework for decentralization, including
community-level financial support. This will take the form of an implementation manual.
Phase 2: This phase will be a follow-up to activities in Phase 1. A suggested target will be to transfer
management responsibility to 200 local govemments over the course of this phase. It is expected that the
- 54 -



decentralization unit will be maintained, with the possible addition of implementation expertise. The
implementation manual for decentralization will be revised as appropriate over the course of this phase.
Some form of small grants program at the school level could be used to prepare the way for a new
contractual relationship between local governments and school management.
Phase 3: The proposed goal will be to support other communes and maintain a contractual relationship
between communal authorities or cercles and local school management (director management committee,
APE).
(3.b)  Implementation of the decentralization master plan and preparation of regional education
development plans. The proposed educational reform will greatly increase the duties of the various branch
offices of the ME. It is proposed that these offices take greater responsibility for: (i) personnel
management for approximately 20,000 elementary school teachers (during phase 2, this responsibility will
be shifted to the local govemments) and from 3000 to 5000 additional elementary schools, (ii)
communications campaigns for enlisting the support of communes, villages, cercles, regions, parents'
committees and management committees to build and run these additional schools, (iii) provide in-service
training for all teachers, (iv) ensure that national book policy is carried out in each region, (v) ensure
quality control as regards teaching, (vi) prepare the school mapping exercise, (vii) gather and analyze data
at the regional level, and (viii) plan and manage regional resources in keeping with overall quality and
access objectives. To carry out these activities, it will be necessary to define objectives, clarify roles and
responsibilities, and make available the needed resources (personnel, equipment, buildings and operating
budgets).
PRODEC has already identified objectives at the national level; these will now need to be translated and
adapted in regional terms. PRODEC has also proposed an institutional framework which takes into
consideration the various new roles and responsibilities. This framework was adopted by the government
in December 1999; the accompanying legal texts are. still being prepared and the operating budgets have
not yet been worked out. As they currently stand, these proposals will result in a very significant increase
in administrative personnel (AE personnel will increase from 183 to about 500, CAP personnel will
increase from about 500 to about 2000. Similar increases for IFM personnel will be implemented. The
total increase in personnel, not including teaching personnel, will be about 2000 individuals. This raises
concerns of feasibility and underscores the importance of placing more implementation responsibility at the
level of the schools themselves.
The purpose of this sub-component is to ensure that there is capacity at the central, regional and local
levels to analyze educational policy issues, and to monitor and evaluate the education program on an annual
basis. Each organizational unit involved in the implementation process will develop its own monitoring
indicators and instruments. This sub-component will provide support for the implementation of a
computerized School Information System capable of collecting and analyzing all sectoral data
(demographic, physical, pedagogic, and financial) by region, by cercle, by commune, and by urban sector
for the large towns. The new PMR financial reporting system will provide information on results
indicators such as expenditures, new buildings completed, and number of teachers trained. IDA will be the
key partner for the government for this sub-component, along with the donors previously mentioned.
Phase 1: The following parameters will be a necessary starting point for this exercise: (i) a set of plausible
hypotheses regarding the budgetary framework, (ii) preparation of regional objectives, using the national
objectives already selected as a broad template, (iii) establishment of priorities (for example, in the event of
constraints, will the focus be on access or quality? the construction of CAP, IFM, or schools? etc.). The
final outcome of this exercise will be a national education development plan, comprising 9 regional plans (8
- 55 -



regions plus Bamako). The preparation of the regional plans, along with selection and training of
necessary personnel, will constitute a trigger for moving to the second phase. By the end of this phase, the
School Information System of the ME will be in place. Annual program reviews will have taken place and
the action plans will be prepared, implemented, and evaluated, with corrective measures identified and put
into place. The indicators will show if the second phase triggers have been satisfied.
Phase 2: The focus will be on implementation of the regional education development plans, including a
shift in budgeting to the local governments. Local govemments will take responsibility for teacher
management, with support and supervision from the ME branch offices. Over the course of Phase 2,
support will be given to local govemments for the preparation of their own education development plans.
The information system will be further consolidated based on lessons leamed during Phase 1. It will be
further extended in Phase 2 to the secondary schools. In addition, in the context of the fight against
poverty, linkages will be made with other existing information systems: adult literacy, health, employment,
Ministry of Finance.
Phase 3: Local governments will implement the local education development plans. The computerized
information system will be extended to the school level as many more schools are connected to Intemet.
(3.c)  Financial management. This sub-component supports the move to a "program" approach for
sectoral development, and the accompanying focus on decentralization. It will put in place support for
financial management at all levels of the system. Program budgeting will be introduced for the central
level, the regional level, for local govemments and for individual schools. Each regional directorate
(Academie) will develop its own reorganization proposal as a part of the decentralization of financial
management responsibilities. For this purpose, budget line advances will be made available to each
Academie to help them strengthen their management capacity while assisting territorial collectivities in the
implementation of regional and local development plans. Additional personnel will be hired by the DAF
and existing personnel will receive training in order to ensure the overall monitoring needed for
decentralization to work. Support will be given for economic and budget analysis and for the development
of oversight capacity at the regional and cercle levels. The goal is to attain a gradual decentralization of
responsibility for non-salary operating budgets. The administration of student scholarships will also be
reformed under this sub-component, with introduction of transparent mechanisms and a shift away from
individual scholarships to financing of quality-enhancing inputs.
Phase 1: This phase has two goals: (a) strengthening the capacity for financial management, for personnel
management and for procurement at the central level, and (b) developing capacity at the regional level for
moving to decentralized financial management and personnel management in Phase 2. The existence of
sufficient capacity for these responsibilities at the regional level will be one of the performance indicators
used as a trigger for Phase 2. By the end of this phase, secondary school scholarships will have been
transformed into school grants, with funds available and managed by the schools themselves to strengthen
quality and access. At the university level, scholarship funds will be increasingly transferred in support of
library services, student services, and science facilities.
Phase 2: The existence and consolidation of effective management capacity at the AE level and within
local governnent will be a trigger for Phase 3. Improvements to the working environment at the secondary
level should be apparent. The conditions at the higher education institutions would be in the process of
improvement through the establishment of library services, science labs and student services. Scholarship
reforms at the University level will be extended, leading to criterion-based financing for individual faculties
and institutions.
- 56 -



Phase 3: Evaluation of regional and local plans. Assessment of the entire scholarship policy.
(3.d)  Personnel management. This sub-component provides for broad changes in the way that primary
school teachers are hired, compensated, and managed. It will be entirely financed by Government through
HIPC and other resources (most of the financing is for hiring teachers), with technical advice provided by
IDA in the context of program supervision. At present, there are at least four different models for
managing/financing primary school teachers: (i) civil service contracts, which are open-ended contracts
under which salaries are paid through the Ministry of Finance, for an annual average of about 840,000
CFA ($1120), (ii) "volunteer" contracts, good for two years, managed by the Ministry of Education, for
436,600 CFAF ($580) each year, (iii) "vacataire" contracts, which are renewable annually, managed by
the Ministry of Finance, for 560,000 CFAF ($750) each year, and (iv) community school contracts,
managed and financed by parents' committees at the community level for about 100,000 to 200,000 CFAF
($130-$260) each year (the community schools, officially classified as private schools, are treated as public
schools for the purposes of this exercise, since they will be transformed over time into communal schools).
At present, there are about 15,000 basic education and secondary school teachers in the public and
community school systems, of whom 10,000 are civil servants, 2000 are vacataires, and 3000 are
community school teachers. Existing civil-service teachers will be grandfathered under the system and their
contracts will continue initially to be managed centrally. The "volunteer" approach has already been
phased out. The "vacataire" contract teachers will become communal teachers and will initially receive
570,000 CFAF ($760) each year. Community school teachers will receive a base stipend of about 300,000
CFAF ($400) each year funded by the Ministry of Finance beginning in the 2000-01 school year plus an
additional amount to be paid each month as determined on a school-by-school basis by the school
management committee. All new teachers will be recruited either as communal or community school
teachers.
Phase 1: The key activities are as follows: (i) existing community schools will be transformed into
communal schools, with all community school teachers to receive a monthly stipend from the central
government of about 25,000 CFAF in addition to the amount set by the school management committee.
This will relieve the pressure on parents and provide for greater equity. Over a four-year period, all
teachers should be upgraded to meet minimum qualification requirements equivalent to the IFM diploma at
which point they would be eligible for communal school teacher status; (ii) over a three-year period,
existing community schools which so desire could become communal schools with NGOs support; (iii) new
community schools will be constantly created with a view to being transformed into communal schools with
NGOs support and according to criteria to be defined, also over a three-year period; and (iv) new teacher
recruitment will be carried out at the local and regional levels. Personnel will benefit from a career plan
designed for this purpose and in the context of decentralized management.
Phase 2: Community schools will have chosen their preferred status and most can be expected to complete
the conversion to communal school status. The career plan will be operational and will allow for career
advancement for personnel regardless of the type of school in which they work. Communes will
increasingly ensure monthly payments for teachers with central government support.
Phase 3: Management committees at the school level have reinforced their institutional capacity and can
seek more responsibilities in managing schools and implementing school projects.
- 57 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
<~~~~~otl  _~pon                                   U'dE1ggS $miS?0llAn US $miUion    USES $r$jio
1. Quality of Education                                   100.27         39.32        139.59
2. Access to Education                                     78.39         76.10        154.49
3. Decentralized Management                               194.23          4.66        198.89
4. PPF                                                      1.05          0.00          1.05
Total Baseline Cost                                       373.94        120.08        494.02
Physical Contingencies                                    12.97         13.67         26.64
Price Contingencies                                       12.69          7.85         20.54
Total Project Costs             399.60        141.60        541.20
Total Financing Required              399.60        141.60       541.20
' gis /> .S/.1 S' S S < SBwJL, oai' 'nFoi                         Toal,
1'roqctGst a  Catgr                   US $million    LtS $rnillion    U   mt 
1. Works                                                     87.35         82.07        169.42
2. Goods                                                     41.55         45.17         86.72
3. Consultants Services/Training                             43.28          3.64         46.92
4. Operational Costs                                        226.37          10.72       237.09
5. PPF                                                        1.05           0.00          1.05
Total Project Costs    399.60         141.60        541.20
Total Financing Required     399.60         141.60       541.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 541.2 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 8.31%of total projc
- 58 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supports the Government's agenda and its overall objective is the
reduction of poverty through improved macroeconomic management and income generation and
employment creation. Supporting this objective, the CAS is structured around two major axes: (i)
sustainable human development, and (ii) stable economic growth. While a critical examination of
assumptions behind the policies of stable economic growth is beyond the scope of this review, it should be
emphasized that the sector expenditure program for the education sector has assumed an annual
growth-rate of 4.75 percent over the plan period (2000/01-2009/10). This assumption, which is consistent
with the IMF and World Bank projections, has indeed been more than validated over the past three years
during which the country has witnessed a relatively high economic growth (around 5.2%) and a low
inflationary environment (less than 2%).
Mali's main exports are cotton and gold; both commodities are susceptible to fluctuations in international
prices. Exports are one of the main sources of growth and contribute significantly to the growth rate of the
economy. Revenues from exports of cotton represented 47% of exports of goods and non-factor services in
1999. If both principal commodities are taken into account, the above ratio increased to 73%. With such a
high level of export concentration, narrow economic base and dependency on a single crop, and continued
external financing, the impact of external shocks is amplified. The economy is not diversified and the
continued reliance of commodity exports creates a risky situation for the economy
As a member of the CFAF groups of countries that have a unified monetary policy, Mali cannot effectively
use monetary policy as an instrument to stabilize the economy against external shocks. The focus of the
unified monetary policy among these countries is the stabilization of the inflation rate. This result is that
each individual country has mainly fiscal policy instruments (tax and expenditure policies) at its disposal to
fight the effects of an external policy shocks. While tax revenues have been increasing due to the enhanced
efficiency of the customs administration, the reform of petroleum product taxation, by the creation of a unit
in charge of large corporate taxpayers and the introduction of a taxpayer identification number, revenue
collection, however, remains low at 13% of the GDP. The low revenue base limits the Government's ability
to finance much-needed investments in the social sectors and in basic infrastructure.
In this context, it is important to examine the assumption about the expected growth of economy over the
plan period. For the year 2000, the growth rate of the economy is projected at 4.75% as compared to an
average of 5.2% over the past three years. Since the budget allocation for the education sector is based on
the growth rate of the government budget (whose growth rate is closely correlated with that of the GDP),
there is a strong possibility that the total amount allocated to education will be reduced. The implications
for the government budget (assumed to grow at an annual rate of 4.75%) and for the education sector are
serious and could put the future financial viability of the sector expenditure program in jeopardy, especially
if the growth-rate slows down further. Even with a sound set of policies and programs validated through
simulation, the level of risk (operational, political and financial) continues to be high.
Background Sector Papers and Work A considerable amount of background work was done to
investigate the current state of the education sector in Mali and identify areas where efficiency and
performance could be increased through policy changes. The possibility of sharply increasing access to
primary education through a concerted effort by the government, international institutions and other donor
agencies was explored in some detail. The findings of various studies are summarized.
- 59 -



(i) Construction of an education sector database: Both the Public Expenditure Review (PER) and the
simulation model (described below) required accurate data on education and financial variables related to
the education sector. Officials in Mali's education sector in collaboration with World Bank identified and
collected current and past data on key variables. This database proved to be extremely useful in evaluating
the strengths and weaknesses of Basic education (Grades 1-9) and in comparing the relative performance of
the public and private schools. Community schools have been a major source of growth in enrollments
over the past few years and special effort was made to include them in the database. Data on secondary
education (especially private schools) was sparse and a census was done to collect data on variables
pertaining to enrollments, efficiency, performance and availability of resources in the sub-sector.
(ii) Public Expenditure Review: The review provided the key to comprehend problems in the sector and in
setting priorities to ameliorate the quality of education. It investigated the education sector from two
perspectives: it analyzed the performance of all sub-sectors (fundamental, secondary and higher) by
examining parameters related to efficiency (repetition and dropout rates), performance (graduation rates,
success in national exams), access (gender and regional differences in enrollments) and quality (student
teacher ratio, availability of books, quality and experience of teachers). It also investigated the allocation
of resources between different sub-sectors and between various expenditure categories within each
sub-sector. The findings of the PER were the basis of several policies in the sector expenditure program
designed to improve resource allocation and performance in the education sector. Some of the key findings
are:
* Significant differences in enrollments exist with respect to gender and region (rural-urban and
between regions).
-   There is high rate of internal inefficiency in the sector with large dropout and repetition rates
leading to a wastage amounting to a quarter of total recurrent expenditures in the sector.
* Class sizes are large indicating insufficient number of teachers.
T There is a lack of polyvalent teachers resulting in a significant lower work week for teachers in the
second cycle of fundamental education (15 hours against the required 24 hours). The
specialization of teachers results in high unit costs.
* Students lack books despite government's efforts to reach a ratio of one book for every three
children in primary education sector.
- Scholarships have skewed the distribution of resources in secondary and higher education; they are
disbursed with scant regard to any criteria related to performance or qualification of the candidate.
r There is a lack of adequate pre-service training and sporadic delivery of in-service training with
limited relevance and impact.
(iii) Development of a Policy Simulation Model: Based on the findings of the public expenditure review,
the sector expenditure program set specific policy targets for increasing access and improving the quality of
education. The resource costs associated with these targets were estimated by developing a simulation
model in collaboration with a technical team in Mali. The model was used to estimate the total cost of the
program and make it financially feasible within the government's budgetary envelope and the resources
available from donor institutions. Key policy initiatives were tested in terms of their financial impact and
several policies were modified leading to significant savings in resources and increasing the financial
feasibility of the program. It was also used in cost-benefit analysis to evaluate the benefits associated with
different policies such as provision of books to students and lowering of the class size.
(iv) Cost-Effectiveness of secondary schools: Data gathered from the secondary school census was used to
evaluate the cost effectiveness of secondary public school. Comparison between public and private schools
revealed that the latter are significantly more cost-effective. These results formed the basis of the policy
- 60 -



encouraging the development of the private schools and lowering government's involvement in the
sub-sector.
(v) PRODEC: A government think-tank with officials from the Ministry of Education and Ministry of
Finance was set up to analyze the education sector and work on policy initiative to improve access and
performance. Within this context, the institute did extensive background work and developed policy
initiatives in collaboration with other donor agencies. A technical team from the institute worked closely
with the World Bank to develop the simulation model and use it in policy analysis.
(vi) Other work: The International Institute on Education Policies did substantive work on the financing of
primary education in Mali. Their background studies provided invaluable insights for the sector
expenditure program.
Financial Implications of the Proposed Education Sector Objectives in the Sector Expenditure Plan:
2001-2010
During the past two years, the World Bank has closely worked with officials of the education sector in Mali
to develop an education sector investment plan. Among its many goals, the plan emphasizes increasing
access to primary education and improvements in the quality of services delivered to the entire education
sector. Essentially the government program aims to increase access by increasing the gross enrollment rate
in primary from 56% in 1999/00 to 95% in 2009/10, while improving learning levels through the
enhancement of quality. Over this period, Mali's education system would be decentralized and more
autonomy would be given to regions to make decisions regarding the allocation of educational resources.
Quality enhancements would come through the reform of curricula, increasing the number of teachers and
reducing class size, and expanding pre-service and in-service training.
While gross enrollment rate in primary education in Mali has grown on average by three percent annually
over the past five years, a major portion of that growth has come from increased enrollments in the private
sector, mostly from community schools (more than one hundred thousand children enrolled in the 1999/00
school year). The Medersas are the other component of the private sector, with about 99,947 students in
1999/00. There is little data on secular, fee-paying schools, but they have relatively few students. The
gross enrollment rate in 1998 was 50% (11% private and 39% public) and rose to 56% in the year 1999/00
with the private sector contributing 13%. Table I contains current values of various policy variables and
their target values in the years 2003/04 and 2009/10.
Table 1: Policy Goals of the Sector Expenditure Plan, 2001-2010
Basic Education                              1999/00        2003/04      2009/10
Gross Enrollment Rate in primary (public & private) 56%     70%          95%
Percentage of students in private schools (primary)   25%   26%          26%
Percentage of girls in total enrollments     41%            44%          50%
Dropout rate in primary                      8%             5%           3%
Repetition rate in primary                   22%            13%          9%
Student-teacher ratio in primary             56             53           50
% of double shift teachers in primary        29%            29%          29%
% of multi-grade teachers in primary         16%            16%           16%
% of non-teaching teachers in primary        8%             5%           2%
% of contractual teachers as % of all new hires  16%        100%          100%
Weekly hours of teaching in 2nd cycle        15             17           20
- 61 -



Number of non-teaching directors                   600              600            600
Share of education in total government budget      25.7%            27%            27%;',
Share of Basic education in total education budget    55.9%         59%            64%
Share of secondary education in total education    28.2%            26.5%          24%
budget
Share of higher education in total education budget   15.9%         14.5%          12%
Basic Education (Primary): The projected growth in enrollments, as shown in Tables 2 and 3 has
important budgetary consequences for the education sector, especially at the basic education level. Not
surprisingly, the resource requirements in terms of the number of teachers, classrooms, teacher training and
reading materials are large and imply a significant diversion of resources to the education sector from other
sectors. For example, 4246 additional teachers and 5360 classrooms would be required at primary level in
the first phase Table 2). Over the entire plan period the respective needs are 1541 0 teachers and 16168
classrooms. Similarly, there would be a need of 1240 teachers and 540 classrooms during the first phase
for the second cycle of basic education (Table 3). These needs would be met in part by the projected
increase in the share of education in government budget from 25.7% in 1999/00 to 27% in 2003/04 (Table
1). In addition, the education Ministry has proposed to increase the budget of Basic education from 56% in
1999/00 to 64% in 2009/10. These changes go a long way to meet the resource requirements and makes
the first phase (1999/00-2003/04) of the plan financially viable (Table 4), but the proposed sector
investment plan still leaves a large recurrent and investment financing deficit over the entire plan period. It
also leaves an annual recurrent deficit of CFAF 7.4 billion in the year 2009/10 for which additional
financing would need to be found.
Table 2: Expenditure Estimates for Primary Education (millions of CFAF)
1999/00  2000/01  2001/02   2002/03   2003/04   2000/01 2004/05 2007/08 1999/0
2003/04 2006/07 2009-10 02009/
10
Public Enrollments     766993   829288   896574   969244    1047722
Private Enrollments    134912   151123   169150   189187   211451
Medersa Enrollments    89030    95442    102324   109711    117642
GER (with Medersas     56%      59%      62%      65%       70%
Teachers Required               758      1034     1160      1294      4246   4780   6384    15410
Classrooms Required             1758     1148     1160      1294     5360   4688   6120    16168
Salary Pernanent       7933     8183     8426     8657      8873     54350  49565  59132   163048
Salary Contractual     1119     1572    2240      3047      4011      10870  19762  36787   67419
Materials              3229     3389     3562     3747      3947      14645  13205  15675  43525
Investment Cost        7748     17057    10810    12176    13713    53756  52407  74764   180927
Recurrent Expenditures    21280    22898    24643    26595    28782    102918  102289  133855  339062
There are other concerns that would further raise the cost of financing the plan. As one moves closer to
100% GER, the marginal cost of education for an extra child becomes higher. The expansion is predicated
on the training and recruitment of large number of contractual teachers at a low salary raising concerns
about their quality and turnover rates. Finally, if quality issues become paramount during the program
because of lack of reading materials and/or poor quality of teachers, it may lead to a sharp increase in the
inefficiency of the sector resulting in a higher level of wastage. During the negotiations, it was agreed to
implement several policies that would increase savings through a reduction in wastage and misallocation of
resources. It is expected that these issues would be examined in detail during the first phase and viable
-62 -



solutions would be found to reduce or eliminate the projected deficit over the second and third phases of the
program.
Table 3: Expenditure Estimates for Second C cle of Basic Education (millions of CFAF)
1999/00  2000/01   2001/02  2002103  2003/04  2000/01  2004/05  2007/08  1999/00
2003/04  2006/07  2009-10  2009/10
Public Enrollments    167721   170111    173408   180438   188938                                 _
Private Enrollments   12181    13331      14491    15592    17307
Medersa Enrollments   10917    11135      11358    11585    11817
Teachers Required              231        257      351       400       1240     1386      1693     4319
Classrooms Required            0          59       221       260      540       963       1297     2800
Salary Permanent      3812     3881       3999     4127      4259      16266    13558    14670    35678
Salary Contractual    147      292        468      721       1033     2514      5516      10580    18610
Materials             1615      1670      1728      1789     1852      7039     5959     6629      19627
Investment Cost                0          583      2259      2736     5579      10765    15843    32186
Recurrent Expenditures  7691   7961       8312     8754      9261     34288    31386    38231    103906
It is possible now to estimate total expenditures in basic education and the deficit over the planning horizon.
In this context, it is important to note that the sector investment plan has to be financially feasible not only
during the planning horizon but also every year after it. In this plan, the estimated annual recurrent deficit
at the end of the planning horizon in 2009/10 is CFAF 7.3 million. These estimates are based on total
government budget and the amount budgeted in the financing plan sent by PRODEC. The same plan
increases the share of basic education in total education budget to 64%. It is evident that with the set of
targets outlined in Table 1, it is financially feasible to reach the objective of 95% gross enrollment rate by
2009/10. Donors have pledged sufficient amount of money during negotiations to finance the construction
and renovation of schools, teacher- training centers and other activities.
Table 4: Estimates of Deficit for Basic Education (millions of CFAF)
1999/00   2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2000/01  2004/05  2007/08   2000/01
2003/04  2006/07  2009-10  2009/10
Recurrent Budget     28972      31098    33381    35832    38462    138773   130235   155888   424896
Capital Budget       n/a        3306      3463     3627      3800     14195    12516    14386    41097
Recurrent Expenses    28971     30860    32955    35349    38043    137206   133675   172087   442968
Capital Expenses     n/a        17057    11393    14435    16449    59334    63172    90607    213113
Recurrent Deficit    0          -239      -426     -482     -419      -1567    3440      16199    18072
-63 -



Secondary Education: It is estimated that secondawy enrollments would be impacted sharply as a
consequence of the rise in primary enrollments. While the rapid rise in these enrollments has budgetary
implications for secondary education, PRODEC has outlined policies that propose to limit their impact by
reducing the percentage of students supported by the government. More specifically, the government would
support only 65% of total students who pass the DEF; in addition it would increase the percentage of
students sent to private schools from current 29% to 47% in 2009/10. The effect of these policies would be
favorable to the budget as it lessens resource requirements and leads to increased participation of the
private sector in the provision of educational services. In fact, as Table 5 demonstrates, enrollments in
secondary public general, technical and professional schools increase by 50% over the ten-year period.
Consequently, secondary public schools (general, technical and professional) require only 1473 additional
teachers and 884 classrooms over the next ten years. During the first phase the requirements of teachers
and classrooms are 178 and 107 respectively. In addition, agreement has been reached with the Ministry to
eliminate scholarships awarded to secondary school students by the year 2003/04, and use this money to
buy books and materials to improve the quality of education in secondary schools. The share of recurrent
secondary education budget is targeted at 24% (from the current 28%) in total recurrent education budget
at the end of the planning period. The simulations indicate that with the reduction in the number of
students admitted to secondary, the amount of resources available would be adequate to meet future needs.
In fact, over the plan period there would be savings of CFAF 10358 million that will be used for quality
improvements in secondary or diverted to basic education where it could be used to balance the overall
recurrent deficit. The World Bank and other donor agencies have agreed to finance the construction of
three high schools that would meet the requirements over the first phase.
Table s: Evolution of Enrollments and Expen itures (millions) in Secondary Education
1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04  2000101  t004/05  2007/08   2000/01
2003/04  2006/07  2009-10  2009/10
Secondary General
Public Enrollments    39636    41946    42663    42282    41726
New Teachers        0        97       51       18       12        178      108      158      443
New Classrooms      0        58       31       11       7         107      65       95       266
Salary Permanent    2939     2986     3027     3062     3094      12170    9424     9479     31072
Salary Contractual  442      691      890       1050     1214     3844     5043     7971     16858
Scholarships        1391     1200     800      700      0         0        0        0        4091
Sec. Tech.+Prof.
Public Enrollments    11262    11675    12614    14192    16255
New Teachers        0        20       45       75       98        238      366      425      1029
New Classrooms      0         12      27       45       59        143      220      255      618
Salary Permanent    954      976      997      1015     1029     4018      3095     2867     9980
Salary Contractual  15       71       175      346      580       1172     3703     7851     12727
Scholarships        890      900      600      500      0         0        0        0        2890
Secondary Total
Recurrent Budget    14617    15231    15871    16538    17234    64875    54943    60165    179983
Recurrent Expenses    14617    15048    14960    15399    14905    60313    49877    59434    169625
Recurrent Deficit   0        -183    -911      -1139    -2328    -4562    -5066    -730      -10358
Higher Education: During the past two years enrollments in higher education have increased by 54%
leading to sharp increase in resource requirements. To a certain extent, these requirements have not been
met and, as a consequence, it is estimated that class sizes have increased resulting in overcrowded
classrooms (student/teacher ratio has increased from 20 to 30 between 1998 and 2000). Projections for
enrollments in the University have been made under the assumption of 5% annual growth (suggested by
PRODEC). In the face of rapid increase in student population during the last two years, simulations have
been repeated with an annual growth rate of 10%. The amount allocated to scholarship has been kept
constant at CFAF 3800 million from the year 2003 onwards and the student-teacher ratio has been
- 64 -



assumed to be constant at 25 over the planning horizon. In this scenario (Table 6), with total enrollments
rising from 21444 in 1999/00 to 34930 in the year 2009/10, there would be a need for additional 682
teachers. Recurrent expenditures during the same period would rise from CFAF 8235 million to CFAF
12584 million while the estimated recurrent budget would only increase to CFAF 10322 million leading to
a recurrent deficit of CFAF 2251 million at the end of the planning horizon. Under the assumption of 10%
growth in enrollments (not shown in Table 6), 1510 additional teachers would be needed while the annual
recurrent deficit after the year 2009/10 will rise to CFAF 5956 million.
Table 6: Evolution of Enrollments and Expenditures (millions) in Higher Education
1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002103  2003/04  2000/01  2004/05  2007/08   2000/01
2003/04  2006/07  2009-10  2009/10
Public Enrollments   21444    22516    23642    24824    26065
Teachers Needed              50        53       57        61       220       208       254      682
Salaries            1687     1503      1701      1923     2174     7301      8367      12043    27711
Reading Materials    1308     1126     1182      l241     1303     4852      4314      4994     14160
Additional Materials  306    316       325      335       345       1320     1098      1200     3618
Scholarships        3358     3358      3700     3800      3800      14658    11400    11400    37458
Recurrent Expenses   8235    7925      8579     9021      9395     34921    30824    35805    101550
Recurrent Budget    8235     8289      8615      8941     9265      35111    29041    30581    94733
Recurrent Deficit   0        -363      -36      79        130       -190     1784      5224     6818
Increases in primary enrollments would start impacting higher education from the year 2012 onwards. It is
in this year that the first wave of students would be eligible for admission to the University and, for the next
ten years, their numbers would increase each year. Unless a policy to restrict admissions to the University
is introduced or private universities can accommodate the demand for education services, the Ministry of
Education would have to allocate larger amount of resources to higher education. These additional
resources can come from three sources: (i) through an increase in the share of education in total
government's budget, (ii) through an increase in the share of higher education budget in total education
budget, (iii) through cost recovery measure such as tuition fees, examination fees etc. In view of the overall
resource constraint faced by Mali and the increase in resource requirement for Basic education due to
higher enrollments, it is imperative to have a policy framework for increased cost recovery in latter phases
of the APL.
Resource Requirements for the Entire Education Sector: In order to achieve the gross enrollment target
of 95% in the year 2009/10 (and other targets given in Table 1), the education sector would require 21202
additional teachers and 19851 classrooms (Table 7) for all levels of education over the next ten years. In
the early years of the program, total recurrent expenditures in the education sector would be lower than the
available budget leading to small annual surplus. At the end of the first phase there would be a cumulative
surplus of CFAF 13319 million. These annual surpluses get progressively lower until they turn into deficit
during the third phase. The cumulative deficit in the third phase is projected to be around CFAF 14693
million. Over the entire program, projections indicate a small cumulative surplus of CFAF 4468 million.
But, more significantly, the recurrent deficit in the final year of the plan is CFAF 8000 million. This is the
level of recurrent deficit that would continue to occur in the following years unless specific policies are
chosen and implemented to reduce it.
Table 7: Resource Requirem nts and Expenditures (millions of CFAF) for the Education Sector
2000/01   2001/02   2002/03   2003104   2000/01   2004/05   2007/08   2000/01
2003/04   2006/07   2009-10   2009110
Teachers                 1106      1387       1604      1805      5901      6640      8660      21202
Classrooms               1842      1207       1470     1631       6149      5935      7767      19851
Recurrent Expenses       53833     56494     59769      62343     232441    214377    267326    714143
- 65 -



Recurrent Govt. Budget   54619    57868    61312    64961    238759   214219   246633   699611
HIPC Contribution      1000 o   2000     2000     2000     7000    16000     6000      19000
Total Recurrent Budget    55619    59868    63312    66961    245759   220219   252633   718611
Recurrent Deficit     -1785    -3374    -3542    -4617    -13319   -5842    14693   -4468
The numbers related to allocation to education coming from HIPC initiative are provisional and could
change over time. It is expected that the total amount available from HIPC would be FCFA 5.6 billion in
the year 2000 and FCFA 779 billion over the next twenty years. It is not yet certain how much of this
would be attributed to the education sector each year (depends on the government's priorities). In the
simulations, the share of the HIPC money allocated to education has been assumed to be about 6%. For
the year 2000, however, FCFA I billion have been allocated to education.
As noted above, when large cohorts of primary school students start joining secondary schools in the year
2009/10, and higher education in the year 2012/13, the recurrent deficit for the entire education sector
would be much higher. This is because the unit cost of providing educational services is much higher at
secondary and higher levels than at the primary level. For example, in 1999/00, the unit cost (Table 8) of
educating a child in the first and second cycles of Basic education in Mali is estimated at CFAF 26963 and
CFAF 45857 respectively. At the secondary level, the unit cost of education for general and technical and
professional is estimated at CFAF 254711 and 401437 respectively, while the estimate for higher education
is CFAF 384024.
Thus, the unit cost for the second cycle of Basic education is 1.7 times than in the first cycle. For
secondary general and technical and professional, the multiples are 9.4 and 14.9 respectively. Higher
education has a multiple of 14.2. These numbers suggest that as large cohorts of children move through
the education system, total resource and expenditure requirement in the education sector will quickly rise
over time. In case of secondary and higher education, the rise in expenditures would occur after the plan
period (2000/01 -2009/10). Thus the estimates of expenditures over the plan period provide only a partial
picture of the total cost associated with the policies of the ten-year plan. Unless costs in years after the
plan period are taken into account, the education sector would run into severe financing problems. The
ensuing deficits may be large enough to affect the ability of the Ministry of Education to provide adequate
educational services to all enrolled children.
Table 8: Unit Cost at Different Levels of Education in Mali, 1998
Primary        Second Cycle   Secondary        Secondary       Higher
General        Tech .+Prof
Unit Cost      26963           45857           254711          401437          384024
Multiple        1              1.7             9.4             14.9            14.2
Summary of benefits and costs:
In this context, the policy agreements reached during negotiations will result in sharp reduction in unit cost
at each level of education. Some of the policies that would have a direct impact on unit cost are:
(i) All new recruits (in teaching) would be hired on fixed contracts at a lower base salary.
(ii) Teachers in administration (about 1041) would be reassigned to teaching.
(iii) All directors (except those in large schools) will be required to teach.
(iv) Reduction in wastage (amounting to 25% of recurrent expenditures) through an improvement in
dropout and repetition rates.
(v) The number of weekly hours spent on teaching would be increased from 15 to 20 in the second
cycle through recruitment/training of polyvalent teachers.
(vi) Scholarships in secondary education would be eliminated by the end of the first phase.
-66 -



(vii) Total amount spent on scholarship in higher education would be reduced.
(viii) Private provision of education in secondary would be encouraged and the government would
reduce its share of students supported from 100% to 65%.
In conclusion, with significant resources available for education under the HIPC initiative, the sector
expenditure program is financially feasible over its entire length. With regards to recurrent expenditures,
the education policy reforms would result in net savings over the first two phases. Only in the third phase
would recurrent expenditures exceed the budgetary envelope. One possibility is to explore ways to transfer
some of these savings to the third phase. Regarding investment, there are enough resources available to
finance the construction of schools, renovation of classrooms and teacher-training institutes. The
investment goals of the second and the third phase would largely be guided by results obtained in the first
phase.
Needless to say, there are significant risks associated with the sector expenditure progran many of which
are outlined in the next section. A potential problem is the presence of large annual recurrent deficits at the
end of the planning horizon, which the government may find difficult to finance. These deficits would
occur despite the significant policy reforms undertaken by the government. It would be crucial for the
government to find additional sources of revenue including cost recovery measures in order to bridge the
resource gap.
Additional Studies: In order to monitor the progress of the sector expenditure program and to better
implement its policies, the following studies need to be undertaken during implementation and before the
next phase:
First year (2000/01)
(i) Action plan to improve teacher utilization by using more polyvalent teachers at middle school,
reducing the number of teachers in non-teaching jobs and asking more school directors to teach
(ii) Tracking study of non-wage expenditure in primary schools
(iii) Action plan for reduction of dropout and repetition rates
(iv) Action plan for introducing low-cost construction
Annual
(i) Financial report monitoring performance indicators and issues outlined in Table I
(ii) Public expenditure review of education sector
(iii) Update of simulation model before annual review meeting
(iv) Update of regional plan to improve teacher utilization
(v) Review of the plan for reduction of dropout and repetition rates
Mid-Term Review
(i) Study on introducing cost recovery at post primary
(ii) Study on linkages to labor markets
(iii) Study on private education in secondary and higher education and role of public sector
(iv) Review of the development of community schools, their quality and performance
Before Second Phase
- 67 -



(i) Action plan to implement cost recovery at secondary and higher levels
(ii) Action plan for accreditation system for private education
Main Assumptions:
Risks Associated with Policy Objectives in the Sector Expenditure Program In the following, the
sensitivity of the expenditure estimates to different variables in the model is examined in order to evaluate
the overall risk faced by the program. The values of some variables in the model are determined through
negotiations (wage rate of contractual teachers, annual increase in salary), the value of others is determined
independently by the economy (rate of inflation). There are yet other variables whose value changes slowly
over time due to the presence of structural rigidities in the education system (weekly hours of work). While
the specific cost associated with each policy option has not been finalized, the model has delivered enough
information to enable the team to rank six objectives with the largest impact on costs. Their importance
needs to be realized because any small deviation from their target value would significantly add to the cost
of the entire program. In other words, they are the most sensitive policy variables with significant financial
and/or political risks.
Access: Increasing access to Basic education by increasing gross enrollment rate from its current 56% to
95% in 2009/10 is the pivotal policy variable. While the model calculates the annual and total recurrent
cost over the planning horizon, these estimates should be considered provisional. Most of the increase in
enrollments will come from the regions that have a relatively low enrollment rate (compared to Bamako).
In these regions, low demand for education may be enough of an issue to increase the marginal cost of
providing education. Unless regional targets are set for access to education it would be difficult to
determine the real cost of providing access to education. A one- percent deviation from the target of 95%
changes recurrent expenditure by CFAF 331 million CFAF in the year 2009/10 and the total recurrent
expenditures over the plan period by CFAF 1292 million. Capital expenditures will change by CFAF 609
million and CFAF 3118 million respectively over the same period.
Private Enrollments: A related objective of improving access is to encourage the development of private
education. While community schools have a gross enrollment of more than hundred thousand students and
medersas have another 89030 students (1999/00), the objective of the ten-year plan is to increase the share
of private education to 26% from 14% (1999/00). The education specialists in Mali indicated that they do
not foresee significant growth in enrollments in Medersa implying that the community schools would be
responsible for the bulk of the growth. If the share of private school enrollments rises to only 25% in the
year 2009/10 instead of the 26%, it would increase the recurrent and capital deficit by CFAF 426 million
and CFAF 840 million respectively in that year. Over the entire plan the respective deficits would be
CFAF 1600 million and CFAF 4022 million.
Number of weekly hours: Data provided by PRODEC indicates that the total number of hours worked by
teachers in the second cycle of the Basic education amounted to an average of 15 hours (by law, they
should work 24 hours). One of the objectives of the sector expenditure program is to implement a strategy
that would increase the actual number of hours worked per week to 20. If the number of hours worked
remains unchanged at 15, it would lead to an increase in recurrent deficit by CFAF 2.2 billion in the year
2009/10 and by CFAF 8.5 billion over the entire plan. The probability of changing the weekly hours
worked (during the plan period) is rather low because of the lack of polyvalent teachers in the second cycle
of Basic education.
Salary Growth Rate: Given the relative importance of teachers' salary in total budget, this is perhaps the
- 68 -



variable with the greatest impact on the expenditure estimates. Based on historical rates, a value of 5% has
been used. If this rate is exceeded by one percent over the plan period, recurrent expenditures (and,
consequently the deficit) in year 2009/10 would increase by CFAF 5.8 billion, and by CFAF 24 billion
over the plan period. Conversely, if the rate is lower by one percent, the recurrent deficit in the year
2009/10 would decrease by CFAF 5.3 billion while total recurrent deficit over the plan period would
decrease by CFAF 22 billion. Since the majority of teachers belong to the civil service, their salary
increases in step with the increase in salary of the entire civil service. Unless the government negotiates
with the representative of the civil employees to increase their salary at a lower rate, or it negotiates
separately with the teachers union for lower annual salary increase, it is difficult to visualize that the
annual rate would be lower than five percent.
Annual Decrease in Repetition Rate: Based on conversations with the counterpart team in Mali, it was
assumed that with different policy interventions (provision of books to all children, diversion of scholarship
funds to ameliorate the quality of education in secondary) the repetition rate would decline by nine percent
each year in Basic education and by five and four percent respectively in secondary general and secondary
technical and professional education. If the desired improvement in repetition rate does not take place and
it remains unchanged at the end of the planning period, the total recurrent deficit in the year 2009/10 would
be augmented by CFAF 746 million. It would also increase total recurrent expenditure over the plan period
by CFAF 2.4 billion and capital expenditures by CFAF 10.3 billion. This is not surprising because failure
to improve repetition rates leave more children in schools requiring additional teachers and classrooms.
TIhe risk of non-improvement or worsening of repetition rates is high because of the sharp increase in
enrollments over a short period and the recruitment of contractual teachers at a lower salary whose
pedagogic skills may not be equivalent to those of the existing teachers.
Rate of Growth of Government Budget: This is another crucial variable in the model whose value
directly determines the level of deficit in each year of the plan period. Its value is closely correlated with
the rate of growth of the GDP (gross national product). Over the past three years, the economy of Mali has
been performing well with the GDP growing at about six percent. Its main exports are cotton and minerals
whose prices are deternined in the world markets. Cotton production has suffered a decline this leading to
lower projections for exports and the growth of the economy. In fact, the rate of growth of GDP is
projected to be about four percent this year. A decline of one percent in the rate of growth of the
government budget would increase the recurrent deficit of the sector expenditure plan by CFAF 7.8 billion
in the year 2009/10 and by CFAF 38 billion over the entire plan period.
In short, given the scope of the sector investment program, there is little margin of error. A sound and clear
strategy is needed to achieve the objectives envisioned by the Ministry of Education. It is worth repeating
that the deficit in recurrent expenditures at the end of the planning horizon amounts to CFAF 8 billion.
This deficit occurs despite the increase in the budget allocated to education from 26% in 1999/00 to 27%
in 2003/04 . The implication is that either some of the objectives in the sector investment plan need to be
pared down, or significant savings need to be found through some other policy measures to finance the
program.
Other Risks in the Program: While the above-described risks were based on variations in the values of
some crucial variables, there are other risks that are a consequence of the sector expenditure program.
These risks could emanate from the inability of the Ministry of Education to find enough resources because
of capacity problems or because the quality of resources is inadequate. In the following sections, three
factors have been identified which could impact the performance of the education sector as well as
influence other sectors of the economy.
-69 -



Recruitment of Teachers and Administrators: The projections of the model indicate a need for additional
21884 teachers over the next ten years. The decentralization of education would lead to the hiring of 3000
more administrators over the plan period. This suggests that the number of personnel in the education
sector would increase by 24884, in essence, more than tripling the size of the workforce in the education
sector. At this moment, there is no study that has explored the labor market for the availability of the
desired skill-mix at a competitive wage-rate.
High inefficiency: In 1999/00, the percentage of resources lost due to high dropout and repetition rate at
different levels of education were as follows: 30% in the first cycle and 39% in the second cycle of Basic
education, 30% in secondary education and 32% in higher education. In total, it is estimated that 31% of
total expenditures in the education sector were wasted in 1999/00 because of the inefficiency in the system.
With recurrent expenditures of CFAF 38 billion in 1999/00, this amounted to a loss of CFAF 12 billion.
The new data on dropouts and repetition for 1999/00 suggests that the level of loss would be higher in that
year. The danger of such a large increase in enrollments with the recruitment of teachers with mixed
pedagogic skills is that the losses due to inefficiency in the system could become unacceptable. Even if the
percentage of students who repeat or dropout remains the same, total loss would be higher because of the
increase in the student population.
Linkages to the Labor Market: Within a few years, large cohorts of students would be entering secondary
schools, opting for higher education and becoming ready to join the labor force. It is crucial that in the
interim, a labor market survey/study be conducted to examine the capacity of the economy to absorb such
large number of educated persons, the skill mix required by the economy and whether the current
curriculum in secondary and higher education provides the students with those skills. Unless these issues
are addressed, it is possible to repeat the experience of many Middle-Eastern countries that have a large
educated student population, which does not possess the skills demanded by the private sector. In case of
Mali, the situation would be even more difficult because of its inability of provide the social safety net
common to many of the Middle-Eastern countries.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Cost Benefit Analysis. A prominent thrust of the sector expenditure program is the amelioration of the
quality of education in Basic and secondary education through the reduction of the dropout and repetition
rates. Any effort to reduce inefficiency in the system is difficult and takes time. In the case of Mali, it is
compounded by the emphasis on significantly increasing access to education. Two of the policies that are
intended to impact the quality of education are (i) the provision of books to students in Basic education and,
(ii) a reduction of the size of the class in basic and secondary education. Both of these policies have clear
and specific cost implications that have been estimated by the policy simulation model and, the benefits are
assumed to accrue in the form of lower dropout and repetition rates. Assuming that dropouts and
repetitions result in a complete loss to the education system equivalent to the average unit cost, it is easy to
estimate the total savings to the system as these policies lead to lower inefficiency in the education sector.
This allows for the computation of the total benefits for each extra unit of investment in quality enhancing
inputs. In the following sections, the assumptions used in the estimation of the benefits associated with
each policy and the actual benefits are given below:
Provision of books to students: This policy is predicated on providing free books to students in the first and
second cycle of basic education and in secondary schools. While the specific number of books to be given
to each student and their cost has not yet been determined, cost-benefit simulations have been done under
the assumption of 1 book for each student at the cost of CFAF 2500 and 7000 for students in first and
- 70-



second cycle respectively. It is assumed that this would lead to an annual reduction of 10% and 9%
respectively in the dropout and repetition rate in both cycles of basic education. Multiplying the number of
dropouts and repeaters by the unit cost of education at each level of education provides the total loss to the
education system in each year. Dividing the annual reduction in loss by the cost of the policy provides an
estimate of the total benefit per unit cost of provision of books. The estimates of benefits per unit cost for
the policy of provision of books are given in Table 9.
Table 9: Estimates of Benefits per Unit Cost for the Policy of Public Provision of Books
2000    2001   2002   2003  2004  2005 2006  2007  2008  2001-10
First Cycle           1.6      2.2    2.6    3.0    3.4    3.8   4.1   4.3   4.5   3.5
Second Cycle          2.0      2.2    2.5    2.8    3.0   3.2    .4   3.5   3.7   3.1
Total                 1.7      2.2    2.6    2.9    3.3    3.5   3.8   4.0   4.2   3.4
The benefits increase over the plan period from 1.6 to 4.5 for the first cycle and from 2.0 to 3.7 for the
second cycle. The benefits increase over time because the reduction in dropout and repetition rates occurs
at a higher rate than the growth in total expenditures on books. The ratio would be lower if the annual
improvements in dropout and repetition rates occur at a lower rate.
Lowering the class size: The assumption behind lowering class-size is that it would lead to better learning
outcomes and a decrease in dropout and repetition rates. It also implies an increase in the total number of
teachers and an increase in total salary bill of the education sector. Total benefits have been computed, as
before, by multiplying the unit cost by the reduction in number of dropouts and repeaters.
Table 10: Estimates of Benefits per Unit Cost for the Polic of Lowerin the Class-Size
2000    2001   2002   2003   2004  2005  2006  2007 2008  2001-10
First Cycle           6.0      5.5    5.1    4.7    4.4    4.1   3.8   3.6   3.3   3.9
Second Cycle          6.2      5.2    4.5    4.0    3.6    3.3   3.0   2.8   2.6   3.1
Total                 6.1      5.4    4.8    4.4    4.1    3.7   3.5   3.2   3.0   3.6
The cost-benefit ratio decreases from 6 to 3.3 for the first and from 6.2 to 2.6 for the second cycle of basic
education. The reduction occurs because the growth rate in the number of teachers is larger than the
increase in benefits due to the reduction in the dropout and repetition rates. Over the plan period the ratio
decreases from 6.1 to 3.6.
- 71 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Years Ending
Year 1     Year 2     Year 3     Year 4     Year 5     Year 6  IYear 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           91.7       85.5        71.2       40.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs             63.4       67.8       71.5       49.6        0.0         0.0       0.0
Total ProjectCosts          155.1       153.3      142.7       90.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing             155.1       153.3      142.7       90.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRDtIDA                    3.1       15.7       13.0        13.2       0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 74.3       75.7       81.4       51.4        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              61.2       50.9       30.8        19.5       0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     16.5       11.0       17.5        6.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing     155.1      153.3      142.7       90.1        0.0       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
- 72 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in December 1998. The findings of
this review remain valid. The Malian procurement code was revised in 1995 in consultation with the Bank
and is considered as a good example in the region. In general, Mali's procurement laws and regulations do
not conflict with IDA guidelines. In addition, no special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified
in Credit documents since Mali's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any
contrary provisions in local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods will be purchased in accordance
with World Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January
1995, lastly revised in January 1999. World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be used for all
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised
locally would be carried out in accordance with Mali's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to
IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation
and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is
granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from the competition; (v)
the lowest qualifying bid is accepted; and (vi) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding
document is submitted to IDA and deemed acceptable by it. The standard bidding document for NCB will
be based on the World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, with appropriate modifications for
advertisement of the Invitation For Bids (which may be limited to the major national daily newspapers), the
currency of the bid price and payment, applicable laws, etc. IDA-financed Consultant Services will be
procured in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers, published in January 1997, and last revised in January 1999. Table A below
summarizes the procurement arrangement by category of expenditure.
Procurement Plan. A draft general procurement plan is under preparation covering the entire first phase of
the project, and a specific procurement plan for the first two years. The general procurement plan shows
contract packages, estimated cost and procurement method, and processing times per package until project
completion (including bidding documents for items to be procured under ICB in the first year of the
project). By September 1 of each year, the ME will prepare and submit to IDA, for review and comments,
a specific procurement plan for the particular year as part of its annual work program. The General
Procurement Plan and First Two Years Detailed Procurement Plan will both be included in the project file.
Procurement Notices. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the UN Development
Business and in a National paper of wide circulation as provided for in the guidelines. The GPN will be
updated annually. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for goods and works contracts
procured by ICB and NCB, and for " Expression of Interest" for consultant services contracts exceeding
US$100,000 equivalent for firns and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals. A short list will be prepared
for this purpose. SPNs will be published in a local newspaper and distributed to the embassies of member
countries represented locally.
Procurement implementation. Procurement to be undertaken during the first phase will be the
responsibility of the following institutions:
(i)    For all components, the DAF will be responsible for financial implementation and procurement
The DAF, which will be strengthened by addition of a second procurement specialist as per the
- 73 -



recommendations made by IDA during an institutional assessment (see action plan for strengthening
procurement capacity), will be responsible for managing all procurement activities;
(ii)    Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of basic education classrooms will be delegated to
AGETIPE and to NGOs. Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of secondary and higher education
facilities, as well as other construction related to basic education will be delegated to AGETIPE. The ME
will recruit an approved technical control entity to provide technical supervision of the quality of the studies
and work for the basic education training centers (CAP and IFM) and for the secondary schools.
(iii) The CPS will take part in: (a) preparing standard bidding documents for IDA non-objection, (b)
bid evaluation for works, and (c) monitoring the performance of Contract Management Agencies (CMA).
The CPS will be responsible for monitoring and technical follow-up of all contracts related to civil works.
It will assess problems which may arise and propose solutions.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil works. The implementation of the PRODEC will be organized in three phases. Approval of the
second (2005-07) and third (2008-10) phases, focusing on consolidation and sustainability, will be subject
to performance triggers. During the first phase of the program (2000-2004), construction activities will
include the following: (i) 8000 basic education classrooms to build/replace and furnish including principal'
s office, storage room and latrines, 1000 classrooms to renovate and partially furnish, including principal's
office, storage room and latrines; (ii) 4 pre-service teacher training institutes to build and furnish (including
2 under IDA financing); (iii) 5 high schools to build and furnish (including 2 under IDA financing); (iv)
extension of 9 regional education offices (DRE); and (v) renovation of faculty-based libraries and
laboratory facilities.
Civil works contracts. The construction program financed by IDA is comprised for the most part of small
contracts costing less than US$500,000 each. Contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 per contract (totaling less than US$2.4 million), will be awarded on the basis of Intemational
Competitive Bidding (ICB). In such a case, the World Bank's standard document for works contracts to be
procured under ICB will be used (dated January 1995 and including corrigenda Nos. 1 through 3, with the
latest update from May 2000). Construction and rehabilitation estimated to cost less than US$200,000, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$24.9 million, will be awarded on the basis of NCB in accordance
with national procedures described in the Manual of Procedures and acceptable to IDA. Civil works
contracts will be managed by a Contract Management Agency (CMA)- namely AGETIPE. AGETIPE will
use standard bidding documents developed in the agency Manual of Procedures dated June 19, 2000 and
found acceptable by IDA. Any change to the Manual of Procedures will be submitted to IDA for prior
review.
Contracts for small works. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$30,000 each, up to
an aggregate amount of US$860,000 during the first phase, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained in writing from at least three qualified domestic
contractors. The request for bids will include a detailed description of the works, including plans and
technical specifications as appropriate, required completion time, and a standard contract acceptable to
IDA. The contract will be awarded to the supplier whose bid is judged to be in substantial conformity with
the bid request and who makes the least cost bid, on the condition of being able to show that s/he has the
experience and resources necessary to carry out the works. Contracts for works to be carried out by NGOs
will give preference to this method.
- 74 -



Goods: Total purchase of goods to be financed under the IDA credit is estimated at the equivalent of
US$12.5 million. These will be packaged to the extent possible, and procured as follows: Goods
contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000 will be awarded on the basis of ICB for an estimated
total of US$I 1.0 million. In this case, the standard IDA document for procurement of goods by ICB,
published in January 1995 and last updated in March 2000, will be used. Contracts for goods estimated
to cost between US$100,000 and US$30,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3.1 1 million will
be awarded on the basis of NCB. Goods available in Mali, estimated to cost less than US$30,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000 equivalent, will be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures. These
goods include small quantities of items (office goods, consumable products and spare parts) which cannot
be grouped together into packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent. The request for written quotations
will be made in writing to at least three qualified suppliers. The contract will be awarded to the supplier
whose bid is judged to be in substantial conformity with the bid request at the lowest cost, on the
condition of being able to demonstrate the necessary experience and resources to provide the goods
within the required time frame. Small urgently-needed equipment and micronutrients estimated to cost
less than $200,000 may be procured through UN agencies (IAPSO).
Teaching and learning materials for preschool estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract will be
procured through national competitive bidding (NCB). Reprinting of previous textbooks estimated to
cost more than US$ 4 million will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB).
Copyrights for those textbooks are currently owned by Govemment, and firms will be asked only to
reprint without any adaptations. Textbooks for lower secondary estimated at US$I million will be
procured through ICB by asking publishers to propose existing books (off the shelf), meeting
pre-determined pedagogic criteria. Library books estimated to cost less than the aggregate amount of
US$250,000 will be procured through limited international bidding (LIB) by inviting specialized firms to
provide existing books from the shelf, and transport and deliver them to the Ministry of Education.
Domestic preference: The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto will apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the borrower.
Consultant Services: Consultant services to be financed by IDA (totaling US$7.7 million equivalent)
will be for: (i) Studies: architectural design, civil engineering services (including preparation of bidding
documents and supervision of works), the accounting system, the school evaluation system, the integrated
computerized data processing to track and analyze school data, financial management, and monitoring
and evaluation; (ii) the services of a contract management agency (CMA); (iii) twinning arrangements
with international institutions for knowledge transfer and technical assistance in the area of learning
assessment, local languages, in-service training and other areas; (iv) technical assistance in the area of
skill development, vocational training, capacity-building in management; (v) training; (vi) contracts with
NGOs for services appropriate to their specific strengths; (vii) research contracts; (viii) building ME's
capacity in education economics and use of the financial model of the education system; and (ix)
technical and financial audits.
Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (published in January 1997, last revised in January 1999).
Standard World Bank documents - Standard Request for Proposal: Selection of Consultants, will be used
whenever appropriate. Recruitment will be through competition among qualified firms short-listed on the
basis of replies to a request for Expression of Interest, in which the selection will be based on the
Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method. For financial and technical audit services, the Least
- 75 -



Cost Selection (LCS) will be the most appropriate method. For presentations and small studies which can
be provided by individuals, recruitment will be through comparison of qualifications among Individual
Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. When the estimated amount
is greater than US$100,000 equivalent, a Request for Expression of Interest will be published in a national
newspaper and in Development Business. Single Source Selection (SSS) will be used only on an
exceptional basis. For contract management, tutoring arrangements, and special expertise which can be
provided by NGOs, recruitment will be through consultants' qualification.
Services for the management of construction works contracts and for the supervision of construction works
will be procured by one of two procedures: (i) the Government of Mali has proposed to select AGETIPE
on a single source basis, as CMA for the first phase (for an amount less than the equivalent of US$20.8
million) because these services performed by an international firm would be too expensive and because
there is no other local firm with similar expertise in contract management. AGETIPE's activities would be
regularly subject to annual technical audits carried out by a highly qualified independent firm. AGETIPE
will contract necessary consultant services for the design and supervision of works, in accordance with the
procedures described in Schedule 3 of the DCA for procurement under IDA financing; (ii) given the large
number of small contracts to be managed for construction and school equipment in isolated rural areas, and
in order to ensure rapid payment of works and services, the Government of Mali has decided to used NGOs
as intermediaries since they have experience in working with community development. Service contracts
with NGOs will be based on simplified procedures as per the Bank's guidelines. After the end of the first
phase, selection of another CMA, in case of need, would be handled in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for the use of consulting services described in Annex 3 of the Credit Agreement for procurement
under IDA financing, and as described in detail in the Manual of Procedures. The selection method would
be through comparison of qualifications of the candidates, comparing their experience and competence in
the required area. The NGOs will sign a memorandum of agreement with the ME. The standard
memorandum of agreement must have been previously submitted to IDA and approved. The memorandum
of agreement will stipulate that: (i) the NGOs will receive an advance of 30% of the estimated cost of the
program of activities upon presentation of a request and a financial guarantee for an equivalent amount,
valid until the cost of the services reaches the corresponding amount; and (ii) approved expenditures will be
reimbursed upon presentation of supporting documentation. The NGOs will contract the necessary
consultant services for design and supervision of works, as per the procedures described in Annex 3 of the
Credit Agreement for procurement under IDA financing. For NCB, they will use standard bidding
documents previously submitted to IDA and approved.
The ME will maintain a list of intermediaries and NGOs who specialize in community-based construction.
This list will be updated annually and will be used for new consultations. At the end of the first phase, as
needed, selection of another intermediary on the basis of Single Source Selection will be considered in
accordance with the guidelines of the Bank for use of consultant services.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB          Other         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                          2.47          24.96         0.86          141.13       169.42
(2.10)       (20.79)       (0.73)         (0.00)       (23.62)
2. Goods                          11.00         3.11          0.50          72.11        86.72
- 76 -



(9.38)          (2.63)         (0.50)          (0.00)        (12.51)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00           7.74           39.19          46.93
of Consultants I Training            (0.00)          (0.00)          (7.74)         (0.00)          7.74)
4. Operating Costs                    0.00            0.00           0.09           237.00         237.09
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.08)          (0.00)         (0.08)
5. PPF                                0.00            0.00            1.05           0.00           1.05
(0.00)          (0.00)         (1.05)          (0.00)         (1.05)
Total                             13.47           28.07           10.24          489.43         541.21
(11.48)        (23.42)         (10.10)          (0.00)        (45.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local government units.
Procurement of goods includes the following amounts for: (a) textbooks: $5 million ICB, $0.10 million NCB,
$0.25 million other, for a total cost of $5.35 million all of which is financed by IDA., and for (b) equipment: $6
million ICB, $3.01 million NCB, $0.25 million other, and $72.11 million NBF for a total cost of $81.37 million, of
which $7.16 million is financed by IDA.
-77 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Contracts financed by IDA, or contracts financed by other donors and administered by IDA, above the
threshold of US$500,000 equivalent for civil works and contracts for goods above the threshold of
US$ 100,000 equivalent are subject to prior review by IDA. The first five contracts for works and goods
procured under national competitive bidding procedures will be subject to prior review by IDA. The prior
review requirement will apply to 80.4% of the total amount of contracts for goods and 100% of the amount
of contracts for textbooks - see Table B below. The preliminary versions of the bidding documents for
NCB were reviewed and approved during the negotiations.
For consultant services, all terms of reference for contracts under post review, and any single source
contracts will be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 for individuals and
US$100,000 for firms or more will be subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I of the Consultants' Guidelines. Contracts not subject to prior review will
be selectively reviewed (one in every four contracts) by IDA during project implementation and will be
governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Procurement Guidelines and the
last sub-paragraph of paragraph 2(a) and paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Consultants' Guidelines.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
coni'aci Value                                 C rat  i
Thres.o-               Procurement       -      PrRei
Expenditure Category      (UiS$thousands)              Metod                 (US  milU c
1. Works                  $200,000 and above              ICB                   Prior review
Below $200,000 and             NCB             Prior review of the first 5
above $30,000                                contracts; post review of
the following contracts
Below $30,000         Other (3 quotations)
Post review
2. Goods                  $100,000 and above              ICB                   Prior review
Between $30,000 and            NCB              Prior review of the first 5
$100,000                                   contracts; post review of
the following contracts
Below $30,000         Other (3 quotations)   Prior review of the first 5
contracts; post review of
the following contracts
3. ServicesTextbooks     (a) selection of titles at       ICB             Prior review of all bidding
central level                                     documents
Prior review of the first
(b) selection of titles at      Other           contract; post review of the
decentralized level                              following contracts
(c) Central purchase of         Other          Prior review of all contracts
selected books
- 78 -



4. Consultants' Services  (a) individual: more than  Section V of the Guidelines  Prior review
US$50,000
individual: less than  Section V of the Guidelines    Post review
US$50,000
(b) finns: more than   Quality-and Cost-Based         Prior review
US$100,000             Selection (QCBS)
firms: less than             SBQC                   Post review
US$100,000
(c) Audit           Least-Cost Selection         Post review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$19.00 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement situation and proposed course of action. The DAF team responsible for procurement
under the LIL will also handle procurement for the Education Sector Expenditure Program, and will be
reinforced for this purpose. It is already involved in the preparation of the draft procurement plan for the
program. Since the overall volume of work in the DAF will increase with implementation of this program,
a second procurement specialist, with construction expertise, will be hired. It is expected that this specialist
will receive training in working with IDA procedures in order to be fully operational by the time of
program effectiveness.
Although the DAF team has already received training in procurement for works, goods and services, it will
need further upgrading with additional training in procurement for works, goods and services, and
particularly as concerns consultant services. The action plan presented below presents the activities to be
undertaken in order to strengthen the overall capacity of the team and to improve the performance
indicators. An evaluation will take place at the end of the first year in order to examine the process by
which activities are chosen, those selected for service delivery, cost-effectiveness, community participation
and the implementation structure. This evaluation will lead to modifications of the Manual of General
Procedures and the planned implementation strategy. An additional evaluation will take place at the end of
the first phase in order to evaluate activities undertaken and processes followed, as part of the preparation
for subsequent phases.
During the negotiations: (a) the Government provided IDA with the following documents: (i) draft
procurement plan for works, goods, and services for Phase I and a detailed procurement plan for the first
year of the program; (ii) the preliminary version of the Manual of General Procedures for the program,
including the section on Procurement; the section on Accounting and Finance will be prepared prior to
effectiveness by a firm already hired for this purpose; (iii) sample bidding documents for contracts for
works and supplies under local competitive bidding; (b) the Government provided assurances that it will:
(i) use the Manual of General Procedures and all its specific sections; (ii) use the Bank's sample bidding
documents for international competitive bidding, and the standard bid evaluation report; (iii) conduct a
review of bidding procedures once a year in the course of the annual review conducted with IDA and the
other donors; (iv) include the plan and methodology for procurement in the annual review conducted with
IDA; and (v) take the necessary measures to ensure that the various stages in the procurement process do
not take longer than the times shown below:
- 79 -



Stages in procurement process          Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents       4 (12 for large contracts)
Preparation of proposals by potential  4 (12 for ICB)
bidders
Evaluation of proposals                2 (4 for large contracts)
Signing of contracts                   2
Payments                               4
Reinforcement of procurement capacities. A participative evaluation of DAF capacities was carried out
during the course of program preparation, following World Bank methodology developed to that end. The
resulting action plan, agreed upon during negotiations, is summarized below; compliance will be verified
during annual supervision reviews.
Areas of lack or insufficiency of    Action proposed            Performance Indicators
Expertise
1. The staff is now familiar with  1. Additional training will be made 1. The staff has produced at least
the preparation of bidding    available to staff prior to    4/5 bidding documents (for goods;
documents and bid evaluation  effectiveness. This training will  and Request for Consultants
reports with respect to both  focus on procurement of        Proposals and at least 4/5 bid
Malian regulation and IDA rules, consultant services.        evaluation report within 12
and has attended a training session                          months) acceptable to IDA.
on Bank's procedures. However,                               Staff with acceptable qualification
the quality of documents prepared                            has completed additional training
still requires improvement.                                 for consultants' services.
2. Insufficient number of qualified 2. The DAF procurement unit will 2. The new staff has produced at
staff to handle the volume of  be strengthened by recruitment of least 1/2 bidding documents (for
procurement work generated by a an additional qualified      goods/civil works; and Request for
sector expenditure program.   procurement specialist, with a    Consultants Proposals and at least
particular expertise in civil works. 1/2 bid evaluation reports within
12 months) acceptable to IDA
Staff has completed additional
training for goods/civil works and
consultants services.
- 80 -



3. The staff is now familiar with  3. Every 6 months, staff will  3. Updated procurement plan is
the procurement planning and  update the procurement planning  produced every 6 months by the
procurement filing, but has little  done during the appraisal mission; staff; the procurement plan is done
actual operational experience.    it will prepare the procurement   for the rest of the program, and all
plan for the rest of the program,  procurement-rated documentation
and file all procurement      is correctly filed. The annual
documentation. The annual     review will determine the level of
review will evaluate progress.    compliance with these
___requirements.
4. The staff is not familiar with   4. Staff will produce a summary  4. At least one acceptable
contract management.          of contract execution and ensure  summary report is produced by the
that payments are done on time.  staff before the first annual
review, demonstrating that both
the client and the
contractor/consultant have carried
out their obligations in accordance
with the provisions of the contract.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 81 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements of the IDA credit will be made for civil works, goods, consultant services and training and
operating expenses that are eligible for IDA financing. The credit would be disbursed over a period of 42
months, taking into account that the credifts closing date will be six months after the project completion
date. While operating under traditional disbursement procedures all disbursements will be fully
documented at the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against
Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Once the project's financial management is deemed satisfactory enough
to fulfill all the requirements of the Project Management Reports (PMR) based disbursements, it is
expected that traditional disbursement procedures for this project will be phased out. The proposal for
allocation of IDA Credit funds is given in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expendlitrt. Categoy   iit$i3. ..........               > in Ii;S$llIIo  Finacin  jXt:X0<tFPeArceneigao  i
1. Works                                   20.54
85%
2. Goods                                    10.05                    100% of foreign
expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services/Training             9.09                         100%
4. Operational Costs                        0.08                          85%
5. PPF                                      1.05
6. Unallocated                              4.19
Total Project Costs                        45.00
Total                                      45.00         _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the SA will be reduced
by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment applications will be fully documented except for:
(a) contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent for goods; (b) contracts of less than US$200,000
equivalent for works; (c) consulting services provided by individual consultants less than US$50,000
equivalent; and (d) consulting services provide by consulting firms less than US$100,000 equivalent. SOE
documentation will be retained by the DAF and made available for review as requested by auditors
(including technical audits) and by the World Bank supervision missions.
Special account:
(a) Special Account under Traditional Disbursement Procedures. To facilitate disbursements, the
Government will open an IDA Special Account at a commercial bank for IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocation of this amount would amount to US$ 4,000,000. The authorized
allocation shall be limited initially to an amount of US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit account plus the total amount of all outstanding commitments entered into by
the Association shall equal or exceed the equivalent of SDR 4,000,000. Each replenishment request will be
accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement. The IDA
- 82 -



Special Account will be managed by the DAF of the ME. All supporting documents would be retained by
the DAF and made available for review by periodic Bank missions and external auditors. Direct payment
by IDA would be made only for applications totaling at least 20% of the advance outstanding in the Special
Account.
(b) Special Account for Withdrawal Made on the Basis of PMR. Upon receipt of each application for
withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the PMR accompanying said
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance eligible expenditures during the six-month period
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the
amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of
FCFA 4,200,000,000.
Counterpart Funds, Project Account. The Government has agreed to deposit in a Project Account
opened in a commercial bank an annual amount equal to the amount of the initial deposit to replenish the
project accounts to their initial levels, at the latest by February 28 each year. At the time of negotiations,
Government agreed to make an initial deposit of US$ 1,000,000 equivalent in the Project Account, which is
a condition of IDA credit effectiveness. This Project Account will be managed by the DAF of the ME on
terms and conditions agreeable to IDA.
Financial management
Accounting and Financial Reporting. The DAF will be responsible for financial management of the
ESEP and will maintain the books and accounts. It will also be responsible for the production of the
annual financial statements. A local accounting firm with experience in project financial management has
been appointed to design a computerized accounting and financial management system using the accounting
software TOMPRO, based on internationally acceptable accounting principles agreed with the Bank. The
firm will also prepare the accompanying accounting manual, including a proper chart of accounts, the
various transaction cycles, the format, content and periodicity of the various financial statements to be
produced, the budgetary procedures and process (preparation, monitoring, variance analysis, etc.), and the
relevant internal controls. The draft manual has been reviewed and agreed to by IDA. The firm will be
responsible for the initial training of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient
operation of TOMPRO system. It will also be responsible for the preparation of a training program in
financial management with an implementation timetable for the duration of the project.
- 83 -



Project Management Reports. The project was appraised in July 2000 and needs to adopt a financial
management and reporting systems in compliance with the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI).
It has been agreed, therefore, to design the financial management system so that it can produce, in addition
to the basic financial statements (Balance sheet, Income statement, Sources and Applications of Funds),
other relevant quarterly financial management reports, namely (i) Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds,
(ii) Contract Expenditures Report - Goods & Works, (iii) Contract Expenditures Report - Consultants,
(iv) Procurement Management Report - Good & Works, and (v) Procurement Management Report -
Consultants, required under PMR-based disbursement. Since the capacity of DAF accounting and
financial staff is currently being reinforced through training and assistance under the LIL, disbursement
will be performed under traditional disbursement procedures for the first 12 months of implementation. It
is expected that full PMR-based (Quarterly PMR) will start in the first quarter of the second year of
implementation till project closing. This will require that IDA carry out a comprehensive and detailed
assessment of the project financial management to determine its full readiness for PMR at the end of six
months of implementation. A second assessment will be carried out at the end of the first year of
implementation to evaluate and effect the transition to PMR-based disbursement.
Auditing. During negotiations, the government provided assurance that: (a) project accounts will be
audited in accordance with international audit standards by an experienced and internationally recognized
audit firm acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and related project accounts will be submitted to IDA
within 6 months after the end of Government fiscal year; (b) in addition to their standard short-form report
with opinion, the auditors will be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOE as well
as the internal control procedures governing their preparation for the relevant period under audit, and
express a separate opinion thereon; and (ii) review the management and utilization of the special account
and express a separate opinion thereon as well; (c) the auditor will also finalize the review of the internal
control system of the project with a view to identify the major weaknesses and shortcomings and proposing
practical recommendations for improvement. The results of this review would be documented in a
Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit report.
The financial auditors will also perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review the internal
control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect within one month from
the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim reports will be addressed by
management without delay before the final audit (mostly 3-4 months after closing of the fiscal year of the
project). The contracting of auditors on a multi-year contract, acceptable to IDA, has already taken place;
certification by the financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational is a condition of
credit effectiveness. The IDA credit will only finance audit expenditures under incremental operating costs.
The accounting and financial management system that is being installed is acceptable but does not yet
permit the production of the different financial reports needed under LACI. Consequently, the system must
be reinforced. We recommend the use of traditional disbursement methods and propose the following
measures to strengthen the existing system and prepare the project to fully implement the LACI
disbursement procedures within 12 months after effectiveness:
*   Hiring of an accounting and auditing company which will design and help put in place an improved
financial management system which includes financial, cost and budget accounting and internal
financial control for the project. The accounting firm will draft the necessary financial procedures to
accompany the new system, prepare and carry out a training program for staff as well as providing
technical assistance for the first year of project execution. Selection of the accounting firm has already
taken place;
- 84 -



*   Training program for project staff as well as those in the decentralized and deconcentrated levels;
*   Installation of software, verification that it is operational and the training of staff on the software.
Administrative, accounting and financial procedures.
Actions                                    Dates      Status         Responsible
Selection of Accounting Firm               9/1/00     Done           Coordination
Draft accounting and financial procedures  7/1/00     Done           Consultant
for ESEP
Revision of the draft procedures for ESEP  7/15/00    Done           Government/IDA
Submission of the final report             9/15/00    Done           Consultant
TOMPRO software calibrated with ESEP      12/15/00    In process     Government/software
Costabs; acquisition of new computers                                consultant
Amendment to LIL auditor contract to      12/15/00    In process     Government
include ESEP
Assessment of financial management        12 months                  IDA
capacities, procurement, and physical    after project
execution of the project                 effectiveness
Implementation of the LACI                12 months                  Government/IDA
afler project
effectiveness
- 85 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Project Sc0heule                                   Planned _,_._                ,L_____,,,_
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                            36
First Bank mission (identification)             06/01/97                      06/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                      10/01/98                     07/10/2000
Negotiations                                    01/11/99                      10/31/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/02/99                      06/30/2001
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education
Preparation assistance:
Government financing of preparation teams; NGOs, private sector, and development staff of donor
agencies.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Robert Prouty                     Pr. Education Specialist
Linda English                     Human Resources Economist
Abdoulaye Ky                      Education Specialist
Habibata Thienta                  Education Specialist
Bettina Moll                      Education Specialist
Sakhevar Diop                     Textbook Specialist
Hans Wabnitz                      Lawyer
Abdoulaye Coulibaly               Financial Management Specialist
Aminata Maiga                     Education Specialist
Marylou Bradley                   Operations Officer
Tatiana Romero Rey                Early Childhood Development Specialist
Michel Perrault                   Decentralization Specialist
Ashutosh Dubey                    Human Resources Economist
Souleymane Zerbo                  Construction Specialist/Procurement Specialist
Donald Bundy                      School Health Specialist
Cheikh Sagna                      Consultant (Disadvantaged Children)
Amy Ba                            Team Assistant
Elsie Lauretta Maka               Team Assistant
A Quality Assurance Group was constituted to provide review and input at various phases of project
preparation and implementation. The Panel met initially from June 14-16, 2000 and was chaired by Ralph
W. Harbison (formerly Sector Director for Education in South Asia and currently Dean, School of
Education, State University of New York at Albany) and included Barbara Bruns, thematic group leader
for Education Reforn and Management, Human Development Network; Rosita Van Meel, Senior
Education Specialist, South Asia; and Demba Ba, Sector Manager for Private Sector Development, Africa
Region.
- 86 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
A. Project Implementation Plan
Ministere de l'Education (ME), Projet de Manuel de Proc6dures, lere version, juillet 2000.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
A Series of Technical Notes produced during the Project Pre-Appraisal and Appraisal Missions:
1) Decentralisation au Mali : Proposition d'Appui dans le Cadre du Projet "LIL" de la Banque mondiale.
2) Pddagogie Convergente : L' Apprentissage des Langues (premiere et deuxieme) a l'ecole primaire.
3) Les Enfants de la Rue au Mali: Le Cas de Bamako
4) La Composante des Manuels Scolaires.
5) Financial Simulation Model
C. Other
Commission Nationale de Refondation du Systeme Educatif Malien, Secretariat Permanent, Utilisation
des Langues Nationales dans le Systeme Educatif Malien (Cas de l'Education de Base), Decembre
1995.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Monographie du Suivi des Ecoles PAQE de la Region de Segou, Mars 1996.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Rapport d'Evaluation du Rendement des Eleves dans les Ecoles PAQE (Regions de: Kayes,
Sikasso, Segou et Mopti), Aout 1996.
Ministere de l'Education de Base, Ministere des Enseignements Secondaire, Superieur et de la Recherche
Scientifique, Evaluation du Rendement des Eleves dans les Ecoles Pilotes PAQE et Dans Un Groupe
d'Ecoles Temoins (1996).
Abdoulaye Ky, Reflexions sur les Difficultes Qui Ont Jalonne l'Extension de la Pedagogie Convergente,
1998
Republique du Mali, Programme Decennal de Developpement de l'Education : Les Grandes Orientations de
la Politique Educative, mai 1998.
Ministere de I'Education de Base, Evaluation de la Pedagogie Convergente et des Performances dans les
Ecoles Communautaires World Education, septembre 1998.
Ministere de I'Education de Base, DNAFLA-IPN, Rapport de Synthese des Activites de Pedagogie
Convergente, septembre 1997.
- 87 -



Ministere de I'Education de Base, Cellule de Planification et de Statistique, Indicateurs du Systeme
Educatifdu Mali, Avril 1999.
Muskin, Joshua A. (March 1997). An Evaluation of Save the Children's Community Schools Project in
Kolondieba, Mali.
Diemond, Jed. (August 1998). Community Schools in Mali: A Comparison of Save the Children/USA and
World Education.
USAID/Mali, Evaluation du Projet de Developpement de I'Education de Base (PDEB), mars 1998.
World Education, Etude de Base sur l'Education dans la Region de Segou, avril 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                      IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P001751       1994 Mali                       AG. RESEARCH                                       0.00      20.00       0.00       2.26      2.39       0.37
P001755       1995 Mali                       AGRO-PROCESSING TRD                                0.00       6.00       0.00       1.64       216       2.30
P001735       1996 Mali                       ECONOMICMGMT                                       000       60.00       000        9.36      11.78     11.96
P001748       2000 Mali                       FINANCE SECTOR DEVEL                               0.00      21.00       0.00      20.94       0.00      0.00
P035617       1998 Mali                       GRASSROOTSHUNIPOVT                                 000       21.50       000       14.55       3.52      0.00
P058770       2000 Mali                      IMPROVING LEARNING IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS               0.00       3.80       0 00       3.69       0.22      0.00
P040652       1999 Mali                      INTEGHEALTH SEC INV                                 0.00      40.00       0.00      36.17     2044        0.00
P001738       1997 Mali                      IRRIG PROMOTION                                     0.00       4.20       0 00       2.72       1.77      0.00
P001745       1992 Mali                       NATURAL RES. MGMT                                  000       20.40       0.00       0.34      -0.06     -020
P001747       1993 Mali                       PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                               0.00      12.00       0.00       383        4.68      4.40
P046651       1997 Mali                       REGIONAL POWER                                     0.00      17.10       0.00       9.51       7.27      0.00
P041723       2000 Mali                       RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                               0.00     115.10       000      114.90      0.00       0.00
P034617       1996 Mali                       SELINGUE REHAB.                                    0.00      27.30       0.00       5.37       6.78      0.00
P001730       1994 Mali                       TRANSPORT SECTOR                                   0.00      65.00       0.00      12.87      12.41      3.62
P001750       1997 Mali                       URBANDEVT&DECENTR                                  0.00      80.00       0.00      55.25      26.12      0.00
P001746       1996 Mali                       VOCATIONALEDUCTRNG                                 000       13.40       0.00       6.15       5.10      0.00
Total:        0.00     526.80         000      299.55    104.58      22.45
- 89 -



MALI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996               AEF GGG                         0.55    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.55    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Hotel Bamako                0.29    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00      0.00    0.00
0                 PAL-Rabelais                   0.21     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997/99            Randgold                        0.00    2.03     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.03      0.00    0.00
1997               SEF 3T                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Grand Hotel                 1.37    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.37    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               SEMOS                          14.00    4.80     0.00    10.00   14.00    4.80     0.00   10.00
1992/97            SOMISY                          7.00    0.00    0.00    10.50    7.00    0.00      0.00    10.50
Total Portfolio:        23.42     6.83    0.00    20.50    23.42     6.83     0.00    20.5(
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1996               AEF GGG                           0.00    386.81      0.00      0.00
1991               AEF-BOAM                          0.00      0.00    229.66      0.00
1997               BEN&Co                         5146.86      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999               Equipbail Mali                    0.00      0.00     71.29      0.00
2001               SEF Fibromat                     124.00     0.00       0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      5270.86    386.81.   300.95      0.00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALI: EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Saharan      Low-
Mali    Africa   Income        Development diamond'
1999
Ponoilation mid-vrar (miltions)                          1n t       R42      2.417                   Life expectancy
GNP ncr canita /At/as method. USSI                        240       500        410
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                          2f        321        98R
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
Pnnuslalion 1%1                                           2 8        26f        19
Labor force 1%t                                           2.5        2.6        2.3     GNP                                Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1993-991                                   capita                          nronllment
Povertv (% of DoDulation below national Doverfv line)      70          .         .
I/rhan nnnillation (% of total oooulationl                 29        34         31
I iet Pnenctanrv at hirlh Iyears)                          50         5n        60
Infant mortalitv (Der 1.000 live births)                 123         92         77
Child malniitritinn IX of children under 5)                27        32         43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source 1% of oooulatlon)          37        43         64
Illiterarv 1% of oooulation aoe 15+)                      an         39         39
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of schoo/-ae oooulation)        49         78        96              Mal  -Low-incomegroup
Maln                                                    58         R85       1 02
Frmalr                                                  40         71         as
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratlos
GDP tUSS billions)                               1 6      2.2        2.8        2.5
Gross dnmestic investmnnt/i/GP                 155       217        209       212 T2d
Exsorts of ooods and services/GDP              12.0      16.7       24.5      24.9                       rade
Gross domestic savinns/GnP                      n 2       57        11 2       10 1
Gross national savinns/Gl)P                      1 2     121        13 5       12 R
Crirrent acrmint halanre/GrP                  -13 9      -8 1       -7 3       -9.3
Interest navmAnts/rnP                            1 2      n 7        n 7        1 0     Domestic             00       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                184.3      96.1      105.6     118.6       Savings
Total debt sArvir.e/e.snorts                   49 1      172        1n 0       11 5
Present value of debt/GDP                              .            78.4      55.1
Present value nf dehl/esnnrts                               .      294 9     191 3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999-03
taverace annual arowthh
r.nP                                   0        33        34         55        63         -     Mali -      Low-income group
GNP nr canita                         -2 3      02        n7         2R        32
Exsorts of ooods and services          5.3      9.5      -1.2       14 6       4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investrnent and GDP I%S
i% of GDPI
Anricilhtire                                  fi1 4      47 R       4R5       46 5
Industrv                                        99       142        173       167       10
Maniufacturinn                                 4 5      8 5        4 3        41          _
Srrvicrs                                       2R 7   3R0    3 2   3R R    -                          S 96 S 8 s s
Privat cnonstlmntion                           88 3      an 7       77 5      77 3      .20
General novernment nonsinmntinn                11 4      13 6       11 3      12 R                     G01     -      GDP
Imoorts of noods and services                  27.2      32.7       34.2      36.0
1979-B9  1989-99       1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(aversae annua/ orowlthl
Aariculture                                     2 2       2.4        06         8.6     45
Indiltrv                                        46        65         70        20       30
Manufacturino                                  7.0      3.3        1.2       -2.1
Srrvires                                        09        24         48         34      15is
Private consumotion                             0.0       2.2        4 3        12
General novernment nnnsiimntinn                 87        38        -2 4       16 2            s      s           97   98   99
Grnss dnmestic investment                        1 8     -03        1n 1        1 9    -ts
Imnnrts nf nonds and ServiRS                    6 7       2 R        21        5 6                   Exports       lmports
Grnss natinnal nrodimlt                         n1        31         3 7       5 6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv lin boldl comoared with its income-orouo averaoe. If data are missina. the diamond will
he incomnlete
- 91 -



Mali
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Infation(%)
DomestUc prices
'% change)                                                                          30
Consumer prices                                 -.     -o i       4.1      -12 2     0
Implicit GDP deflator                         11.4     -1.2       4.0      -2.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         94   95   96   97
Current revenue                               80.9     18.5      17.7      17.9     -
Current budget balance                        31.5      8.0        5.5      4.3                    DP deflator     CPI
Overall surplusideficit                      -31.8     -6.5       -7.0     -8,11
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           515      269        561       566     I o- .
Cotton                                       213      141       250       244
Gold                                         222       25       226       231       750 .
Manufactures                                                                           i 5     *    *    *         _
Total imports (ci)                            773      496        759       822 s
Food                                          99       68       123       105       250
Fuel and energy                              105       44        88       112
Capital goods                                217      155       218       231
Exoort Doice index 11995=100)                  69       92         83        76
Imnort orice index (1995=1001                  82       81         84        87                 * Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade 11995=100)                      85      114         99        88
BALANCE ofPAYMENTS
(IUSS millions)                              1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 191      334        644       650      a
Imports of goods and services                 434      657        912       949        l
Resource balance                             -243      -322      -267      -299
Net income                                      -9     -18        -51       -45
Netcurrenttransfers                            29   161    115   107                   ,  II  11111
Current account balance                      -222      -179      -203      -237
Financing items (net)                         225      310        142       181        I
Changes in net reserves                        -3    -130          61        56     -2
Memo:
Reserves includino aold (USSmillions)          16      123        297       224
Conversion rate DEC. local/USS)              212.7    289.4      557.8    631 3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
IUSS millions)                                                                       Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,941    2,127      2,941     3,018
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0                       083
IDA                                       1,013      432      1,013     1,035
Total debt service                            121       70         74        84                  B1,013
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                          16        5         16        18       E 1.112
Composition of net resource flows
Offilal grants                              146      195        201       151
Official creditors                           67      149         67        86
Private creditors                           -16       28          0         3
Foreign direct investment                     0       15         17        16                                   C C6S
Portfolio equity                                                                                   o 568
World Bank program
Commitments                                  52       57         86         0     A -I8RD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                48       48         48        57     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          8        2          8        11    IC -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                    40       46         40       46
Interest payments                             8        3          8         7
Net transfers                                32       43         32        39
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/12100
- 92 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Triggers for Phases 2 and 3 of the Adaptable Program Loan
MALI: Education Sector Expenditure Program.
The Program approaches the challenges facing the education sector from three complementary
perspectives: (i) helping the system build more schools and hire more teachers, (ii) improving quality in
such a way that student learning increases, and (iii) improving overall system management, in part through
decentralizing most responsibility and authority for service delivery. The first phase of the Program is
designed to put the framework for this approach solidly into place. Satisfactory achievement of the
performance indicators for each phase is a trigger for the subsequent phase. There are 3 more performance
triggers for each of the follow-up loans linked to these 3 components. The second phase is to be largely
managed at the regional level:
Phase 2 Triggers. There are 4 general triggers conditioning the transition to Phase 2: (a) satisfactory
achievement of Phase I performnance indicators, and (b) one trigger for each of the 3 components financed
in Phase 1. For each trigger under (b), there is a set of criteria determining readiness. The triggers are as
follows; the criteria are provided in Table 1:
(a)    Access. Agreement between ME and regional directors on school construction;
(b)    Quality. Evaluation of the various pilot initiatives conducted during Phase 1;
(c)    Decentralized management. Existence of capacity to manage the education system at the regional
level, linked to the preparation of regional education development plans.
Table 1: Criteria for evaluating Phase 2 Triggers.
Access           The poverty targeted school map is in place and operational; the communes are
familiar with it; it is used for preparing the regional education development plans;
decisions regarding low-cost construction based on the Phase I testing are
incorporated into these plans.
Quality          The Reading First Program piloted in 345 schools is formally evaluated and
strategies for Phase 2 are agreed;
The pedagogie convergente program is formally evaluated and decisions regarding
expansion of national language use for Phase 2 are agreed;
Agreement is reached on how to implement the multiple-title textbook program;
-93 -



Decentralized    ME organizational structure, decentralized management and policy analysis
management       capacity are strengthened and judged acceptable by IDA;
Capacity for financial management at central, regional and local levels has been
put in place and is judged acceptable by IDA;
Agreement is reached on education budget levels, including level of financing for
non-salary operating expenditures at the regional level.
All 9 regions have prepared education development plans in a participative manner
for 2000-04. Of these, at least 7 have been evaluated and judged acceptable by a
commission including ME, IDA, and other donor representatives, based on
appraisal criteria detailed below:
Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the regional education development plans. The
education development plans will be appraised by a commission comprising a steering
committee (Comite d'Orientation et de Suivi) and key donor representatives. A DRE or
an IEF cannot chair meetings of the appraisal commission for the education development
plans of his/her own region. The evaluation criteria that each plan must satisfy are set out
in the accompanying grid. For approval, a regional education development plan must
satisfy all of the criteria. If one or several criteria are not satisfied, an action plan will be
adopted and serve as a contract between the Comit d 'Orientation et de Suivi and the
region in question in order to make up the deficiency.
Table 2 Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the regional education development
plans
Access           The development of ECD centers is in line with the strategy of community-based
initiatives;
Access goals are defined by the region and the rural communities compatible with
national goals and seek to address poverty and gender targeting criteria in terms of
coverage and regional parity;
Agreed roles and procedures for communes, parents' associations and NGOs in
"planting" new schools and converting existing schools into communal schools;
The construction program respects the norms for managing the school mapping
process defined by local governments, paying particular attention to the proposed
increase in multigrade schooling;
The school maintenance and facilities management system is tested before its
generalization.
- 94 -



Quality          Quality objectives are defined in terms of pass rates/repetition rates for boys and
girls, improved results on standardized tests;
Each pilot school prepares, implements and tests initiatives of the Reading First
Program;
The program for in-service teacher training is clear; it is teacher-driven and based
on expressed need;
The objectives for the program of special initiatives targeting repetition and
dropout are clearly defined and the implementation strategies clearly described;
The textbook distribution system is functional and textbook policy is adopted and
implemented;
The program to expand teaching in national languages takes into consideration the
results of the Learning Improvement Project and first phase pilot testing of the new
curriculum.
Decentralized    The cost of the regional education development plan is correctly analyzed,
Management       distributed among ME and local communities and is compatible with national goals
and the financial framework set by the ESEP;
The objectives regarding recruiting teachers and managing them at the regional
level are well defined, as are the measures proposed to meet these objectives;
The involvement of local communities (cercle and the commune levels) is clearly
identified;
The unit cost goals within the region are known and fit with the objectives of the
ESEP framework.
Phase 3 Triggers. The third phase is to be largely managed at cercle and the commune
level. There are 4 general triggers conditioning the transition to Phase 2: (a) satisfactory
achievement of Phase 2 performance indicators, and (b) one trigger for each of the 3
components financed in Phase 2. For each trigger under (b), there is a set of criteria
determining readiness. The triggers are as follows; the criteria are provided in Table 3:
(a)    Access. Agreement between ME and local government officials regarding procedures to eliminate
disparities in access among regions, departments, towns, urban and rural settings, and boys and girls;
(b)    Quality. Evaluation of initiatives taken to scale during the second phase and related decisions
taken for preparing the third phase; and
(c)    Decentralized management. existence of capacity to manage the education system at the
- 95 -



commune (basic education) and the AE (secondary/higher education ) levels, including the preparation and
approval of a sustainable action plan and budget for each IEF.
Table 3: Criteria for evaluating Phase 3 Triggers.
Access:          The poverty targeted school map is in place and operational; the local collectivities
are familiar with it and use it for preparing the cercle education development plan;
Quality          The Reading First Program is evaluated and decisions for Phase 3 are taken;
Expansion of the introduction of national languages is evaluated and decisions for
Phase 3 are taken;
The multiple-title textbook program is formally evaluated and strategies for Phase
3 are agreed.
Decentralized    ME organizational structure, decentralized management and policy analysis
management       capacity are strengthened and judged acceptable by IDA;
Capacity for financial management at central, regional and local levels has been
put in place and is judged acceptable by IDA;
Cercle education plans, prepared for 2007-10 in a participative manner at the
cercle and commune level have been evaluated and judged acceptable by a
commission including ME and IDA, and other donor representatives, based on
appraisal criteria detailed below:
Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the cercle education development plans. The plans
will be appraised by a commission comprising a steering committee (Comite d 'Orientation
et de Suivi) and key donor representatives. A DRE or an IEF cannot chair meetings of the
appraisal commission for the cercle education development plans of his/her own region.
The evaluation criteria that each plan must satisfy are set out in the accompanying grid.
For approval, a cercle education development plan must satisfy all of the criteria. If one or
several criteria are not satisfied, an action plan will be adopted and serve as a contract
between the Comite d'Orientation et de Suivi and the region in question in order to make
up the deficiency.
Table 4: Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the cercle education development plans
- 96 -



Access           Access goals are defined by cercles and communes and seek to eliminate existing
inequalities in terms of coverage and regional disparity;
The development of ECD centers is in line with the strategy of community-based
initiatives;
The construction program respects the norms for managing the school mapping
process defined by local governments, paying particular attention to the proposed
increase in multigrade schooling;
The school maintenance and facilities management system is tested before its
generalization.
Quality         Quality objectives are defined by the cercle and commune in terms of pass
rates/repetition rates for boys and girls, improved results on standardized tests;
The Reading First Program is expanded to national scale taking the pilot phase into
account;
The program for in-service teacher training is clear; it is teacher-driven and based on
expressed need;
The objectives for the program of special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout
are clearly defined and the implementation strategies clearly described;
The textbook distribution system is functional and textbook policy is adopted and
implemented;
The program to expand teaching in national languages takes into consideration the
results of the Learning Improvement Project pilot testing of the new curriculum.
Decentralized    The cost of the cercle education development plan is correctly analyzed, distributed
Management       among ME and local communities and is compatible with national goals and the
financial framework set by the ESEP;
The objectives regarding recruiting teachers and managing them at the regional level
are well defined, as are the measures proposed to meet these objectives;
The involvement of local communities (cercle and the commune levels) is clearly
identified;
The unit cost goals within the region are known and fit with the objectives of the
ESEP framework.
- 97 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Letter of Sector Policy
MALI: Education Sector Expenditure Program
November 1, 2000
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank Group
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Mr. President,
This letter of education sector policy describes the Government's intent to entirely revamp Mali's education
system. It is consistent with the Ten-Year Education Development Program Overall Framework and
emphasizes specific strategies to be undertaken during the first phase of this program.
The existing educational system is overly centralized and reaches only a small portion of school-aged
children. Diagnostic studies reveal an underperforming educational system characterized by weak internal
and external efficiency. The system is in need of a complete overhaul in order to meet the expectations of
the Malian people, and to respond to the new needs of the country within the context of sub-regional
integration. A clear need has emerged, not just for reform and renovation, but for fundamental
restructuring. The preparation of the Overall Framework for educational policy is in itself illustrative of
the changing approach, in that development of this Ten-Year Education Development Program was
prepared through a participative, collaborative dialogue with the system's partners; the program reflects a
national consensus.
In order to meet its objectives, the program has adopted a decentralization policy, in keeping with the
policies of the 3rd Republic. This means: (i) shifting activities to Ministry branch offices, (ii) moving
certain responsibilities out of the Ministry to local municipalities, along with a transfer of skills and
resources, and (iii) recognizing and redefining the shared roles of various actors within the system.
In order to correct weaknesses and to ensure sustainability, the Ten-Year Education Development Program
has set eleven priorities, as follows:
*   Quality basic education for all;
*   Vocational training based on the needs of the economy;
*   A new, effective general and technical secondary program;
*   A high-quality higher education system that responds to priority needs at manageable cost;
*   Use of national languages along with French within the education system;
*   A policy for books and teaching materials that works;
*   A consistent teacher education policy;
*   Development of true partnerships centered on the school;
*   Institutional adjustments and restructuring needed to overhaul the education system;
*  A communications policy built around dialogue and collaboration with all partners;
*   A carefully thought out fnancial policy that is consistent and balanced, and matches the needs of a
decentralized system.
- 98 -



Since the restructuring of our system, adopted by consensus by the government of Mali and its internal and
external partners, is being undertaken through a sector-wide approach, it can only be implemented and
sustained if certain conditions are first met. The restructuring aims to achieve:
-      a better quality of teaching;
-      the strengthening of pre- and in-service teacher education;
-      increasing the intake capacity of the system;
-      improving finaRcial and personnel management
-      improving access and enrollments.
In the long run, the restructuring of the Malian education system will lead to:
-      improved learning;
-      increased access to education;
-      decentralized system management.
The Ten-Year Education Development Program is part of the struggle to eliminate poverty. To this end, it
includes three key factors: (i) HIV/AIDS, (ii) school health and nutrition, and (iii) gender.
I - Measures proposed to restructure the Malian education systenL
It has been demonstrated that no country can achieve lasting development without a high-performing
education system capable of adapting to the increasingly fast pace of change. The underlying principle is
to put the school at the center of the process around which the education system is developed. The
government intends to adopt a series of measures in order to lead to lasting and irreversible changes:
A - Measures linked to improving quality and support for learning
The existing teaching programs are not adapted to the needs of learners.
Measure 1: Implementation of a new policy for Early Childhood Development
The government, aware of the importance of services provided to very young children in terms of their
future development, will use traditional approaches as a starting point to promote ECD.
Measure 2: Curriculum reform
Basic education skills include reading, writing, arithmetic and life skills. Yet ongoing training programs do
not allow students to gain the knowledge, skills and aptitudes most needed by the country.
This measure will include:
*   implementation of a general curriculum framework;
*   preparation and implementation of a new competency-based curriculum for basic education
centered on the basic learning needs of students;
* establishment and functioning of a curriculum development unit;
* revision of training content in the Teacher Training Institutes;
* revision of the content for general secondary teaching and learning;
* rewriting of vocational training programs and integrating new technologies in order to achieve a
better fit with the labor market;
*   implementation of dual training in order to take advantage of the possibilities that could be offered
to students and apprentices by private and public sector businesses;
* introduction of gender sensitization into teacher education programs;
* reinforcement of the use of national languages at all levels of the education system;
99 -



Measure 3: Implementation of an incentive-basedframeworkfor training, recruitment and management
of teaching personnel.
One of the main weaknesses of the Malian system is the lack of qualified teachers. The public teacher
training structures do not favor initiative-taking, particularly as regards creation of training modules,
management of school resources, and the better use of financing to support training. To this end, the
govemment plans the following:
3.1 For teacher training:
* information and awareness campaigns to attract more high school graduates to the teaching
profession;
* revision of the rules regulating the Teacher Training Institutions (IFMs), granting them increased
autonomy (including, for example, the possibility of delegating management responsibilities to the
private sector);
* revision of the status of student teachers who will receive advance salaries during their training;
* creation in each region of an IFM adapted to the region's training needs and strengthening the
Arabic-language IFM in Timbuktu;
* partial reimbursement of community school teachers under government's budget;
* implementation of a career plan for teachers.
3.2 For vocational training:
* consolidation of achievements of the Vocational Training Consolidation Project and of the
experience of the Business Training and Support Units (UFAE);
* undertaking of periodic studies of "cost-efficiency" and rational use of teaching personnel.
Measure 4: Teacher education
With regard to the new objectives of the education system, the Ten-Year Education Development Program
proposes new teacher profiles and improved training. An emphasis will be placed on pre-service training
that is more pragmatic and more closely linked to classroom realities; in-service teacher education will
similarly develop closer classroom linkages. This will require the following activities:
* training of 9800 basic education teachers over the next 4 years;
* an information and awareness campaign geared to attracting and keeping teachers in the system,
and recruiting sufficient numbers of quality teachers;
taking measures to attract more women to the teaching profession;
* training CAP directors, pedagogical advisors and school directors who will take responsibility for
supervising their teachers and assigned teacher candidates;
* strengthening of pre- and in-service education of pre-school monitors;
* strengthening of pre- and in-service education of IFM trainers and secondary and vocational
education teacher trainers;
* pre- and in-service education of community school teachers, as well as pedagogic supervision;
* improvements to the quality of classroom teaching by institutionalizing in-service education;
* organizing short internships in businesses for teacher trainers; and
* reinforcing the vocational linkages of higher education, particularly through establishing two-year
degree programs.
Measure 5: Rational use of teaching personnel.
Given the important needs for additional teaching personnel, notably for basic education over the first four
years of the program, the number of directors without teaching responsibilities will not exceed 415 for
Grades 1-6 and 199 for Grades 7-12.
Government will reduce the disparities in work load identified in terms of teaching personnel for Grades
- 100 -



7-9. To this end, it will apply the existing rules (24 teaching hours per week).
Measure 6: Greater attention will be given to community schools by the government in order to improve
quality.
During the last few years, community schools have excelled by adapting their programs to the real-life
needs of their students, in spite of the considerable difficulties by which these schools have been confronted.
In order to ensure equity and quality, the government commits to helping to cover the salary costs of
teachers in these schools. The government will also subsidize the costs of building and furnishing
classrooms, as well as provision of teaching materials in the community schools.
Measure 7 : Implementation of a policy by which books and learning materials are available in the
schools.
Teaching materials and textbooks are in short supply throughout the education system. There are also real
weaknesses in the management of these materials, particularly for textbook stocks. The following activities
are planned::
*   adoption and implementation of a school book policy which supports gradual privatization of the
processes of writing, publishing, and distributing textbooks;
*   adoption of approaches which will support the development of privately-held national publishing
firns;
*   turning the production and distribution of textbooks over to the private sector;
*   extending activities undertaken through the Improving Learning Project for providing basic
education schools with books as part of the convergent pedagogy initiative;
*   reprinting and distributing textbooks for Grades 7-9 and for general secondary (Grades 10-12);
*   availability of books in community schools on an equal basis with public schools;
*   planning for the management of textbook stocks, particularly by establishing a textbook rental
system with appropriate monitoring (for basic education and for secondary).
B - Measures related to access and increasing enrollment rates
Measure 8: Improving school and universityfacilities
The supply of educational opportunities remains weak, particularly in rural areas. The objective of 70%
GER for primary schooling by 2004 will require:
*   opening 6000 new classrooms;
*   building 2000 office and storage facilities;
*   building 5000 3-unit latrines;
*   renovating 2000 classrooms and replacing an additional 1000 classrooms.
Government proposes to build 5 new high schools, to renovate 16 other high schools, to build 6 technical
secondary schools and to renovate 4 others. It will also build 9 women's learning centers and 4 teacher
training institutes. 14 pedagogic support centers will be built and 20 others renovated. It will also
undertake studies and works, renovating and furnishing higher education establishments, including: student
residences, university library, University technological institutes, the ESITEX of Segou, and the National
In-service Training Center.
Measure 9: Construction modalities.
The government has chosen to favor a participative approach to school construction in order to cope with
the great needs and the shortage of resources. The government, with donor support, will work on a pilot
basis work with communities wishing to build a school. It will provide a subsidy of CFAF 22 million per
- 101 -



classroom. Along with this experimental work, it will continue to pursue construction of schools by
municipalities with durable materials via delegated contract management.
Mali has a rich experience as regards school construction: delegation of contract management to
AGETIPE, direct contract management by the Ministry through consulting or architectural firms, direct
management of contracts by municipalities. The government intends to use all three of these approaches to
implementation depending on the nature, the arnount and the source of financing:
- Delegation of contract management to AGETIPE will take the form of a contract between AGETIPE and
the Ministry of Education. AGETIPE will sign contracts with implementing agencies which will undertake
studies and prepare bidding documents. Once contracts have been signed with construction firms, these
agencies will ensure monitoring and technical follow-up at the construction sites, and handle payments.
AGETIPE will provide supervision through an engineer who will act as project manager. Under this
scenario, AGETIPE will manage all contracts.
- Contract management through consulting or architectural firms. The Ministry will sign contracts directly
with implementing agencies and ensure supervision of works.
- Direct contract management by municipalities. Through this system, the municipalities will sign
contracts with construction companies. They may receive assistance from branch offices of the Ministry.
This will require strengthening the CPS as to its supervisory personnel: three engineers at the central level
of whom one will take responsibility for the northern region, two technical experts for each region except
for Kidal, where only one technical expert will be provided.
Measure 10 : Development of Educational Development Centers (CED) and Functional Literacy
Centers (CAF).
The formal education system alone will not be able to provide all of Mali's children with basic education
over the course of the next ten years. Non-formal education, particularly in the context of the CEDs, will
be a needed complement for providing basic skills training. The CEDs are geared to unschooled youth and
to school dropouts, thus contributing to increasing overall literacy. In order to achieve its goals, the
government will undertake the following activities within the context of non-formal education:
-   increasing the number of CEDs in order to provide out-of-school youth with the opportunity to
learn basic skills;
*   increasing the number of adult literacy centers in order to increase adult literacy rates, particularly
for women;
*   mobilizing and involving local municipalities, NGOs and communities in preparing and
implementing plans for literacy, basic education, and training;
*  ensuring government support to communities by paying the salaries of CED educators and
providing teaching materials.
C - Measures relating to the decentralization of management of the education systemL
By recognizing the complementarity of activities undertaken by various stakeholders, it has been possibly
to clarify the roles and responsibilities of each. A partnership has been developed by means of which each
has contributed to restoring a stable atmosphere to the education sector. It will be crucial to the well-being
of the sector to sustain this ongoing dialogue at each phase of program implementation through
information, communication, and the garnering of support from all stakeholders. The measures to be taken
include the following
- 102 -



- implementation of new institutional arrangements;
- implementation of a communications plan;
- implementation of a true partnership;
- improving the living and working conditions of teachers.
Measure 11: A functional new institutional arrangement.
The set of measures that the Ministry intends to adopt in order to revamp its education system will require
an institutional restructuring. New structures will need to be created and regulations will need to be
reworked in order to achieve the new objectives of the educational policy:
*   creation of a unit to support implementation of the decentralization initiative;
*   identification of individuals to be transferred;
*   information provided to partner institutions and individuals leading to greater awareness;
*   harnessing of community support through appropriate communications strategies;
*   preparation of regional and sub-regional plans;
*   creation of a framework for recruiting municipal teachers;
*   support for implementing the decentralization process on a pilot basis at selected test communes;
*   following up on ongoing experiences in order to propose initial criteria to be followed by
municipalities in decentralizing educational structures;
*   improving the quality of training and working conditions for education personnel.
Measure 12 : Actual educational decentralization.
Within the context of decentralization, it is planned to involve both local governments and the local branch
offices of the central government. To this end, the following activities will be undertaken:
*   shifting education system activities to local governments (decentralization) and to local branch
offices of the Ministry of Education (deconcentration);
* shifting of individuals and financing to the local governments;
X   increasing awareness and accountability of all stakeholders at the regional level as regards
management of secondary school scholarships and enrollments;
* a policy of providing incentives to the private sector, to local government, to municipalities and to
NGO to invest in the creation of ECD centers;
*   gradual creation of management committees within schools beginning in December 2000;
*   preparation and implementation of school projects beginning in March 2001;
*   training of teachers and management committee members in the "school project" approach;
*   involvement of management committees in spending teaching material budgets;
*   implementation of partnerships involving business enterprises and local governments in
development projects;
Measure 13: Improving the institutionalframeworkfor higher education as regards training and
research.
The institutional framework for higher education does not provide sufficient autonomy for certain key
elements needed to improve training and research. To achieve this, the following activities are planned at
the level of higher education:
*   granting of autonomy to the higher education institutes, and providing training to their personnel in
the "school project" approach;
*   training of professors and faculty assembly members in the "school project" approach;
*   preparing "school projects" for higher education beginning in March 2001;
*   strengthening the various organizational entities to carry out their responsibilities for pre-service
education, in-service education, and research, as well as those which have a regional role;
- 103 -



D - Cross-cutting measures
These are components that can be expected to have a significant impact on a range of components.
Measure 14: Coordination, implementation and monitoring of the Program.
In terms of coordinating and implementing the prograam, the government is proposing that implementation
responsibilities be shared by the central ministry and its branch offices. The PRODEC Cellule Technique
will be responsible for overall monitoring of the reform during the first phase. It also has the mission of
ensuring during a transitional period that the reform process is truly owned by cabinet members, by
personnel of the central and branch offices of the ministry.
The Pedagogic Centers (CAP) will be the key local unit responsible for implementation of the Ten-Year
Education Development Program (PRODEC). The Pedagogic Centers replace the current Basic Education
Inspectorates (IEF). They have a more wide-ranging set of responsibilities, including the following:
*   organizing internships and seminars for pedagogic advisors, teachers and school directors;;
*   taking part in the mentoring and training of teacher candidates;
*   evaluating teachers;
*   helping to mobilize support for enrollment objectives, particularly for girls;
*   helping to organize school exams;
*   ensuring that plans for construction within the education sector are respected (carte educative);
*   overseeing the preparation of cercle level education development plans.
CAP directors will receive in-service training in order to successfully carry out their responsibilities.
The new regional academies will replace the regional directorates of education. They will have greater
autonomy as regards financial and administrative management. The regional academies will coordinate
educational services in collaboration with local government and will provide technical support as needed to
various stakeholders (branch office personnel, local government, communities, private providers of
education services, etc.). They will also supervise and monitor secondary and higher education institutions.
The regional academies will implement national policies with regard to education: teaching and research,
planning, evaluation and school statistics, curriculum, training, financial and administrative management,
use of national languages and adapting teaching programs to local realities. A National Consultative
Committee will be created for implementing the program. The Planning and Statistics Unit (CPS) will
serve as secretary for this Committee.
Measure 15: A national consensus regarding allocation of the government budget.
Within the macroeconomic framework, the government has committed itself to providing sufficient
financing for the priority sectors, including education. A particular emphasis is being placed on basic
education as per the broad outlines of the educational policy.
- 104 -



Measure 16: A new policy for resource allocation favoring collective use expenditures rather than
individual scholarships based on performance and gender criteria and training program.
Scholarships, which were initially introduced to reward excellence and to help needy students, no longer
fully respond to these concems. In addition, it has become increasingly difficult to verify the social criteria
as part of the selection process. Many ineligible students receive scholarships.. Finally, there have been no
specific strategies to encourage girls to enroll in higher education. This has led to a situation where more
than 50% of the higher education budget is going to pay for scholarships, with a negative impact on quality
improvement measures, and attempts to strengthen teaching and research. Faced with this situation, the
government has adopted a new policy for managing scholarships, with new criteria. The following actions
will be undertaken:
*   application of new criteria for granting scholarships, and for computerized management;
*   gradual implementation of student services;
*   application of a ceiling for higher education scholarship allocations;
*   gradual elimination of secondary scholarships beginning in 2001: (i) For general secondary,
scholarships will go from 1.2 billion CFA francs in 2001 to 800 million CFA francs in 2002, 700
million CFA francs in 2003 and 0 francs in 2004; (ii) For Vocational and Technical Education,
scholarships will go from 700 million CFA francs in 2001 to 500 million CFA francs in 2002, 300
million CFA francs in 2003 and 0 francs in 2004; economies gained by eliminating scholarships
will be reinvested in improving the quality of teaching through purchase of teaching material and
equipment;
*   the implementation of strategies, including targeted scholarships, to encourage greater participation
of women in higher education.
Measure 17: The struggle against highly prevalent diseases, including malaria and HIV/AIDS.
The struggle against highly prevalent diseases such as malaria and HIV/AIDS is a fundarnental necessity in
the implementation of the Ten-Year Education Development Program, since it goes to the heart of the
teaching and learning process and all levels. A campaign will also be developed for prevention of
sexually-transmitted diseases (STDs) and female genital mutilation (FGM).
Measure 18: The role of women
The Ministry of Education, through the Ten-Year Education Development Program, will prepare a "gender
and development" strategy placing a heavy emphasis on equity throughout the system. The gender aspect
will be taken into consideration for all of the components of the Ten-Year Program. Specific actions
include:
-      encouraging greater access for girls to formal and non-formal education;
-      eliminating all sexist stereotypes in the content of teaching and learning programs;
-      increasing the percentage of female teacher candidates in the IFMs;
-      increasing the percentage of women in the teaching corps.
Measure 19: A communication program based on dialogue and collaboration.
For implementation of the Ten-Year Education Development Program, it is crucial to encourage a
permanent dialogue with all stakeholders at each phase. Specifically, government will:
-      keep all stakeholders informed and aware throughout program implementation;
-      put necessary mechanisms in place to ensure information flows from bottom to top and from top to
bottom;
-      strengthen and redirect program activities as a response to information flows, as part of the
- 105 -



communications strategy.
Measure 20: A development of the private secotor.
Despite the many challenges it has been facing, the past years have seen an increased involvement of the
private sector in Mali educational development. In the context of the Ten-Year Education Development
Program, the government policy toward this sector is to significantly increased its involvement at all levels
and particularly at the secondary and higher education levels; and more precisely in the sector of vocational
training. Specifically, this mean the alleviation of procedures in the creation and opening of schools, the
provision of grants and the creation of vocational training schools in co-management with the private
sector.
II - Performance Indicators
For the various measures to be implemented, the following indicators are proposed:
1 - Quality
(i) A textbook ratio of two books per primary and four per middle school student will be reached.
(ii) Grade repetition will drop from 23% in 1998 to 13% in 2004; the dropout rate will decrease from
8% to 5%. Similarly, the repetition rate in middle school will decrease from 20% to 10%. For
secondary, the repetition rate will drop from 25% to 13%.
(iii) The budget on secondary scholarships amounting to CFAF 2.4 billion in 2000 will be spent
entirey on quality-enhancing inputs by 2004.
(iv) 80% of children will read at an acceptable degree of fluency by the end of Grade 2.
2 - Access
(i) The primary gross enrollment rate will reach 70% by the 2003-04 school year from about 50% in
the 1999-2000 school year; that of girls will increase from 46% to 58%.
(ii) Class size in primary schools will decrease to 50 in 2003-04.
(iii) At least 32% of secondary students will be enrolled in vocational education.
3 - Decentralized management
(i) The actual number of weekly hours taught by middle school teachers will increase from 15 to 18
in 2003-04.
(ii) Education's share of the total budget will increase to 27% in 2004 with basic education increasing
from 56% in 1998 to 61% in 2004; secondary will remain at 24% and higher education will drop from
19% to 14% while teacher training will receive 1%.
(iii) Decentralized development plans will be prepared and implemented by at least 7 of the 9 regions
for the 2003-04 school year, with the necessary financial and human resources.
(iv) The portion of the Ministry's non-salary budget administered by the "Academies" will increase to
40% by the year 2004.
The govermment of Mali is convinced that implementation of the Ten-Year Education Development
Program will allow all of its students to attend school, thus improving the human resource capacity
necessary for developing the country.
- 106 -



It is our belief that by helping to implement this letter of sectoral policy, your institution will contribute to
the development of our education system, and to the happiness of our children. With my very best wishes,
The Minister of Education
Moustapha DICKO
- 107-






MAP SECTION






~~~I        I **v'-.If  ___ 
2  loo 8O .MAIJ                                   '     L*"             4   , o.    ;         0 x
MAUIiJ_  HS                                                                         t      u->'-    x,
EDUCATION SECTOR                           jA L G E R I A
EXPENDITURE PROGRAM                                                                                                      N
-20O              REGIONAL DIFFERENCES-1 996/97                i                                                                                    *                    20-
Gross Enrollment Ratio by Region and by Sex      j                                                                       K                   i
BOYS        Ali             G* R                                                                                                   2
]  ii;t   i                     t                                              >                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~33.2= 20.3%  --V-'
sox 75% wo=  100% 75% so  50S       r-i;;_                                                                        + o;i  
Sourae Mi;y ofE ion, Mai.4oI.                   ,               T  .    a                                               OI-dc 
-180                                                             1                                                                                           ; z. . >-12      180-
0   SEED CITES AND TOWYNS
OREGION CAPITALS                                                    *    5
33.7% 24.2%
NATION7   CAPITAL                         B|um , 
-MsM,RroEDucATIONREGIONS                           I                                                          /          GAO               K        1
-160
..                       MAURITA A                                                                                       lMAUYITANIA                      
-A-t g   - -g - -                               - -                                                                        NIGEI
-                                                         |   |   |   I   I          I    MAUdlIAMA   |             l          . _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IG     
S. ~ ~ ~~~~~'S-
Z                                                                        UB   U   R K   I NIG                                                     ER
i      io  Lop 0000 pr I     by e M Deg   f A he W ek                       A'LERiA
0                                                       MAURITANImf,o otw    MAIO/BKNASO-.
12'                                                                                                                                         m A L I~~~8~  ~   0GopayooooIM0tooyooyGIE  ~ELN.NIEA 
CAPI  ARE                                                                     0     A5 0  eeme 100   15ceo0nhbonMres  --'00.0A..250-     ~
O F.1     A K O                                                                                                         __ ___I__     __I_  __I_   ___I___I_



