Report No. PID2864
Project Name                     Mali-Education Sector Expenditure (@)
Program
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Education Adjustment
Project ID                       MLPE40650
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
B.P. 71, Bamako Mali
Contact Person: Barthelemy Togo,
Program Coordinator
Tel: 223 29 1965
Fax: 223 29 1965
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                July 5, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         July 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 26, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Mali has begun moving beyond the period of massive disruption in regular
school activities, when programs and institutions deteriorated or simply
halted their operations. The Government aims to energize communities by
helping them to organize and coordinate their efforts in establishing
schools and improving education services. In this changing environment,
the Government proposes the following strategies to deal with the major
issues of the sector.(a) Low quality of primary and secondary education.
The need to improve internal inefficiency is apparent in high repetition
and dropout rates and low completion rates. Only . A of students who
enter the first grade successfully complete the six grades of lower
primary, and about .. of the cohort complete grade 6 without repeating.
Students who manage to stay in school are not learning enough because
inadequate bare facilities do not create a classroom environment conducive
to learning, and multiple shifts reduce learning time.    About 55t and 66t
of students pass the grade 6 and grade 9 examinations, respectively. The
number of learning hours per pupil per year is lower than the modest 780
hours recommended by UNESCO. The issues related to low quality are
discussed below, along with proposed strategies :(i) High dropout and
repetition rates lead to a wastage amounting to 25t of the recurrent
budget: Several initiatives have been developed, including a switch to
use of national languages in the lower levels of schooling, and
implementation of an after-hours tutoring program. New government
directives mandating lower repetition rates will be discussed during the
appraisal mission.(ii) Textbooks and learning materials are provided in
insufficient quantities and are of insufficient quality: Textbooks will
be made available essentially free of charge to all primary school
students (Grades 1-9). Editing, publishing and distribution will be
privatized. Schools will receive a budget for book purchases.(iii)
Scholarships for secondary and higher education students represent a



disproportionate share of expenditures, leading to an increasing
misallocation of scarce resources. The process is not
transparent:Government proposes to phase out secondary scholarships over
the next three years and to replace them with a budget available to
secondary schools for purchasing quality-enhancing inputs. For higher
education, the budget for scholarships would be reduced with savings to go
for quality-enhancing inputs and student services. (iv) Pre-service
teacher training facilities have been unable to provide sufficient numbers
of trained teachers; in-service training is delivered sporadically, with
limited relevance or impact: Government proposes to greatly increase the
number of pre-service training schools, and to provide in-service training
through the cercle-level CAPs. The intake level of teacher candidates
will be increased to Grade 12 from Grade 9.(v) The sector is frequently
disrupted by student or teacher strikes: A communications strategy for
discussing this program with the teacher and student unions has been
prepared.(vi) Poor reading skills depress overall learning levels
throughout the entire education system: The program provides a focus on
the teaching and learning of reading skills, with explicit targets for
achieving reading mastery.(vii) The curriculum is inadequate to meet
students' needs and is generally of only minimal relevance: Several
curriculum reform initiatives are underway through the LIL. In addition,
specific programs will seek to improve Medersa school curricula and to
bring the community school programs into harmony with those of official
programs, taking the best from each as appropriate.(viii) Centralized
control over resources has resulted in inadequate supplies and pedagogic
support to the classroom and hinders involvement and ownership by local
education providers and communities: Various decentralization initiatives
are planned.(b) Limited and inequitable access to primary and secondary
education. Enormous disparities in enrollments exist between different
regions and between rural and urban centers. Gender dispartities
persist. Part of the reason for low access is the simple lack of
availability of schools in rural areas. Lack of demand for education is
also a factor, and can be expected to be increasingly important as the
system attempts to reach out to more marginalized groups. The gross
primary enrollment rate in Bamako is three times higher than in rural
areas. There are several issues related to equitable access: (i) Teacher
financing is inequitable, inefficient, and unsustainable, with parents
taking greater responsibility for paying teachers in rural areas: There
are at least four different modes of teacher payment (civil service,
community-financed, government service volunteers, and annual contracts).
In rural areas, it is difficult to assign and retain teachers:Teacher
financing reform has been agreed, with all new hires to be on a
decentralized, contract basis. Community school teachers would receive a
base salary from government to relieve the pressure on communities and
increase equity and sustainability.(ii) Construction costs remain high,
and there are insufficient numbers of classrooms: Maintenance is poor.
World Education appears able to work with communities to build at an
astonishing 15-20% of the cost of traditional construction--between
500,000 and 1,000,000 CFA francs per classroom. Low-cost construction
techniques will be tested on a pilot basis. To increase girls' access,
schools will be built near the villages and adequate sanitary facilities
will be provided. (iii) With the exception of community schools and
Medersa schools, private education remains under-developed as compared to
most other countries in the region: Government will provide increased
support to be determined for development of private education.(iv) Girls
-2 -



are less likely to attend and finish school than boys; the problem is
particularly acute in rural areas and among the poorest families: A range
of gender initiatives are proposed (see relevant write-ups in Annex
2).(v)  Students with special needs are largely left out of the system:    A
sub-component to the ESEP is proposed with support for mainstreaming
special needs students.(vi) The internal efficiency of post-secondary
institutions is extremely low; relatively few students complete their
academic programs each year, and few women enroll in these institutions:
Support for higher education will be completely revisited under the
program, with construction of a central library, support for science
education and research.(c) Low institutional capacity for education system
management. The historically centralized management of education is no
longer capable of efficiently delivering education to the whole country.
The Government is therefore decentralizing functions and has made capacity
building in strategic planning and management at all levels a national
priority. Towards this end, the Ministry of Education has, over the past
years, focused on preparing an overall institution building program.
There are five main issues related to ME's institutional capacity:(i)
There is no clear government strategy for dealing with the many
co-existing modes of delivery of public and private primary schooling
(Medersa schools, community schools, other private schools, pedagogie
convergente schools). In many cases, communities can no longer finance
teacher salaries: This is an issue that needs coherence amongst donors
since many of them have been instrumental in setting up these schools.
Government will assure base financing for community school teachers. It
will work in collaboration with the teachers and NGOs to develop clear
strategies and support. (ii) ME's organizational structure and management
system is weak. The central ME departments, regional and local
authorities, schools and communities are not yet ready to assume new
responsibilities. Roles and job descriptions are not clearly defined,
management skills are weak:A training and reorganization strategy will be
developed as part of the mandate of the decentralization unit.(iii) ME's
decentralization strategy is costly and provides inadequate support at the
regional and local levels:A unit will be created immediately with the
mandate to develop a financeable decentralization strategy over the next
two years or so.(iv) The system of financial management is out of date:
ME staff, especially those at the regional and local levels, need training
in program budgeting, accounting, management, computerized information
systems, and procurement:A financial management system is being developed,
along with a training program.(v) ME does not have an adequate system of
monitoring and evaluation to track the progress of its massive effort to
improve education, particularly at the secondary level: The new
monitoring and evaluation system will address these issues.
2. Objectives
The overall objective of the Mali Education Sector Expenditure Program
(ESEP) is to provide increased and equitable access to higher quality
education. Specific goals are to: (a) increase gross primary enrollment
from about 50% to 95% by 2009-10, of which 50% would be girls; (b)
increase the quality of teaching and learning; and (c) improve
decentralized management of the education sector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
During program preparation, the Bank has been instrumental in three main
areas: (a) technical advice on education, financing and management issues,
- 3-



(b) strategic advice for mobilizing donor support and facilitating
consensus, and (c) providing a predictable and flexible source of funds to
ensure that the core program will be financed while other donors firm up
their contributions. The Bank has also produced background documents to
support the ME's analysis of constraints and alternative solutions
(including cost-benefit and effectiveness analyses, and an education
sector expenditure review). The team working for the Bank on Mali
education issues represents a range of technical and disciplinary
backgrounds and has been associated with successful implementation of
education reform in the region, including teacher financing, textbook
rental and use, curriculum enrichment and school improvement initiatives,
low-cost primary school construction, gender equity, adult literacy, and
school health, etc.During program implementation, the Bank will fund key
elements of the core program and will provide technical advice in program
implementation.
4. Description
1. Quality of Education
2. Access to Education
3. Decentralized management
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                       0
IBRD
IDA                              25
FONDS D'AIDE ET DE COOPERATION    0
GOV. OF THE NETHERLANDS (EXCEPT
FOR MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.)        0
Total Project Cost               25
6. Implementation
The Program will be implemented by the Ministry of Education.
Decision-making responsibility for budgets and annual action plans will be
assumed. Oversight Responsibility. The primary responsibility for
providing overall guidance about the scope and direction of the project
will rest with a Steering Committee called the "Comite d'orientation et de
suivi" . The Steering Committee is chaired by the Secretary General of ME
and comprises the Directors of the ME technical departments, the Cellule
Technique for PRODEC, the Project Coordinator, and a representative from
the National Parents' Association of Mali. The Steering Committee will
ensure that the project activities are consistent with Government's
overall policy objectives in the education sector. It will have primary
responsibility for overseeing project performance and progress, reviewing
and approving annual work programs and budgets, including management
reports prepared by the Project Coordination Unit, approving school
improvement projects submitted by communities, assessing the impact of
activities on the basis of project performance indicators, and for
providing guidance about the overall scope and direction of the project.
The Steering Committee will be the primary mechanism for ensuring that the
interests of key stakeholders, particularly those at the regional level,
are adequately addressed during project implementation. It is envisaged
that the Steering Committee will meet on a quarterly basis, or at other
times as needed.Program Co-ordination Management. The PRODEC Cellule
- 4 -



Technique of the ME has been established to ensure the overall
coordination. It will be responsible for coordinating actions of donors,
private and public partners at the regional and central levels; assist
component managers in the implementation; build capacity at the regional
levels to prepare annual budgets and operational plans; ensure that
operating plans and budgets are implemented in accordance with commitments
made to donors; prepare and submit to partners, donors and steering
committee progress reports and ensure that audit reports are prepared and
recommendations are implemented; prepare Steering committee meetings and
annual review meetings. The Cellule Technique along with the CPS and IPN
will play a central role in monitoring performance indicators for the
quality of sub-components. Assessing learning outcomes will become
increasingly important as a means to push for greater accountability.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. Under the
program, the function of the DAF is being significantly altered and
expanded to allow the ME to monitor the resources and expenditures of the
entire sector. The coordinating units of on-going projects (VET and
AAA-LIL) will be dissolved and their staff will be absorbed into the DAGE
or CPS.   The computerized financial   management system used under the
AAA-LIL project will be extended and refined to reflect the new ways of
preparing regional operational plans and budgets.     Financial management
systems will be introduced in high schools and at the University in order
to adequately manage delegated resources in a responsible way.General
responsibilities of DAF. The DAF will be responsible for ensuring that
there is adequate financial management at the IEF and at the school level;
coordinating the preparation of the education budget, monitoring budget
implementation; coordinating the execution of the investment budget;
maintaining Ministry of Education accounts for all expenditures made at
the regional level, preparing financial reports and statements. As well,
the DAF will be responsible for ensuring proper functioning of special
accounts and the Project account; executing expenditure from advance
accounts; overseeing expenditures made on the authority of ME by IEF and
DRE and made by autonomous agencies such as high schools and universities;
overseeing the management of construction contracts; ensuring that all
partners adhere to the Manuel of Accounting and Financial Procedures;
ensuring that audits are prepared; preparing a quarterly Program
Management Report by component and category of expenditures; verifying its
consistency wit the initial financial framework for the PRODEC and
identifying gaps and proposing remedies.Management of school
construction.   The main responsibilities in school construction are the
design, management of the construction and the construction. At the ME
the capacity in design and in management of construction is quite weak.
During pre-appraisal a detailed technical note was prepared with the
government and decisions need to be made defining the roles and
responsibilities of the ME vis-a-vis AGETIPE, the private sector and
NGOS. It is anticipated that by the second phase, the management of
contracts and construction will be given to local governments.Monitoring
and evaluation.   ME will monitor and evaluate the program on the basis of
detailed terms of references for each key unit. Once the institutional
assessment is completed, the various units will have a clearer idea of
what information they will need to gather in order to monitor
performance. Various initiatives such as ECD, teacher training and
curriculum changes will require regular and specific school and student
evaluations and analyses to be carried out, as well as using financial
data to undertake cost-effective analysis. The IPN, DRE , IEF and CPS
- 5 -



will be very involved in these activities. Given that there is limited
information on secondary education, an important activity will be setting
up and collecting school base data as well as establishing student
evaluation capacity.    The new financial management system will provide
detailed cost and financial information which will allow for closer
evaluation of financial implications of new policies and activities.A
program implementation report will be carried out for the mid-term review
and a completion report will be prepared within 6 months after the closing
date of the IDA credit. Various studies will be carried out during the
program to evaluate or test specific aspects of education (demand side
issues, cost-effectiveness of secondary school options). These will be
identified during appraisal.    Independent consultants will be hired to
conduct technical audits of the program, to asses quality of
implementation and make recommendations on ways to improve strategies
related to technical issues. The capacity developed for student evaluation
and comparative analysis of different school systems will be integrated
into the sector.Manual of procedures A manual of procedures was prepared
for the education LIL in the context of the Government's sector strategy.
This manual will be expanded to reflect the entire sector as well as the
institutional assessment results. A draft of the expanded manual should
be available before appraisal. The terms of reference for the manual have
been vetted by the donors participating in the sector program and the
first draft will be discussed with donors, NGOs and other partners during
appraisal.
7. Sustainability
The program design puts a premium on both pedagogical and financial
sustainability. On the pedagogical side, teacher training institutions
will be supported to ensure that teaching practices learned in the
training institution endure when confronted with classroom realities.
Curriculum and teaching reforms will concentrate on helping students learn
to read. The greater involvement of the private sector in textbook
development should lead to a more sustainable publishing industry in Mali,
and greater availability of textbooks and reading books over the medium
and long term. A textbook distribution system will be put in place to
ensure that textbook stocks are maintained. The conversion of individual
scholarships into quality-enhancing inputs should provide sustainable
financing for these initiatives.On the financial side, the reduction in
costs for teacher salaries make possible the expansion of the system in a
sustainable fashion. A range of measures for primary and secondary
education, including reduced repetition and increased teaching hours, will
increase cost-effectiveness and improve sustainability. The involvement
of beneficiaries in the financing of education at the post-primary will
require greater accountability of government to improving the quality and
cost-effectiveness of education services, thereby contributing to the
sustainability of the ESEP objectives.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Mali Education Sector Expenditure Program will be benefiting from key
lessons learned in previous projects such as the Education Sector
Consolidation Project and the Education Sector Adjustment Credit. The
following lessons are drawn from the ICRs of these projects, and other
sources. (a) Politically difficult education reform programs which are
not supported by sufficient financing and IEC are unlikely to succeed as
the short-term costs appear greater than the short-term benefits.(b ) To
- 6 -



be an effective partner, IDA staff should increase their understanding of
the socio-political consequences of education reform, and be more
attentive to borrower efforts to explain and prepare for these
consequences. Furthermore, IDA needs to improve its ability to explain
and present the rationale behind education reform programs in terms which
are understandable by key actors in the education sector (teachers,
students, journalists, etc.), and by civil society at large.(c) Without
effective controls on student flows to public secondary and higher
education, and on scholarship expenditures, it is difficult, if not
impossible, to sufficiently develop primary education in situations of
budgetary austerity.(d) Up-front and on-going participation of all major
stakeholders in the design of reforms is essential. Public discussion and
debate and carefully developed information campaigns must be organized,
pre-tested and conducted prior to and during the implementation of
reforms.(e) The Government must develop a comprehensive and coherent
strategy for the sector that provides the basis for all donor
intervention. This strategy must reflect consensus among the various
stakeholders in the sector.(f) If teaching and learning are to improve,
the school must be the locus of change. Previous projects did not pay
enough attention to the importance of empowering teachers and school
directors. The current program design will draw lessons from regional
experiences such as the successful PPSE program in Guinea. It seeks to
redefine the roles of the inspectorate and the in-service training centers
in order to enable them to respond to teacher-driven initiatives, and to
prepare the way for decentralization of school improvement and budget
management initiatives.(g) Teacher financing. The main constraint on
developing the education sector is recurrent financing for teacher
salaries, not investment financing for classroom construction and
educational materials. Under this program the government is shifting from
a centrally-managed teaching force to one that is locally managed. All
new teachers will be recruited on a contract-based hiring system at all
levels. (h) National languages: The research demonstrates clearly that
children acquire basic literacy and comprehension skills more easily when
classes are taught in their own language, particularly in a context where
family and community do not speak the second language. This also
facilitates second-language acquisition and community involvement with the
life of the school. The program will include a pilot experiment with a
bilingual education curriculum that is designed to be taken to scale in
the second phase of the PRODEC.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  A specialist in environmental assessment will take
part in the appraisal mission. Initial analysis suggests that
environmental issues will be limited to three areas: classroom
construction, provision of latrines, and provision of wells.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Robert S. Prouty
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
-7-



12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 14, 2000.
- 8 -



