                  Document of
               The World Bank


                                         Report No:73342-AZ




            RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                    ON A

      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                     OF
       HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT (APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON JUNE 5, 2006)


                     TO
         THE REPUBLIC OF AZERBAIJAN


               OCTOBER 18, 2012
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DO     Development Objective
HSRP   Health Sector Reform Project
IDA    International Development Association
PIU    Project Implementation Unit




             Regional Vice President:        Philippe Le Houerou
                    Country Director:        Henry G. Kerali
            Sector Manager / Director:       Daniel Dulitzky
                   Task Team Leader:         Claudia Rokx
                                         2
                 AZERBAIJAN — HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
                                   P094220


                                   Extension of Closing Date


1. This Restructuring Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director for a six-month
   extension for the Azerbaijan Health Sector Reform Project (P094220-Cr.4210AZ) from
   December 31, 2012 to July 1, 2013. The closing date extension was requested by the
   Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan by letter dated October 2, 2012. The
   extension is required to complete the construction and equipment of facilities and
   installation of the information technology system as well as finalize the training of
   medical specialists.

2. This is the first extension of the Project. The IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 34.3
   million (US$50.0 million equivalent) was approved by the World Bank for the
   Azerbaijan Health Sector Reform Project on June 29, 2006.

3. As noted above, the additional six-month extension of the project closing date is needed
   to complete the construction of two primary health care facilities in Sheki and Gakh
   regions, the renovation of the premises of sanitary epidemiology centers, continue the
   development of the successfully implemented information technology system in the
   health care system as well as the finalization of the development of medical education
   and the training for medical specialists. Construction has started and is expected to be
   completed by the proposed closing date of July 1, 2013. Procurement and delivery of
   equipment for the facilities will require additional time for completion.

4. The main reason for the delay in finalizing the project within the originally estimated
   timeframe is the slow start of the project due to management issues in the early years of
   project implementation. Disbursements picked up considerably after an initial slow start
   and in particular after a management change in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
   and improved relation between the PIU and the Ministry of Health (MoH). At present,
   more than 80 percent of the funds have been disbursed, about 10 percent is committed
   and the revised procurement plan, attached to the extension request, shows that all
   activities will be finalized by the proposed closing date.

5. Due to the slow start, the Project's Development Objective (DO) is currently rated
   Moderately Satisfactory. However because of the improvements in the implementation of
   Project’s activities and the level of disbursement over the past two years, Implementation
   Progress (IP) is rated Satisfactory.

6.




                                               3
7. The six-month extension of the closing date, would enable the completion of all
   remaining activities, help ensure disbursement of remaining funds, and allow for
   successful achievement of key activities that will contribute to the DO. It would also
   help to ensure sustainability of the investments completed so far.

8. The requirements of OP/BP 13.30 have been met, namely, (a) the project objectives are
   largely achievable; (b) the performance of the Borrower and other project implementing
   agencies is satisfactory; and (c) the Borrower has prepared a specific Action Plan
   acceptable to the Bank for completion of the project within the proposed requested
   extended timeframe, i.e. July 1, 2013.

9. The Project's Financial Management is currently rated Satisfactory, reflecting overall
   appropriate financial management arrangements and adoption of all previous
   recommendations for further system strengthening. There are no outstanding audit
   reports for the Project and the last one presented an unqualified opinion.




                                             4
