OFFICIAL               w4o,11                  tA          *
DOCUMENTS                 6
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.       (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPME,           334       Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
October 15, 2013
His Excellence
Mr. Samir Sharifov
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku, AZ 1022
Republic of Azerbaijan
Excellency:
Re: Republic of Azerbaijan
Selected Loans/Credits/Grants Listed in Annex I
Amendment of Additional Instructions: Disbursement
We refer to the individual letters titled Additional Instructions: Disbursement
("Disbursement Letters") for the Loans/Credits/Grants extended to Republic of Azerbaijan
("Borrower"/"Recipient") listed in Annex I of this letter ("Amendment Letter"). We would like
to inform you that each of the said Disbursement Letters is hereby amended to include the
following additional instructions:
Section II, Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds, of each Disbursement Letter referred to
above is amended to include two new subsections (iii) and (iv) which shall read as follows:
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The Bank may permit the Borrower/Recipient to
electronically deliver to the Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the Bank's
Client Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the Bank by
electronic means may be effected if: (a) the Borrower/Recipient has designated in writing,
pursuant to the terms of subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign
and deliver Applications and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the Bank
for the purpose of delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials
designated by the Borrower/Recipient have registered as users of Client Connection. If the Bank
agrees, the Bank will provide the Borrower/Recipient with SIDC for the designated officials.
Following which, the designated officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing
Form 2380, which is accessible through Client Connection
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). The Borrower/Recipient may continue to exercise the
option of preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The Bank reserves the right and
may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the electronic delivery of
Applications by the Borrower/Recipient.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Withdrawal Applications. By
designating officials to use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Withdrawal Applications
electronically, the Borrower/Recipient confirms through the authorized signatory letter its


﻿agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting
Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials") provided
in Annex II of this Amendment; and (b) to cause such official to abide by those terms and
conditions.
All remaining subsections of Section II of the Disbursement Letters are renumbered
accordingly. All other provisions of said Disbursement Letters remain in full force and effect.
The above-mentioned amendments to the Disbursement Letters shall become effective as of the
date of this Amendment Letter.
For the purpose of designating existing authorized signatories to accept SIDC and to sign
and deliver Applications electronically, please furnish to the World Bank a revised Authorized
Signatory Letter, in the format provided in Annex III, for the Loans/Credits/Grants listed in
Annex I of this Amendment Letter. Upon receipt by the World Bank of the revised Authorized
Signatory Letter, the World Bank will register as users of Client Connection all persons who are
authorized by the Borrower/Recipient to sign Applications for the Loans/Credits/Grants set forth
in Annex I, and will provide those persons with SIDC. If the Borrower/Recipient would like to
change the persons authorized to sign Applications for any of the Loans/Credits/Grants
concerned, please submit a revised Authorized Signatory Letter, in the format provided in Annex
IV, for each relevant Loan/Credit/Grant.
Regards,
Joseph P. Formoso
Senior Finance Officer
Loan Department
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


﻿Prepared by: Jasna Mestnik - CTRLA
Cleared with and cc: Rocio M. Malpica - LEGLE, Joseph P. Formoso - CTRLA
Cc with copies: Amelioration and Irrigation Open Joint Stock Company (AIOJSC)
Azerbaijan Railways Closed Joint Stock Company
Azerroadservice Open Joint-Stock Company
Azersu Joint Stock Company
Central Bank of the Republic of Azerbaijan
Ministry of Communications and Information Technologies of the
Republic of Azerbaijan
Ministry of Health
Ministry of Justice
SAWMC Open Joint Stock Company of Republic of Azerbaijan
State Agency on Agricultural Credits (SAAC)
State Amelioration and Water Management Agency of Nakhchivan
Autonomous Republic (SAWMA)
State Committee for Securities
State Committee for the Management of State Property
Social Fund for Development of IDPs (SFDI)
State Land and Cartography Committee
State Service for the Registration of Real Estate


﻿Annex I
Loan/CreditlGrant
Financier     Number                     Description
IDA       42100-001        Health Sector Reform Project
IBRD      74350-001        Real Estate Registration Project
IBRD      74600-001        National Water Supply and Sanitation Project
Second National Water Supply and Sanitation
IBRD      75180-001        Project
Second National Water Supply and Sanitation
IDA       43970-001        Project
Corporate and Public Sector Accountability
IDA       44050-001        Project
Corporate and Public Sector Accountability
TF        57849-001        Project
IDA       44180-001        Social Protection Development Project
Additional Financing for Second Highway
IBRD      75160-001        Project
Absheron Rehabilitation Program 11 Solid
IBRD      75490-001        Waste Management Project
Second Additional Financing for the Second
IDA       46150-001        Highway Project
IBRD      75090-001        Rail Trade and Transport Facilitation Project
IBRD      78890-001        Third Highway Project
IDA       47230-001        Third Highway Project
Quality Management in the Road Sector
TF        96927-001        Project
TF        98323-001        Supreme Audit Institution Development Project
IBRD      80240-001        Capital Markets Modernization Project
Water Users Association Development Support
IBRD      80390-001        Project
Water Users Association Development Support
IDA       49130-001        Project
IBRD      80960-001        IDP Living Standards and Livelihoods Project
Additional Financing for the Judicial
IBRD      80680-001        Modernization Project
Additional Financing for the Judicial
IDA       49610-001        Modernization Project
SECO Grant for Financial Sector
TF        11975-001        Modernization Project
IBRD      81890-001        Second Rural Investment Project


﻿Annex II
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)' will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under
the Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting
documentation together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the
Bank electronically, on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token).
The Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1.    The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter
(ASL) duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to
deliver Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL
(Signatory), as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if
a Signatory is no longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.    Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on
CC will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The
Signatory shall not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC
Password in written or other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be
assigned a unique identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having
read, understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
'"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the
recipient of a grant.


﻿2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register
his/her Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Where a Soft Token is to be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account
name and CC Password and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in
connection with the use of his/her Soft Token, after which the Soft Token will be
initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications.
Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a "SIDC User". The Bank will
maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC User for purposes of
managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the SIDC User will
have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC
User has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC
User in the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and
Conditions. Any other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse. of the SIDC
by the SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC)
that each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use,
including without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectiongworldbank.org.


﻿4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at
clientconnectiongworldbank.org of any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take
other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC are disabled immediately.
5.    Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to
use a SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently
disable a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.    Care of Physical Tokens
6.1. Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2. The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3. Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to
extreme temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than
five (5) cm from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile
phones, phone-enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens
should be carried and stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5
cm), these devices can output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper
operation of electronic equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4. Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1. Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical
Tokens will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical
Token in the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


﻿Annex III
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku, AZ 1022, Republic of Azerbaijan
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: Supplementary Authorization Letter for Electronic Disbursement Request
I refer to the Amendment Letter dated            ("Amendment Letter"), amending
the letter titled Additional Instructions: Disbursement ("Disbursement Letter") for the
Loans/Credits/Grants extended to Republic of Azerbaijan ("Borrower"/" Recipient") listed in
Annex I of the Amendment Letter, providing additional instructions for the electronic signing
and delivery of applications for withdrawal and/or for special commitment ("Applications"). I
also refer to the Authorized Signatory Letters submitted to the World Bank in respect of each of
the Loans/Credits/Grants listed in said Annex I, authorizing designated persons to sign, on
behalf of the Borrower/Recipient, Applications under each said Loan/Credit/Grant.
For the purpose of delivering an Application to the World Bank, [each] [any two/three]
of the persons whose authenticated specimen signatures appears in the Authorized Signatory
Letter for each said Loan/Credit/Grant as referred to above is authorized on behalf of the
Borrower/Recipient, acting [individually] [jointly], to deliver Applications for withdrawal under
the respective Loan/Credit/Grant, and evidence in support thereof, including by electronic
means, on the terms and conditions specified by the World Bank (including the Terms and
Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to
Process Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC"),
which have been provided by the Borrower/Recipient to such person(s)).
This Authorization supplements each current Authorized Signatory Letter in the World
Bank records with respect to the Loans/Credits/Grants listed in Annex I of the Amendment
Letter.
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Annex IV
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
83 Samed Vurgun Street
Baku, AZ 1022, Republic of Azerbaijan
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: Loan No.      -    (                Project)
I refer to the Loan Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and Republic of Azerbaijan (the "Borrower"),
dated           , providing the above Loan. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General
Conditions as defined in the Agreement, any 3[one] of the persons whose authenticated
specimen signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower to sign applications
for withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment] under this Loan.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Bank, 4[each] of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower,
acting 5[individually] 6[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the
terms and conditions specified by the Bank.
7[This confirms that the Borrower is authorizing such persons to accept Secure
Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting documents to
Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
4 Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
6 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
Instruction to the Borrower: Add this paragraph if the Borrower wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Secure Identification Credentials and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please
delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.


﻿the Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that the Bank shall rely upon such
representations and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and
warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in
connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation
("Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC"), the Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank
that it will cause such persons to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


