Document of                                pY
The World Bank                   FILt EW
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3018-PA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 7, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                    0 126
e 1.00                     US$0.008
¢ 1,000                    US$7.94
0 1,000,000                US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THIS REPORT
FC     -  Livestock Fund
IDB    -  Inter-American Development Bank
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID - United States Agency for International Development
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =     10,000 m2 =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                 =     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         =     0.39 square miles  =  100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                  =     2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)                      =     0.26 gallons
1,000 kg  =  1 metric ton        =     0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Government of Paraguay
Beneficiaries:       Government would on-lend the Bank's loan proceeds
to the Livestock Fund (FG), which, in turn, would
make subloans to some 1,800 farmers, ranchers and
cooperatives.
Loan Amount:         US$30 million equivalent.
Loan Terms:          Seventeen years, including four years of grace,
at 9.60% per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Government would assume the foreign exchange
risk and on-lend the Loan proceeds at an interest
0.5% above the Bank lending rate.
Project
Description:      The project would consist of a countrywide agricul-
tural credit and technical assistance program aimed
at increasing production of livestock (beef, dairy,
swine and poultry) in general and at increasing the
production of agricultural crops, mainly soybeans and
cotton, produced under a mixed crop/livestock farming
operation carried out by small-scale farmers. A
possible risk is an unexpected deterioration of beef
prices that could deter ranchers from seeking credit
at the levels assumed under the project. In the case
of the small-scale farmers, the project's expected
benefits would depend on FG's ability to provide the
technical assistance required for the intensive farming
system considered under the project, thereby substantially
increasing lending for small farmers as envisioned under
the project.
Estimated Costs:
Type of Investment         Local       Foreign     Total
-----------US$ million------
Small-size Farms           9.5         10.5        20.0
Medium-size Farms          8.9          8.2         17.1
Large-size Ranches         6.3          5.9         12.2
Price Contingency          5.3          5.4         10.7
Total                30.0 1/     30.0         60.0 1/
1/   Including US$6.0 million in taxes and duties.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
…-- (US$ million) -------
Bank                    -          30.0       30.0
Sub-borrowers        11.5             -       11.5
Livestock Fund       18.5             -       18.5
Total            30.0         30.0        60.0
Estimated
Disbursements:    Bank FY          1982      1983       1984      1985
…_________ …US$ million) ---------
Annual           10        12          6         2
Cumulative       -         22         28        30
Economic Rate of
Return:            32%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Livestock Development Project Report, No. 3311-PA,
dated April 7, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to assist in
financing the Livestock Development Project. The Loan would have a term of
17 years including 4 years of grace, with an interest rate of 9.60%. The
proceeds of the Loan would be relent to the Livestock Fund (FG) on the same
terms as the Bank loan to the Government, except that the interest rate would
be 0.5% above the Bank's rate and the Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. The OPEC Fund for International Developent is expected to
provide a loan of about US$10.0 million; when such loan is formally granted,
the proposed Bank Loan would be reduced commensurately.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Paraguay in November 1980 and the up-
dating economic report, covering short- and medium-term developments, will be
distributed to the Executive Directors shortly. The following discussion
is based on the findings of this mission. The last economic report "Economic
Memorandum on Paraguay" (2461-PA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
in May 1979.
Economic Performance
3.        Paraguay is endowed with vast areas of unutilized lands well-suited
for agriculture or livestock, and has substantial hydroelectric potential.
Despite these natural resources, progress has been held back by weak public
institutions in the development area, remoteness from foreign markets,
scattered population, and a weak transport network. For many decades, per
capita income and employment grew slowly and emigration served as an outlet
for unemployed and underemployed manpower. More recently, however, the
economy has been growing rapidly and many Paraguayans who had emigrated to
neighboring countries have returned, responding to the expanded employment
opportunities associated with the construction of the Itaipu dam. Furthermore,
the expansion of the agricultural frontier has encouraged the immigration of
farmers from abroad. Nevertheless, the country's population density remains
very low in relation to agricultural land (2.8 ha of cultivable land per capita).
4.        The economic potential of the country began to be more fully realized
during the 1970's. WTith the rapid expansion of land under cultivation, and
the beginning of the exploitation of the enormous hydroelectric potential
of the Parana River along the country's border with Brazil and Argentina,
Paraguay's economy is now in the midst of a rapid transformation. A rise in
external demand and favorable prices were instrumental in accelerating agri-
cultural growth, while exploitation of the country's hydropower potential has



- 2 -
been made possible by treaties signed with Brazil and Argentina to form two
binational authorities for the construction and operation of two hydroelectric
plants, with a third in the planning stage, aggregating at least 17,000 MW.
Construction of the Itaipu dam with Brazil, the largest ever built, is on
schedule, and the Yacyreta dam with Argentina, supported by Bank financing,
is about to begin. In the agricultural sector after an exceptional performance
in 1977, a drought in 1978 affected production of soybeans, and in 1979
floodings led to low cotton yields. Preliminary results for 1980, indicate
a recovery with an expected sector growth rate close to 9%. Expenditures
related to the construction of the Itaipu hydroelectric project, which during
the last three years (1977-79), on the Paraguayan side, averaged US$200 million
equivalent to 30% of domestic investment have, in turn, stimulated the construc-
tion (31% average annual growth over 1977-79) and services sectors (12% average
yearly growth over 1977-79). As a result the Paraguayan economy has maintained
a growth rate of over 10% during the last three years.
5.        The effective supply response of Paraguayan agriculture has been
assisted by improvements in transport and implementation of a set of programs
designed to increase and diversify agricultural exports. The agricultural
growth of recent years has brought about an improvement in the real incomes of
the rural population, which comprises about three-fifths of the total. A
significant share of production of cotton, and soybeans, which account for
most of the recent expansion, is grown by small farmers many of whom have
received land under Government and privately sponsored colonization programs.
Moreover, rural wages have recently increased sharply in some areas where
demand for agricultural labor has exceeded supply. Thus, the benefits of
agricultural progress have been fairly widely shared. Per capita income grew
at 5.3% per annum during 1972-79 compared to the 1.2% averaged during the
previous 30 years. Growth in per capita incomes has been accompanied by other
improvements in the standard of living, as life expectancy and literacy have
increased, and child mortality has declined. Nutritional levels are comparable
to those found in countries with higher per capita incomes. Furthermore, in
recent years, the Government has started to carry out a series of programs
aimed at extending social and other back-up services, financial support, and
technical assistance to existing and new land settlements. These programs
should help in spreading the benefits of growth even more effectively among
the poorer segments of the population.
6.        The high level of aggregate demand has affected the relative price
stability that long characterized the economy. The rapid increase in the money
supply generated by the large capital inflows associated with construction of
the Itaipu dam and the buoyant domestic demand had resulted in the average
inflation rate increasing moderately from 5% in 1976 to 10.6% in 1978. In
1979, however, inflation accelerated to 28.2%.  Contributing to this result
were the increases in oil prices, delayed readjustments in some prices such as
urban transport tariffs, unfavorable weather that affected food crops, increases
in beef prices (which weigh heavily in the price index) and the inflationary
situation in neighboring Brazil and Argentina. The acceleration of inflation
has occurred in spite of contractionary fiscal policies, whose impact was
limited by the relatively small role of the Government in the economy. In
view of these developments, in late 1979 and early 1980, the authorities
adopted several measures to strengthen and improve the functioning of the



- 3 -
financial system. Both, active and passive interest rate ceilings were
raised, reserve requirements for non-banking financial intermediaries were
established, minimum capital requirements for banks and other financial inter-
mediaries were raised, and other measures to restrict credit expansion were
imposed. Inflationary pressures receded considerably in 1980 when the
average rate was 22.4% (the CPI index measured from December to December went
from 35.7% in 1979 to 8.9% in 1980). Main contributing factors to this
slowdown appear to have been the cautious monetary policy, stabilization of
food prices related to favorable climatic conditions, reduced beef exports and
a reduced sale of construction services, and lower prices on goods imported
from neighboring countries.
7.        Fiscal-policy has been characterized by a strict control of expendi-
tures and revenue increases in line with GDP growth through 1979, resulting
in an improvement of the savings position of the Central Government (the
current account surplus increased from 2.8% of GDP in 1977 to 3.4% in 1979).
Capital expenditures, which in 1977-79 averaged only about 2.7% of GDP
reflecting the limited execution capacity of the agencies that have been
unable to fully utilize budgetary appropriations, have permitted the Central
Government to maintain an overall surplus, which increased from 0.2% of GDP
in 1977 to 0.6% in 1979. However, growing demand for services stemming from
increases in current and capital expenditures, coupled with revenues which
have not grown in real terms, has reversed this trend resulting in a deficit
equivalent to 0.9% of GDP in 1980.
8.        High rates of economic growth in Paraguay resulted in registered
imports in current prices increasing at an average annual rate of 33% between
1976 and 1979. Thus, despite exports growing at an average annual rate of
18.8% during 1976-79, the current account deficit has tended to widen.
Although trading partner data suggest that these registered figures may be
underestimated on the average by as much as 50%, there is no question that
increased public and private capital inflows, mainly associated with the
construction of the hydroelectric projects, have more than offset the current
account deficit. Foreign exchange reserves thus increased from US$160 million
at the end of 1976 to US$773 million by December 1980.
Economic Prospects
9.        Given the availability of still abundant land resources, a favor-
able investment climate, a relatively favorable price outlook for major
agricultural exports and the construction of the hydroelectric projects,
Paraguay's prospects as regards the balance of payments and growth over the
foreseeable future are good.
10.       The country's development strategy aims at sustaining the growth
momentum of agriculture and agroindustry, giving high priority to land settle-
ment and to the provision of transport infrastructure to facilitate the flow
of goods to domestic and foreign markets. The Government is carrying out a
program to assist farm settlers in increasing their productivity, and is
expanding credit for agriculture and agroindustries. In the case of small
farmers, the emphasis is on the consolidation of existing colonization
schemes and the establishment of additional ones. Through foreign private



- 4 -
investment and credit programs, the Government hopes to encourage the concurrent
development of industries, particularly those with high value-added based on
domestic primary production.
11.       The authorities are aware that the continued expansion of private
investment and high rates of GDP growth will call for greater public investment
in supporting infrastructure as well as increased expenditures for education,
health, rural development and other development-related services. The needed
acceleration of public capital formation may require new tax measures, pending
substantial transfers from power export earnings to the Central Government,
to ensure the generation of the necessary additional internal resources. At
the same time, higher current expenditures are needed to improve effectiveness
and broaden the scope of public action in the social sectors.
12.       The level and pattern of public investment that could be achieved
during the next five years will also depend on the technical and administra-
tive capacity of the public sector to prepare and implement projects.
Although improvements have been made in the planning mechanism in recent
years, a bigger public sector investment program would require a large number
of well-prepared projects. There is a need, therefore, for upgrading the
technical aspects of project identification and preparation, and for devoting
increased attention to enhancing the administrative capacity of public sector
institutions. A broader investment effort will require streamlining and
decentralizing the decision-making process. 'Moreover, salaries of scarce
professional staff need to be adjusted upwards to compete effectively with
the increased demands of the private sector and the binational power companies
for their services. Given the institutional difficulties and the urgent need
for greater public investment to support higher levels of private economic
activity, substantial external technical assistance will be needed to bolster
the institution-building process.
13.       With the expected expansion of agricultural acreage and continued
construction of the hydroelectric projects, the economy could grow at an
average annual rate of about 9% during 1981-85. This projected rate is lower
than the average 10% of 1977-80 as a consequence of the expected decline of
construction activity on Itaipu after 1981, restrictive policies to avoid both
the acceleration of inflation and a deterioration in the trade balance. Because
of agricultural growth and favorable international prospects for cotton and
soybeans, real exports are projected to grow at about 13% a year during this
period. Imports are projected to grow at a slower rate than in the past. The
strong export performance is thus expected to reduce the resource gap from about
12% of GDP in 1979 to 5% in 1985. The current account deficit is expected to
remain in the range of US$450-550 million until the late 1980's, when compensa-
tion payments for electricity begin to accrue. Gross capital requirements to
finance the current account deficit as well as to maintain an appropriate
level of reserves are projected to total about US$3 billion during the period
1981-85. About US$1.2 billion of this is expected to consist of Itaipu and
Yacyreta financing. Another US$1 billion may be expected in the form of
private sector borrowing. Thus, only about US$0.9 billion may be needed on
the public account of which US$384 million for amortization. Given the projected
export performance, Paraguay is expected to maintain its current low debt service



ratio and its creditworthiness for the amounts of external capital required
to achieve the projected output growth rates.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
14.       Paraguay has received US$279.1 million (net of cancellations) of
Bank loans and IDA credits. Of this amount, US$229.3 million has been in
the form of 18 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million for eight IDA credits. As of
December 31, 1980, the Bank and IDA held US$266.6 million, including US$143.1
million undisbursed. The amount held by the Bank and IDA as of December 31,
1979, was equivalent to about 20% of Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of
about 24% IDA and 76% IBRD; this share is not expected to increase. The service
on this debt amounted to 12.6% of total debt service in 1978 or about 1.2% of
exports of goods and non-factor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA
assistance to Paraguay has been 38% for transportation, 34% for agriculture, 8%
for education, 15% for industry, 2% for water supply, and 3% for preinvestment
studies in various sectors. Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been
satisfactory.
15.       IFC has had two operation in Paraguay.  In 1974, it financed a wood
processing project. Its participation, a US$5.4 million operation with FINAP,
S.A., consisted of a US$4.0 million loan, an equity participation of US$1.0 mil-
lion, and a contingent loan for the financing of cost overruns of US$0.4 million.
The project has experienced critical financial and managerial problems, and
efforts to restructure it have not succeeded. IFC is in the process of divest-
ing itself from FINAP. Legal proceedings have been initiated against FINAP by
the National Development Bank. In 1980, IFC financed a US$1.2 million hotel
operation in the city of Encarnacion. Annex II contains a summary of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments, as of December 31, 1980, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Bank Group lending to Paraguay in FY80 consisted of the US$5.0 mil-
lion loan for a Second Preinvestment Studies Project and the US$31.0 million
loan for an Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project. Preparation
work is underway on projects in: ports and inland waterways, cement produc-
tion, rural development, area development (including watershed protection and
rural development), and highways. A rural primary education project and a
rural water supply project are expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors shortly.
17.       In lending to Paraguay, the Bank Group tries to assist the Govern-
ment in achieving four major objectives, which are interdependent and com-
plementary. One objective is to spread the benefits of growth more widely
than before and, more particularly, to attack directly the problem of rural
poverty. A second goal is to help Paraguay expand output, including exports,
by supporting projects that directly or indirectly make large contributions
to production and employment. A third objective is to support programs that
will bring about improvements in the management of the economy and, parti-
cularly, that will help to strengthen public institutions and financial
intermediaries. A fourth goal is to help the public sector to increase its
investments in support to the productive sectors and to expand perceptibly
into the social sectors.



- 6 -
18.       While the last objective primarily influences the magnitude of
the Bank Group's program in Paraguay, the other three jointly determine its
composition. Naturally, many operations serve more than one of the ends
listed and may, moreover, support more specific Government objectives. Thus,
Bank Group assistance for education, rural development and rural water supply
is designed to help ease the rural poverty problem and to improve the living
standards of the lowest 40% of the income distribution scale. Similarly, Bank
Group lending for industry, agricultural development and livestock is aimed at
increasing value added and exports of agricultural products, and at expanding
marketing outlets, particularly for small farmers. Lastly, loans in the
transport sector are designed to help improve institutional structures and
policies of the sector, which play a vital role in supporting the production
activities of the agricultural and industrial sectors. As agriculture consti-
tutes the backbone of the Paraguayan economy, these operations are designed to
support either directly or indirectly the development of that sector, by under-
pinning in particular the Government's efforts aimed at extending social and
other backup services, financial support and technical assistance to existing
and new agricultural settlements. In view of the increasing development
potential of the eastern region (as a result of the expanding agricultural
frontier and the impact of the construction of the large hydroelectric projects)--
and the need to assure maximum possible results, the Bank lending program for
Paraguay is to place increased emphasis on an articulate set of projects in
that region. Preinvestment projects are aimed at supporting programs that
help overcome institutional constraints, in particular in planning, economic
management, and project preparation and execution. The proposed project, is
in line with the objectives of supporting the development of a key sector of
the economy, the programs designated to improving the productive potential
of small-scale farmers, and the strengthening of public institutions and
financial intermediaries such as FG.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Agriculture is the most important activity in the Paraguayan
economy, contributing about 33% of GDP, some 95% of the country's total
exports, and over half of total employment. Its growth performance (close
to 7% per annum since 1973) has been the result of effective response of
producers to favorable external demand and prices, the country's favorable
investment climate, the ample potential of productive land and the Govern-
ment's consistent efforts to improve the sector's productive capacity through
investment in transport (mainly roads) and implementation of livestock and crop
credit and technical assistance projects.
20.       Rangeland covers about 17 million ha, of which 60% are in the Chaco
and 40% in the Eastern Region. Ranch sizes vary significantly. About 1% of
all ranches have more than 750 cattle per ranch and control about 55% of the
country's cattle population; 90% have less than 50 head and own only about
25% of the country's cattle. About three-quarters of the livestock producers
owning less than 20 head of cattle are also engaged in crop farming.



- 7 -
21.       Livestock productivity is low in terms of meat production per ha,
mainly because of extensive management methods and poor nutrition, particularly
in the Chaco, where pastures are subject to floods and droughts. This low
productivity is also attributed in the Eastern Region to low intake of minerals,
and in the Chaco to poor management and the presence of screw-worms causing
high calf mortality, as well as relatively ample availability of land.
According to sample surveys conducted by the Ministry of Agriculture, the
cattle population has continually increased in the seventies at an average
yearly herd growth of about 5%.
22.       Other classes of livestock are of much less importance.  Milk pro-
duction has grown slowly as compared to rapidly expanding demand, from 85,000
tons in 1970 to 157,000 tons in 1979, and currently some expansion is occurring
around Asuncion, Encarnacion and Ciudad Presidente Stroessner. In spite of
relatively good prices for milk, internal production has not kept pace with
demand, due mainly to high production costs brought about by improper management
and production systems. Pork production is mainly a secondary activity of crop
farmers and is semi-extensive because of high costs of purchased concentrate
feeds. Farm-grown feed such as mandioca, corn and soybeans provide the main
ration components. In 1979 close to 1.3 million pigs were slaughtered and
pork production reached 130,000 tons of carcass weight. Poultry and egg
production for the market is mainly carried out by commercial enterprises, but
volume of production is still relatively small - total annual bird production
was about 2,200 tons in 1972 and reached 3,600 tons in 1978.
23.       Production of crops, with cassava, soybeans, corn, cotton, tobacco
and sugarcane, fruits and vegetables being the most important, is essentially
limited to Eastern Paraguay, concentrated in the central Departments east of
the capital. Commodities which have had the most dynamic growth between 1972
and 1978 were soybeans (180% increase in quantity), cotton (160%), tobacco
(70%), maize (50%) and rice (26%). The recent increase in production has come
about mainly from an expansion of cropped areas, largely in new public and
private settlements north, east and south of the central region. Further
development of the subsector is expected to follow along the same general
lines, but accelerated by the demand and income generation arising from the
hydroelectric power projects along the Parana and the construction of the road
connecting Ciudad Presidente Stroessner with Encarnacion and associated feeder
roads (the completion of this link is being undertaken under the Sixth Highway
Project). The extent and speed of such further expansion would depend largely
upon the availability of investment capital and the public sector's ability to
provide adequate infrastructure and technical services that are necessary to
ensure the permanent transition from subsistence to commercial agriculture.
The latter would be of particular importance for the colonization process to
benefit small farmers. In line with this, the Bank and other aid agencies
have been helping to finance a number of rural development-type projects
designed to upgrade existing settlements and support new settlers.
Institutional Framework
24.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for policy
formulation and supervision and review of supporting services for the sector.



- 8 -
The Ministry's most important areas of concern are agricultural extension
(through the Agricultural Extension Service), research, marketing, agricultural
statistics and land reform. Various autonomous entities are responsible for
carrying out specific agricultural programs and activities. The National
University of Asuncion provides most of the agricultural education and some
research, while the Institute for Rural Welfare is responsible for carrying
out land tenure, land reform and colonization programs. The Livestock Fund
(FG), the National Development Bank, and the Small Farmer Credit Agency are
responsible for providing agricultural credit. The efforts of FG (an entity
with full legal personality under the jurisdiction of the Central Bank) to
reach the smaller livestock farmers are constrained by its inability to
provide them with suitable technical assistance services. Regarding the
ability of the National Development Bank, a Government-owned autonomous entity
under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, and Paraguay's main source of
institutional agricultural credit, to plan and execute development programs
has been constrained by institutional weaknesses, which are being addressed
through two recent Bank operations (including an overall financial and insti-
tutional rehabilitation plan). The Small Farmer Credit Agency, a Department
of the Ministry of Agriculture, is providing credit to members of farmers'
association who are not eligible for institutional credit; these operations
are supported by USAID. Supplementary technical services to the livestock
subsector are provided by the National Service for the Control of Foot and
Mouth Disease, and the National Program for Livestock Research. Lastly, at
the Ministerial level, the National Council for Social Progress is responsible
for the overall coordination of the policies of the agencies participating in
the execution of rural development projects, and the recently established
Agricultural Production Council is concerned primarily with marketing and
production issues and policies. Overall, the capacity of the agricultural
services is limited in comparison to the requirements for the full realization
of the country's agricultural potential. While considerable progress has been
made in strengthening the agricultural credit institutions in the framework of
previous and on-going Bank/IDA projects, efforts to upgrade the effectiveness
of technical services are being made with the support of IDB, UNDP, and USAID.
In addition, the rapid development that the sector has experienced over the
last two decades is not being adequately captured by the existing agricultural
statistics, as they are based on the census of 1956. An updated agricultural
census, followed by the establishment of a permanent system for gathering
annual agricultural statistics, is currently being undertaken with Bank
support; when completed this effort should provide the Government and the
external agencies concerned with more accurate information, which would
help define policy options, programs and investment priorities.
Land Tenure
25.       There are about 165,000 farms, of which 55% are operated by their
owners, 10% are operated under some form of tenancy arrangement and 35% are
occupied by squatters. The Government's land settlement program has reduced
significantly the portion of squatters and increased correspondingly the
share of owners. Land distribution is uneven reflecting, on one hand, the
pronounced differences between natural endowment in Eastern Paraguay and the



- 9 -
Chaco and, on the other, the differences between infrastructural development
in the central region and in the peripherical Departments. Some 4% of all
farms are larger than 100 ha and 61% are smaller than 10 ha. About 60% of
the farms under 10 ha are located in the "minifundia" zone south of Asuncion,
covering less than 4% of the country, and two-thirds of the units over 100 ha
are located in the Chaco. These larger farms are devoted mainly to extensive
livestock ranching or forestry because of poor natural resources and/or lack
of market accessibility resulting from poor infrastructure. On the other
hand, the bulk of the Government's land settlement program is being carried
out in the best agriculturally endowed areas of the country.
26.       In 1962, the Government established the Institute for Rural Welfare
to deal with all aspects of the land tenure, reform and settlement. The
Institute has organized public colonies and sponsored private ones, settling
about 3,000 people per year, mostly out of the "minifundia" areas south of
Asuncion. This program has concentrated on settling the largest number of
families at the lowest possible cost, basing development largely on the
self-reliance of the settlers. As a result of scarce agricultural services,
financial support, and infrastructure, farm development in these settlements
has been slow, and the standard of living of many settlers is barely above
that of the "minifundia" dwellers. Since the early seventies, the Government
has devoted increased attention to the consolidation of existing settlements
and rural development-type projects in new settlement areas, through the
provision of agricultural credit, extension and settlement infrastructure. As
a result, much of the recent increase in agricultural production has come from
farmers who have benefitted from the Government's land settlement program.
Agricultural Marketing and Prices
27.       In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is free
of restrictive Government regulations, and prices are largely established in
the market. In the absence of any significant concentration among market
agents, competition is strong except for isolated areas with poor infrastruc-
ture. Wheat is the sole product for which the Government guarantees a price.
Given the open economy, the market is influenced by market conditions abroad,
particularly in Argentina and Brazil, and domestic prices generally follow
the movement of world prices.
28.       Following the closure of the EEC market to meat imports in 1974,
and the subsequent decline in international prices in 1974/75, on the one
hand, and the strong domestic demand for beef resulting from the increased
level of economic activity in the country, on the other, livestock marketing
in Paraguay has been undergoing some noticeable changes. The proportion
of beef being exported declined to about 20% in 1976, compared to about 35%
in the early seventies. There have been, however, further changes recently,
pointing to a recovery in the proportion of beef production exported. In
particular the export of live cattle mainly to Brazil gained importance during
recent years, but because of the nature of this trade, its extent is not
known. It is, in these circumstances, difficult to forecast the likely future
distribution of the beef production of Paraguay between the domestic and export
markets. However, the expansion of the domestic market, the good emerging



- 10 -
prospects for exports, and the present and expected price increases in the
domestic and export markets are providing a strong incentive to Paraguayan
producers to invest in livestock, as reflected in the impressive pipeline of
loan applications pending with FG.
29.       Corresponding to the shifts in the market orientation of live-
stock production, there has been a decline in the number of operating meat
packing plants (from 10 to two) and their importance in setting beef prices
for the domestic market, which is relatively free. On the other hand, small
municipal slaughterhouses (70) play an increasingly significant role in
the industry, assisted by their low processing costs and a USAID-supported
improvement program, in meeting domestic demand. The prospects for the
meat packing plants are expected to improve in step with efforts to penetrate
new export markets and to increase exports generally.
30.       Demand for pork products is still greater than the amount marketed
in the country. At the same time, unregistered export of live hogs to
Brazil continues at an undetermined rate. Producers will be required to
change the type of pig produced from lard to meat type, if increased production
is to be absorbed by the consumers of fresh pork and the processing industry.
In the case of poultry and eggs, supply is still short of demand, and both
enter Paraguay from Brazil in a largely uncontrolled way. Milk is marketed
mainly in unprocessed form to the consumer, although there are some five
plants in the country that purchase and process fresh milk. Some of these
plants, as well as a Menonite plant in the Chaco, manufacture cheese, yogurt
and ice cream.
31.       There is a strong export demand for soybeans, cotton, tobacco, and
maize. Production of vegetables and crops for domestic consumption has also
increased slightly in recent years and meets the growing demand of the domestic
market. Since 1968, agricultural commodity prices have increased steadily in
nominal terms. During the 1971-74 period, the input/output price relationship
turned against agriculture, but a subsequent price increase has helped stimulate
output, particularly that of export products.
32.       Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to a lesser
extent, through cooperatives to wholesalers. Intermediaries, usually merchants
or truckers, purchase the farm products within their localities and frequently
use secondary agents to help them contact farmers in their area. They are
mostly small-scale operators with limited operating capital and handling and
processing know-how, and generally rudimentary storage facilities. A few
cooperatives and groups of farmers, organized relatively recently to obtain
agricultural services and to improve marketing, have succeeded in selling their
produce directly to wholesalers, exporters or even retailers. Improvements
are required in agricultural marketing to ensure better access of farmers'
products to local and foreign markets. Ongoing (for grains) and planned
(for fruits and vegetables) operations supported by IDB are designed to help
improve marketing in the countryside (through the provision of silos, marketing
infrastructure and information, etc.). The planned establishment of wholesale
markets in the country's major consumption centers should facilitate the
access mainly of producers of fruits and vegetables in areas surrounding
these centers; a wholesale market in Asuncion is being financed by the Bank.



- 11 
Bank Strategy
33.       The proposed project would be the eighth Bank/IDA-supported agri-
cultural project in Paraguay. These operations comprise a general-purpose
agricultural project in 1951, followed by four livestock projects, two rural
development projects and finally the Livestock and Agricultural Development
Project (Loan 1674-PA), which includes a rural development component, a
livestock development component, the construction of the wholesale market
in Asuncion and the undertaking of the agricultural census. The loan for the
Fourth Livestock Project is now fully disbursed and the first rural develop-
ment project (Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project) is fully
executed. Funds under the livestock component of the Livestock and Agricultural
Development Project are fully committed.
34.       The Bank agricultural lending strategy is to help in sustaining and
broadening the growth process which began in the 1970s. To this end, the Bank
is seeking to support efforts to: (a) expand cultivated areas; (b) increase
productivity; (c) diversify the production pattern; (d) increase agricultural
exports; (e) improve income distribution; (f) protect natural resources; and
(g) strengthen agricultural institutions. This strategy implies an increased
emphasis on rural development-type operations and a gradual de-emphasis of
traditional ranching operations. The former is based on the positive results
of earlier rural development projects and the experience gained, while the
latter is justified in view of the limited distributional impact and the insti-
tutional build-up that has been achieved so far through previous operations.
In addition, in order not to strain unduly project execution capabilities, the
aim is to attempt to have a balanced pipeline in this sector. Aside from
multisectoral rural development projects, where intra-government coordination
is of critical importance, a number of proposals would try to limit as much as
possible the burden on anyone of the implementing agencies and the coordination
requirements among them, in order not to strain unduly project execution
capabilities.
35.       As to the livestock subsector, Bank/IDA assistance initially concentra-
ted on supporting projects with the primary objective of increasing beef produc-
tion and exports, and building up FG as a viable livestock credit institution.
Beginning in 1973, the Bank/IDA widened the scope of its agricultural projects
by (i) including smaller livestock operations and (ii) supporting the Govern-
ment's settlement consolidation program (two rural development projects) to
assist in tapping the unused land resources in Eastern Paraguay, meeting the
fast growing internal demand for agricultural products, strengthening financial
and technical services in agriculture, and incorporating the lower income strata
of the rural population into the production process. The Fourth Livestock Project
and the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project have placed increasing
emphasis on FG's assistance to small mixed (livestock and crops) farms. The
proposed project is aimed at continuing efforts in this direction. The
lending program is in line with Government policy and is focussed on some of
the sector's principal needs. It constitutes a suitably balanced effort to
meet the economic and social objectives and needs of the sector, and is
complemented by Government actions supported by other lending institutions,



- 12 -
complemented by Government actions supported by other lending institutions,
mainly the IDB and USAID, and the Governments of Japan and the Federal Republic
of Germany, in the fields of agricultural marketing, research, extension,
agricultural statistics, and specific commodity programs. With financial
support from the Government's Preinvestment Fund (financed under Credit 587-PA
and Loan 1780-PA) and associated technical assistance a suitable pipeline of
agricultural projects is being prepared, which is expected to be financed by
the Bank and other interested aid agencies.
36.       Experience in implementing livestock and rural development projects
in Paraguay underlines the importance of improving: (i) herd management for
raising productivity in the livestock subsector; and (ii) the capacity of the
technical and financial services for agriculture, including transport infra-
structure, for successfully tapping the agricultural development potential in
Eastern Paraguay and meeting the social needs of the lower income groups in
the rural population. Concerning the livestock subsector, the Project Perfor-
mance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Third Livestock Project (Sec M78-248 of
March 28, 1978) indicated that beef production and productivity fell short
of the projections made at appraisal due to (i) inefficient ranch management,
reflecting absentee ownership and remoteness of many ranches; (ii) inadequate
technical assistance to sub-borrowers; and (iii) to a lesser degree insufficient
progress in expanding improved pastures. The PPAR for the Fourth Livestock
Project 1/ indicates that through concerted efforts in providing technical
assistance to producers, emphasising improved management practices and ensuring
proper followup, FG was able to achieve better progress in improving production
and productivity than in earlier projects; also, there were indications that
through this operation, many producers were able to utilize infrastructure
developed under previous project loans to increase productivity. The imple-
mentation record of the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project's
livestock, small mixed-farm development component and rural development
component as well as of the first two rural development projects is satisfac-
tory. An effort at post-evaluation of the Small Farmer and Rural Development
Project by the Ministry of Agriculture is underway. There has been an encour-
aging response from small-mixed farmers to FG's new programs in this area
which bodes well for the success of the proposed project's small-mixed farm
component.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The Government of Paraguay has requested a loan from the Bank to
help finance the continuation of its livestock development program, an effort
with which the Bank has been closely associated for more than 15 years. The
proposed project would be a follow-up to four previous beef cattle development
projects partially financed by IDA and the Bank and of the livestock component
of the on-going Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA).
The OPEC Fund for International Development is also expected to provide a
Loan to cofinance the proposed project. The proposed project was prepared by
1/   This report is expected to be issued to the Executive Directors in April
1981.



- 13 -
FG, with Bank assistance, and appraised by a Bank mission that was in the
field in October 1980. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Paraguay
Livestock Development Project" (Report No. 3311-PA, dated April 7, 1981) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and Project
Summary is placed at the front of this report. Attached as Annex III is a
Supplementary Project Data Sheet. Negotiations took place in Washington D.C.
in March 1981. The Paraguayan delegation was led by Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta,
President of the Central Bank of Paraguay.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The project aims at helping the Government to overcome some of the
most critical constraints affecting agriculture noted above. The project would
support the Government in its efforts to develop the agricultural sector, in
particular to strengthen the country's export capacity, intensify the natural
resource utilization, improve the incomes of smaller farmers and provide
additional employment. More specifically, the proposed loan seeks to extend
financial support, key technical assistance and back-up services to farmers so
as to improve production and productivity. In this context a key objective of
this operation is to con'solidate the trend initiated by FG in the last live-
stock operation which places an increasing emphasis on measures supporting
small farmers.
39.       The project would consist mainly of a countrywide agricultural
credit and technical assistance program to be carried out over a three-year
period, aimed at developing livestock (beef, dairy, swine, and poultry)
production in general and, at increasing production of agricultural crops,
mainly soybeans and cotton, when they are part of a mixed farming operation.
The major investments to be financed under the project would be cultivated
pastures, water supply and breeding stock, land clearing and preparation,
farm equipment, and planting material. The project would also finance the
incremental costs of strengthening FG's extension capacity.
Beneficiaries
40.       Project beneficiaries would be agricultural producers, operating
rainfed farms either as individuals or as members of cooperatives or similar
forms of associations. For the purpose of project financing, the farms would
be classified under three categories, as follows:
(a) Small-size Farm: A specialized beef-producing farm of not more than
250 ha, a mixed livestock/crop farm of not more than 80 ha, or any
other agricultural enterprise (e.g., dairy, pork, poultry) requiring
an investment loan of not more than US$30,000.
(b) Medium-size Farm: A specialized beef-producing farm ranging in size
from 250 to 2,500 ha, a mixed livestock/crop farm of more than 80 ha,
or any other agricultural enterprise requiring an investment loan of
more than US$30,000.
(c) Large-size Ranch: A beef-producing ranch of more than 2,500 ha.



- 14 -
The credit program is designed to assist 140 large producers, 450 medium-size
producers and at least 1,400 small farmers. The loan would be committed over
a three and a half year period and disbursed over a four and half year period.
41.       Lending to small farmers is an activity that FG started only two
years ago through the Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (Loan
1674-PA). As most small sized farmers are mixed livestock/crop producing
units, FG had to gear itself up to handle the more numerous number of borrowers,
as well as their greater and more diversified technical assistance requirements.
During this period, some 490 small farmers received 30% of the loan allocated
to FG. The present operation contemplates that at least 1,400 small farmers
would receive support under the loan. A minimum of US$13.5 million, or 45% of
the loan amount, would be allocated initially to the small-size farms category.
In order to ensure maximum support to small farmers under this operation,
during the 18 months period following loan effectiveness, allocation of funds
from the unallocated category could only take place for the small-size farms
category. Following that 18 months period, the Borrower and the Bank would
review the status of commitments for sub-loans to small farmers and the
performance of FG in the implementation of the project, especially with
regards to lending and technical assistance provided to small farmers. To
this end, FG has committed itself to undertake the best efforts in order to
increase its lending to small-size farmers by providing all necessary technical
assistance, extension services, and staff resources required for such purpose
(Section 2.11 of Project Agreement). This evaluation would also assess the
demand for such loans and FG's institutional capability to process them. On
the basis of this evaluation, the Bank would appropriately increase, or
decrease, by not more than 5 percent of the loan amount, the allocation for
small farmers (Section 2.03(b) and Schedule 2 of draft Loan Agreement). Also,
as noted below, financial contributions of borrowers and repayment terms would
be tailored to the financial capabilities of the beneficiaries.
Implementation and Managemen-Q
-_  .      .   .  _  ...
42.       FG would be the executing agency, and would provide financial
assistance to livestock producers and technical assistance to small farmers
with both crop and animal production. FG is managed by a coordinating
committee headed by a senior staff member of the Central Bank and includes
a representative of the National Development Bank. Its headquarters in
Asuncion include an Administrative and a Technical Department, a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit and Extension Unit (established under the Livestock
and Agricultural Development Project). There are three branch offices in
Concepcion, Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Encarnacion. These offices
were set up to provide credit and technical services more effectively.
The number of subloans processed by branch offices over the last few years
reveal a substantial decentralization effort. FG has a staff of 74, including
24 technicians (veterinarians and agronomists) in the Central Office, 12 in
the regional branches and two in an FG demonstration ranch on the Chaco. FG
finances are sound, despite a temporary cash shortfall during 1979 caused by
a rapid increase in loan demand. Its debt equity/ratio has been satisfactory,
averaging around 3.7/1.0 over the past three years. Its administrative costs
are low and it has practically no arrears.



- 15 -
43.       The Extension Unit would be strengthened and would include a crops
agronomist to assist the small-scale farmers in the area of Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner (Section 2.02 of draft Project Agreement with FG). Since medium
and large producers would be required to contract private technical assistance,
it is felt that the present technical staff of 35 would be sufficient to
prepare subloan applications and investment plans, supervise project invest-
ments and provide technical assistance to the smaller farmers. The proposed
project, through the strengthening of this Unit, aims at providing support to
a broad spectrum of small farmers.
Project Costs and Financing
44.       Total project costs, including price contingency, are estimated at
US$60 million (including import duties and taxes estimated at about US$6 mil-
lion), of which about US$30 million, or 50%, represents foreign exchange costs.
The loan would finance 50% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties.
Project costs have been estimated on the basis of June/July 1980 prices and a
price contingency amounting to US$10.7 million, or 22% of the baseline costs
(US$49.3 million) has been added. The price contingency is based on the
phasing of investment over a four-year period.
45.       The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million (representing about half
of total project costs) would finance the foreign exchange costs. Project
beneficiaries would finance US$11.5 million and FG would finance the remaining
costs (US$18.5 million). FG would be able to contribute its share of the
project without difficulties. The OPEC Fund for International Development is
considering a loan of about US$10.0 million at an interest rate of about 5%
per annum for a period of about 20 years, including 4 years of grace, for the
cofinancing of the proposed project. Once the OPEC Fund Loan is committed -
and its precise modalities better known - the Bank loan would be cancelled by
a commensurate amount and suitable amendments would be introduced in the Bank
loan documentation. The OPEC Fund Loan is expected to jointly finance with
the Bank loan the small farmer credit component.
Onlending Arrangements
46.       The Bank loan would be made to the Government at the lending rate
of 9.6% per annum for a period of 17 years, including four years of grace.
The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would on-lend the
proceeds of the loan to FG at an interest rate 0.5% above the Bank lending
rate. These relending terms would be embodied in a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and FG, satisfactory to the Bank, the signing of which
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Sections 3.01(c) and 6.01(b) of
draft Loan Agreement). Of the US$30.0 million loan amount, US$6.0 million
(20%) would be allocated to large producers and US$9.0 million (30%) to medium
size producers, a minimum of US$13.5 million (45%) to the small farmers
category, and the remaining US$1.5 million (5%) in unallocated funds, to be
released upon the terms set out in para. 41 above.



- 16 -
Livestock Development
47.       FG would provide banking and technical services and appraise
subloan applications on the basis of detailed investment programs, including
comprehensive farm/ranch development plans, income and expenditure estimates,
cash flow projections, and financial rate of return calculations (Section
2.03 of draft Project Agreement). No subloan made under the project to any
individual project beneficiary (except cooperatives) would exceed 0 18 million
(US$145,000) adjusted for inflation on the basis of the variation of the
Consumer Price Index from June 30, 1980 (Paragraph 2(b) of the Schedule to the
draft Project Agreement). The purchase of livestock included in the on-ranch/
farm investment plans financed under the project would not exceed the equivalent
of 50% of the total cost of the investment plans (Section 2(c) of the Schedule
to the draft Project Agreement). Subloan approval would be subject to verifi-
cation by the Technical Director of FG of the technical feasibility and
soundness of the investment projects, and of the availability of adequate
management in large- and medium-size ranches (which might require the hiring
of consultants by these ranches). Small farmers and/or cooperatives would
contribute a minimum of 10% toward investment costs, while other sub-borrowers
would contribute a minimum of 25%. Subloans for on-farm investments would be
for periods of up to 12 years, including up to four years of grace. FG would
decide subloan terms on the basis of farmer repayment capacity determined from
cash flow projections (Paragraph 3(a) of the Schedule to draft Project Agreement).
48.       Under the Fourth Livestock Project (Loan 1037-PA) and the Livestock
and Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA), the outstanding principal
of subloans was indexed on the basis of historical inflation rates. However,
in view of the rapidly declining inflation rates and the authorities' desire
to establish uniform interest rate arrangements for all credit institutions,
the Government has now decided to introduce for this operation a system of
fixed interest rates for new subloans, that would assure a positive level at
the time of commitment of subloans. Under this arrangement final borrowers
would pay an interest rate plus commissions which should be not less than the
variation between the year's average Consumer Price Index (CPI), and the
same average CPI for the preceeding year. In addition, final borrowers would
pay a one-time (i) administrative fee to cover FG's costs of loan appraisal
and supervision; (ii) 1.5% tax on financial transactions and, (iii) recording
fee, which altogether would yield about 1% over and above the interest rate
plus commission for an average 8 year loan. The initial interest rate and
commission fee would be of 18% (12% interest and 6% commission) and the
administrative fee of 6% for the large ranchers and 4% for the medium size
and small farmers (draft Supplementary Letter). The Bank would review
with FG these rates of interest, commissions and administration fees each
March 1, and they would be revised if need be, in light of the previous year's
inflation (Para 3 of Schedule of draft Project Agreement). The proposed
interest rate yield is in line with rates charged by other agricultural credit
institutions: the effective rate charged by the National Development Bank's
Agricultural Credit Department is currently 19.2%. Confirmation of these
on-lending terms by the Central Bank, through special action by its Board,
would be a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Repayments to FG under subloans would be used by FG to further promote agricul-
tural development, as well as to cover FG's administrative expenses and
repayment of the proceeds of the loan relent to FG (Section 2.07 of draft
Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
49.       The investment items to be financed through project subloans would
be procured by about 1,900 project sub-borrowers over a four-year period;
therefore, bulk procurement through international competitive bidding would
not be suitable. In most cases, works such as land clearing; pasture estab-
lishment; fencing; and construction of watering, stock handling and storage
facilities would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers themselves or by local
contractors. Other investment items such as fertilizers, machinery and equip-
ment would be procured at the sub-borrowers' choice from local, established
agents, who represent a broad spectrum of international and domestic suppliers.
There are no foreign exchange or other types of restrictions on the importa-
tion of any of the items financed under the project.
50.       The Bank would disburse, over a period of about four and a half
years, 62% of the amounts previously disbursed by FG for project subloans to
project beneficiaries for a total of US$30 million. The Bank would reimburse
FG for project subloans made against statements of expenditures. The documenta-
tion for the expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be
audited annually, in accordance with generally accepted standards, by independent
auditors, satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 2.08(a)(iv), and 3.04 of draft
Project Agreement). The documentation would retained by FG for review during
the course of Bank supervision missions. Past experience indicates that FG
maintains adequate documentation to satisfy Bank requirements.
Benefits and Risk
51.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 32%.  The proposed
project would help the agricultural sector better utilize its land resources
and would improve the living standards of small farmers. Foreign exchange
earnings would also be increased. At full development, the value of aggregate
incremental output due to the project would, in terms of 1980 farm gate
prices, amount to about US$37 million and the incremental herd value to US$38
million. The individual producer, as represented by the three farm models
prepared for the project would have the following financial rates of return;
39% for the small farmer, 28% for the medium-size farmer and 23% for the
large-size rancher.
52.       Sensitivity tests show that the project's economic viability would
remain satisfactory under all the assumptions tested (a 31% decrease in price
to the producer, a 260% increase in investment costs and a 54% increase in
production cost) within the range of most unfavorable output and price develop-
ments, yielding a return of about 12%. Sensitivity analyses show that the small
farmer component would be more sensitive to price and cost changes because of
the size of the units and the higher investment in agriculture, since agricul-
tural prices are more volatile than livestock prices. At present, the exports
of beef depend almost entirely on the Brazil live cattle market. If this market



- 18 -
should become inaccessible as a result of import controls or because of a
decrease in the value of the cruzeiro versus the guarani, substantial pressure
on the domestic beef price level would develop and prices could drop by about
10% to 20%, i.e., a level at which the domestic slaughterhouse industry expects
to become competitive again in the international market for processed beef.
Such a development would particularly reduce the attractiveness of the medium-
size and large-size farm investment programs without, however, affecting their
financial or economic viability.
53.       In addition to these market and price uncertainties for the
beef production component, there is a certain element of risk associated
with the small-scale farmer component. The farming system to be developed
is fairly intensive and requires a level of management that is not commonly
available. In the case of pig producers, a change in genetic make up and
nutrition of swine is also required to meet market standards. Although a
technical assistance component has been included, farmers will have to be
closely monitored so that they do not become bad credit risks, especially
in the light of the relatively high sensitivity of the proposed investment
program to a reduction of benefits. As mentioned above, FG is committed
to continue to increase its support to small farmers, within the limits of
its technical capacity.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.       FG's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would follow up the progress
of the project and evaluate the impact of the investments and technical
assistance provided under the project. The unit would carry out its tasks,
making use of background information related to all the individual benefi-
ciaries financed under the project, supplemented with an analysis of produc-
tivity and financial data collected on the basis of representative sample
surveys of farms financed under the project. The information assembled and
analyzed would be provided to FG management and the Bank in the semi-annual
Progress Reports (Section 2.08(c) of draft Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and FC, and the Report and
Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the loan are being listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft
Loan Agreement) would be the signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satis-
factory to the Bank, for this project between the Government and FG, and the
confirmation of the FG on-lending terms and conditions by the Central Bank.



- 19 -
57.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 7, 1981



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                       Page 1
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                     REPERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVEMCES
LANL AREA (THOUSAhD SQ KM.)D - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            406.8
AGRICULTURAL     162.2                                MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOMP
1960  /b   1970 Lb ESTIMATE A     LATIN AMERICA & CARIEBESi          EUROPE
GEE PER CAPITA (US$)                 250.0       390.0    1060.0               1562.9                   274935
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)     87.0        140.0    200.0                1055.9                   1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      1.8         2.3       2.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6        37.1      38.8                 63.4                     53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       5.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         9.O
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        4. 0        6.0       7.0                 28. 1                    77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     12.0        15.0      18.0                 81.7                    129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46. 0       46. 1     44.7                 41.4                     30.6
15-64 YRS.                        51.0        50. 7      51.9                 54.7                     61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0         3.2       3.4                  3.9                      8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2. 6f       2. 6/     2.8                  2.7                      1.6
URBAN                              2.9         3.0       3.5                  4.1                      3.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0         41.0      39.0                 34.8                     22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.0         9.0       9.0                  8.9                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..         3.2       2. N                 2.5                      1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..       26.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       15.5
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          94.0       103.0     102.0                106.9                    113.1
PUR CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                  109.0       121.0     122.0                107.4                    125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          71.0        77.0      80.0                 65.6                     91.0
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       40.0        42.0      46.0                 33. 7                    39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     16.0        10.0       8.0                  8.4                      4.3
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0        61.0      63.0                 63.1                     67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        64.0       ..                  66.5                     55. 9
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        11.0      13.0                 65.9
URBAN                              ..         22.0      25.0                 80.4
RURAL                               .          5.0       5. 0                44.0
ACCESS TO FXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         6.0      10. 0                62.53
URBAN                               ..        16.0      28.0                 79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2300.0      2340.Ojd 2156.0                1849.2                   1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      2310.0   2259.0                1227.5                    929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BSD
TOTAL                            430.0       620.0    695.0                 480.3                    299.7
URBAN                              ..        240.0     282. 0
RURAL                              ..       5830.0   6260.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                    ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5-5T        5.4/f
ERBAN                              5. 3/e      5. 0/f
RURAL                              5. 7/e      5. 7/f
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2. 6/e      2. 4/f
URBAN                              2. 6ft      1. 7       .f
RURAL                              ..          3. If
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             13.0        17.S        ..
URBAN                             33.2fe      41.l f
RURAL                              1.2f        1. 2/f



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                             Page 2
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                      REPERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMAT£)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOFE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMER.ICA & CAPIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0      102.0                  99.7                    105.9
2IALE                105.0       115.0      106.0                 101.0                     109.3
FEMALE                90. 0      104. 0      98.0                  99. 4                   103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         17.0       25.0                  34.4                     64.0
MALE                  11.0         17.0      26.0                  33.5                      71.1
FEMALE                11.0        17.0       25.0                  34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   7.0           6.0        5.0                  38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.0         32.0      28.0                   30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                           8.0          9.0       10.0                  14.5                     26. 1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75. Ofe      90.0       81.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          7.0        7.0                  43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         82.0         74.0      66.0                  245.3                    192.2
TV RECLIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         15.0      20.0                   84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         44.0      37.0                   63.3                     93.0
CINEiA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                   ..                       5. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       577.2        729.1      933.6
FEMALE (PERCEINT)                  21.7         21.4      23.0                   22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.0         53.0       50.0                  37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.0      19.0                   23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.5        31.7       31.9                  31.5                     40.9
MALE                                 51.7         50.0       49.6                  48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                                13.9        13.5       14.3                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.6        1.5                   1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGiIEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                 190.8
ESTIRATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      260.0                 474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     260.0                  332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       19.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       65.0
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Due to maigration of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil) , population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase; ft Coverage unknown;  /e 1962;  /f 1972.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22-                                                                                    AMUE  I
Page 3
DEFINITIONSi OF NSOCIAL, INICATORtS
NoIse   Al ch-). the dsiear  dr-s, fro.        ore.e.alylde   h    aa   sbnnno   anbd tl tbe   teol   lob   oe   htee   a   o   oitr
neioal ycasnbt  bcus  o  te  ac 1o asderdise   deittn    n   ocptsue   ydfeetcnniai  colceteg  he lan.    The da ate  none-...
cheles.. .sfu.o.        ecrbeod.sofmantue  un Icn   treds  and chsatete   ettrmlc     (frncobewe  cotrc 
ottaaujeecoety  (muot  or  C      "Ite   glurplus   h .iiimpttere'  gopeer   'Midl   ocua  North Ott1 ice hen   hiudd - tsr'I  i-o-e bec.s  ofah on.
of  lIIf~ on   o hcrnes.e.a...    g  the   onoicyandrefhence gnIup
Toit.-   Ine  sufete aes  cape tetg  feed eras asd inIsed ete..ae .n qualified tr-  a edirsi stihoola5anneipiss
forcrp..patur.,maoe  e-d bitchan garden  on. to .Is  fallen; 1917 data.                 asia and tamle geaduate   uss  pra.itt-Ines  . sdaeitesmasa
nuieted by  am  coet ton e_nod as OnId tan  Anse  19-79 beets); 19ff,                           aaialeinpb li   e   rvt  geerl  a                          ieecated hsia   a 
190,adildn.balintceen. HpI tlaesbLsaatp                                                                                                                 pnannlycafe
1979 d.l..                                                     _"~~~~~~~~~~~byanles tee p Hacs..ptbti      et poiigpictel    sda
an   lgnte   rtnlem,naurlget asd hydro,   -ut-re  and geotherma  eII-                  cetr   ctpraesl   rffd by s physiciam  (but by a medical  . aeisnea
erc cy  t  Ahorae  h  oa  eutalo Ipt  capits; 1960il 90,th ..ad 19ffnuse   idetfe, etc.)I ebch often in-Peeet .cc                                   -oad preide
nets inctud  WHOt  pliocipel generel end apen1jiaed  he,itl    eAnaa
POP TIOuN_itna  tl TL iSTuTISiICiheptsloaoruntopilsndmdica  sad aarItL  casters.
ToaMPp latn,5d-iea. (sIfn ..    us of Jnly 1, 1960, 197t, aed 1978                  Adfiasi.n. Pen O5Pita   e   Ton.    sra   dif sdaisei.n. no c  disc,harges.
dataPI...              2     f              tidi--f    t1pp1,.l                                fros hospitlsl divded by the  usbet it heda.
difeem   defintetnee-of ob'on arasm pffe-t coaparebtlity of dsts                      HOUSING
amngcosrus;hA,1971, ard 19ff I.e..                                                   ocy.r.. Si.e of Hnu...o. hId eso  ce   osbll     oa,uba,adee
total  popltionM  by ago and se  and thiet  son.isiy and fertility  raes                     he  hu_houd fun sttistical p-rponem.
Peefones  enmetrafor street m,y  ftes coe,Ir te  of eh..e leves asus                      Anea   bohe  of -.era..n I pe  ro--         -!tl,urban-sd runat - avrae se
LIng life sepece...ny a  birth iooresing a tu   cutr's pet ce pies Iecom                    hen of  Iesn    e   oti l rban. s-d rura  -ccp ted conenioml
leve, end  taaelietpec-asy sait ga  717.5    na.The y..-d...ng  , epriey                                                   e1ine. oentyraat  ...oure  a
Leemfrfe.hyrtsam    aetreinl  aasigdciai                                            nccupied parts
end lentil fmyted to  proeoim   puroe .                    o_ttl.uts,  ndrraldetinarLpcc
inaiuocv  ctuentn-deoPt..er          poultinter PIs no. LIEneteftosI                                                                       .1    l.
the h rthrateis eual  o ch  deah tans  end. al-btaeii          ctunste-.         A,  ... nmclut 1:1..jl    pS
Rancnta    Ti   oaheedolyatnfetlc    se  denin   ii                                        djatd  nrolsstato
threisens  lveofuleetspnuctsneeohnachgneetio                   Ptarsctoitcalmaendemiruvstoatstende-                                        i
o.   f ffnoectpls-e itsel  toajctly.. TbaId     unsypplainst  nas....rfoLleen  of.. all ages1 at te pimaylnI  eftatae    fnep
Inteyer.      Ot   n  the. rat .Iif. decineo  fertilimy rat  t  rplce y'Ears                             .. bu      Rju tadfrdfern   ofi  o   eme   dsat             o
sent level,.-.l -                                               II   .c
cointteaa tbuniverseleducattnevnt -eesia1escedl   panceet.
Pen eq. ha. aericulua  land - Coafnd  asi.  ebf  for agricyI.Iciueel land1 eaoilded.
l-atto       .......n;d 19ff.h.   -Th.191hft,i ..and.. 1971.il   c data                       Puul-saceb.t..pnthrn                               ffiscnds-Tts  stdh et toiedl
year peultim   ton. lfhf-6d          96-7C nd197-f.cospodi    enls
PInd Mtrdbtansleapthouand)- P.,ua qliv hieths pe tloaae o.f.la)Id-year l pl.dp
roulttn;191  171  ad  fO    at.                                  LsisrIo
Crd Iai  gm   rai  husn)-yuua   eth   e  tosndo   idya                                 Pseueiar   rn  huan.ou.no.  esegr  aectpie an
poplafi;  96, 171  ad  91  daa,cas  seiegles  hadegh   ptar;sc -                                                     udes      i.hutastes .  hearees ae
Onsee netrotuottue Oane-oversee  n~~~~bet of1daugi..e.aafogem  mill..bearlit  military. ge...l-11
te  eemlreroutie   suo   i   bsaepninteprset  g-satiinPe-          taictnsnea(te  hasndonuatoy -Ot  trs  f  eeiar   inrya
nitt rrats; uuall   t tne-yetaeae C       euptteg  im ifycg,,bNlt,ae  191.                bodat-tdsss    uli   e   hsad  fpplrIn;acoe    mi
PsalyPisnia    knesons Anul )hoeaesl- onsl  uaer  f  ncetoa              ened  eisnee  n cuoeta nd  v yar  aer  egstrtin   f ndi   a
ofhnbcnnldvcelsqIaieIfmdoa   aiyplnigperm                                                    s   nefct   aefrrcn   er   a  nth   opthesnsma
64 y.-)AK   flld  ~~~~~~~65     c.  .d  .. lNmatarr CiculaitIcnhoan  rouaii -P                                                  ba,h   nresiecl.
inesofFod  reutlon  ar  et-d_      lfb-11 f -,.      Inesofmn  apt           annual.tue  of  "dil              enrl interest              aa  T.sppstc.deine    .are I.dis p11b-
Per :.           (P caht.....cv do caore    necA--  ofI rbnstha%e)- Com. uted froids..
emporsa,.. and     170 changes iv,                                                                    I            h. sto.fa  eple   iueaia   ee,seshamdtre   aduepoed bteluighsEnicee. stdenta, et.d
moie nre  stiate lhrre   h     bassd vs     g rbaoIts  seeds forl noma  ani-             7 dte.I
ifiosty     lav l; 1961 --il, lilt,g end11977 data,                                         fishing7as ..ncen..g   of tdbite  labr force;.  .19, 191an.98Paa
Pe   a  sasri   f net  ar          f_e ay       rtincnetofpripns                 ld..n.ecn)      ao   orei    iin.cvtucio,snuatns
neteurif  f fid  en  ay.tatauplyof  oodte  tfiet  s sins   te    ad seceiciy,  ane  an  ge  aarecervgeot  cts  laor  orc; ltP
qo.1inaevetn  e A -countries.. estabIshd   by lic   pnnvtde for afiss                          91 Id 1r70 dote
al dsr    ftnnaOsia   rnm            eorn         lyaasfnaaad                    rrlieutaecren-ce    aeadcet-aecrtco
culs poten,  i oichII  rac   ehuldha  elal poten -Tbee see-                         aeiney  ate  ar  copotd a  toal,mal, ed fsa..laoriorc.a
ard  ar  ber  ho  thse  f  1 gam   ofenel  rottsand23  ras   rrctfsoaof  osa,  slean  faalspoolaio  ofellsLebrcet...r
snima11  ..osiun as es c.cag  Ifo  tieord,   rvcad  ygAli  th  Thrird                         tfT19.an175da.                   heereIlsrtcrstirtsrfeci
Oned  co  huce;   96-65   lli _ud197 .an.                                        age-san1.;,;  structue  0  h  populatlc Io,adIc      iu  trerd.l. Ai fen. est
fttapoensneofc   nto  ndoie-Pcec  upyo   o    a
UliI,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e e   r  fro   naionadliaoote.g
ftl   ae   hi-A)b 5v ainf "ia   (rer thossai) -h   . Annuldeaths pedtou a in              Te the i na.  labor thoetdppa        .i.              i-        .    r.d..c1
creot datiddrloedinns lif  tables;19blic191  and.197.dana.                                ic  Iep..lT-IlIlli
ethiti;lO      17  and 1919. data...
inasnnoiyat   ie  bssd   -Ana   etso infnt   sdd                               e  yar      rvey  Tbue Idt1yiPAfp.r    11 1L,                        1.....1
of se .e  tfcosod  bo h          drbs,                                                      esimtdbolt Pocatc scom feet (s)  et cnut I     ure  edcaeb
uccase  tes tsetIrecen ofcvrtssoml- ttal ureso en  roat  ck.,.ut  povert  teci mo ih.                  e  t.r   thatdincom ei st beit eto  a itog_
f.ubro.     eol   ntl  unhee1d d)and nunl.   fnIth rsnal   ceev   as                         ntreoa  yaeot   itpu Iaeuia.nv-vd   nqn resetsino
netn  uply(iclde   crsed  or ss  sera  r  nteaedbs  ucinamnaed         afonabe 
eaerauh  e  ha   cc  fcectd  onhL 9e,  apniugs, se   sntrcle   as97snidtts teilat.ine-vrrIon   ee   I)crc   us      ea   a   ua
peceeaesofebltrepet c  ruaIot s f          In anubnCsep   irRrl  esirpnet    fveles   soerhrLfaeafde   spt
hoseio gannets hLansa (tenant at, sspulai-n-cosldab ea1tod... 1
roatly   trdlhde th  collectionaddeoslgito  nibsdy  tnsithen, .9                              -.P-inIsImic Lea-v-                        i  and Prolenms     leprafimame
of h .e deacrnn at-ae byiease-horn -iSyea o0pr ...bmf ... of.b f.i'f
pIe prides andr similar deesf..                                                                                                 = iign96



- 23 -
ICONMIC INDICATORS                                                                  ANNEX I
Population:  2.9 million (1979)                                                                                                                                   Page 4
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 1,060  (1979)
Aeount                       Average Acunul Increase (X)               Share of GDP at Market Prices (X)
Indicator                                            (million USS current)                 (at constant 1977 Prices)                        (at current prices)
1979                        1963-70   1970-75    1975-80              1965       1970     1970       1980
National Accounts
Gross domsestic product                                   3,415                            4.4        6.2       10.4               100.0     100.0    100.0      100.0
Agriculture                                             1,073                            1.6        6.1        7.2                36.7      32.1      36.9      30.9
Industry                                                  756                            6.0        6.5       15.3                18.1      19.6     19.6       22.7
Services                                                1,586                            6.1        6.2       10.6               45.2       48.3     43.5       46.4
Consumption                                               2,858                            4.1        3.7       10.2                86.1      85.7      76.7      78.0
Gross Investment                                            976                            6.0       15.8       20.0                15.1      14.7      24.1      28.8
Exports of goods and NFS                                    616                            3.8       12.1       12.2                16.1      16.0      16.8      21.2
Inports of goods and NFS                                  1,035                            3.9        5.8       19.8                17.2      16.4      17.6      27.9
Gross domestic navings                                      557                            5.3       25.0       11.4                13.9      14.3      23.3       22.0
Amount                       Average Annual Increase (%)                Composition of Merchandise Trade (3.)
(million USS current)               i(t constant 1977 oice,_    (at current Prices)
1979                        1965-70   1970-75    1975-80              195        1970     197        98
Merchandise Trade
M-rohandise exports                                       520                            3.6       16.4        9.6
Merchandise imports                                       863                            5.3        6.0       19.9               100.0     100.0    100.0      100.0
Food                                                     20                           -1.7     -10.7        19.4                10.9       8.2       3.3       2.0
Petroleum                                                88                           11.0       1.9         7.5                8.5        8.1      14.4      11.8
Machinery and equipment                                 146                           -0.5      14.0        13.8                26.7      24.2      22.2      16.5
Other                                                   609                            3.0      19.0        20.1                53.9      59.5     60.1       69.7
1975          1976           1977          1978           1979
'rices and Tern, of Trade
PtdDP deflator  (1977=100)                                               87.2          91.6          100.0          110.4          133.1
Exchange rate ($/US$)                                                  126.0          126.0         126.0           126.0          126.0
Export price index                                                       72.3          75.5          100.0           95.4          104.9
Import price index                                                      98.3           92.4          100.0          110.3          130.6
Terms of trade index                                                    73.6           81.7         100.0            86.5           80.3
As 7. of GDP
(at current prices)
Public Finance (Central Administration)                          1965    1970    1975      1979
Current revenue                                                10.4    11.7      9.4     10.1
Current expenditure                                             8.4    10.2      7.6      6.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      1.9     1.5      1.8      3.4
Capital expenditure                                             1.7     1.9      2.3      2.8
Financing (net)                                                -0.2      0.4     0.5     -0.6
1962.70        1970.75         1975-80        1980-85
Other Indicators
GNP grovth rate (5.)                                          4.4             7.0          10.5             9.3
GNP per capita growth rats (%)                                1.7             4.1           7.6             6.4
ICOR                                                          2.9             2.4           2.4             3.0
Marainal savings rate                                        27.3            53.0          24.5            23.4
Import elasticity                                             1.1             1.0           1.9             0.9
March 31, 1981



- 24 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNA4 CAPITAL AND DEBT                                               ANNEX I
(million US$ at current prices)                                                       Page 5
Population: 2.9 zillion (1979)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,060 (1979)
Actual                     'is                                Prilected
1976      1977       1978       1979        1980               1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net eaports of goods and uervices                            -136.6    -190.8    -343.6    -434.4    -549                   -465       -500       -566       .558       -557
Exports of goods and services                               273.0     409,2      503.3      661,1      693               1,009      1,237      1,519      1,891      2,320
oport ot goads and services                                409.6      600.0      846.9   1,095.5   1,242                 1,474      1,737      2,085      2,449      2,877
Nct transfers                                                   4,2        1.2       5.8        7.3       14                  16         17         19         21         23
Current a-ccont balance                                      -132.4    -189.6    -337.8    -427.2    -534                   -450       .483       -547       -537       -534
Direot private investment                                      11.4      17.0       21.9       51.9       57                  63         69         76         84         92
MHLT loans net                                                 64,0      121.9     134.9      111.0      242                   54       158        250        366        448
Offitifl                                                     50.0      47.6       89.6       38.9      115                  44         68         76         75         80
Private                                                      14.0      74.3       45.3       72.1      127                  10         90        173        292        368
Other cupitrl                                                 107.1     [59.6      349.7      432.8      403                 371        300        280        148         65
Change in reserves  (-=increase)                              -50.1    -108.9    -168.7    -168.5    -167                    -39        -44        -58        -61        -71
Internatiocal rosorves                                       161.5      269.4      438.1      606.6      774                 812        857        915        976     1,047
teserves us months of imports              .                    4.7       5.4        6.2        6.6        7.5                 6.6        6.0        5.3        4.8        4.4
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disb-u -sts                                              74.0     139.2      147.0      157.2
Conceou.onal loans                                          30.7       26.9       38.3       21.1
DAC                                                       10.4        4.6       2894        5.8
IDA                                                        2.6        5.2        5.3       3.6
Other                                                     17.7       17.1        4.6       11.7
Noc-cnc.essienl loans                                      43.3      112.2      108.7     136.1
Official export  -reditu                                   9.5        8.1       10.1      29.2
IBRD                                                       4.6        6.9        1.8       16.4
Other multilsteral                                          -          -         9.6       4.3
Private                                                   29.2       97.3      81.2       86.2
Extornal Debt
Debt outstanding and diaburued                             280.6      395.2      520.6     628.7
Official                                                 180.7      219.9     297.4      329.7
Private                                                   99.9      175.3     223.1      299.1
Undisbursed debt                                           228.6      211.3      307.7     515.0
Debt =ervioe
Total service pusyects                                      31.3       42.6       49.9      81.5
sntreret                                                   9,6       12.7      18.0       30.0
Poymsnts as % exports                                       11.5       10.4        9.9      12.3
Average itterest rote on ns loans (7.)
Official                                                     5.6        6.6        6.6        6.5
private                                                      8.4        7.5       10,3       8.4
Aver-ge naturity efsew, loanc (years)
Official                                                    23.7       20.2       23,3      21.1
Private                                                      7.0        7.2       8,4       10.7
Ac % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Moat Recent
Year (1979)
Maturity structure af debt outatandiug
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                             54.6
71aturities dun withia 10 years                                                                           96.1
l-sert r atruc-ure of debt ouetstadius
Interest due within first year                                                                             5.1                                             March 31, 1981



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (December 31, 1980)
-------(US$ million)-------
Loan or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.    Year    Borrower          Purpose                Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and seven credits fully disbursed                  35.8   45.8 1/
1059           1974    Paraguay   Highways IV                  14.5      -        1.1
587           1975    Paraguay   Preinvestment Studies           -    4.0        2.8
1346           1976    Paraguay   Rural Education               8.0      -        4.2
1418           1977    Paraguay   Rural Development II         22.0      -       18.0
1419           1977    Paraguay   Industrial Credit            10.0      -        2.7
1502           1977    Paraguay   Rural Water Supply            6.0      -        3.6
1529           1978    Paraguay   Highways V                   33.0      -       20.4
1674           1979    Paraguay   Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0       -      14.5
1736           1979    Paraguay   Highways VI                  39.0      -       39.0
1780           1979    Paraguay   Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0      -        5.0
1866 2/        1980    Paraguay   Industrial Credit and
Regional Development   31.0        -       31.0
Total (net of cancellations)                  229.3   49.8       142.3
of which has been repaid                     10.1    1.5
Total now outstanding                         219.2   48.3
Amount sold                         1.3
of which has been repaid         0.4          0.9
Total now held by Bank/IDA                    218.3   48.3
Total undisbursed                                                142.3
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.
2/   Not effective



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - December 31, 1980
Type of             (Amount in US$ million)
Year      Obligor                       Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                 Wood Processing          4.4       1.0       5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)                                0.9       0.3       1.2
Total gross commitments less
cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               5.3       1.3      6.6
Total undisbursed                                      -         -         -



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 1059-PA   Fourth Highway Project, US$14.5 million, December 12, 1974;
(Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981).
Work on one project road (Mbocayaty-Colonia Independencia) was
completed in July 1978; the other project road (Encarnacion-Pirapo) was
completed in July 1980. The closing date of June 30, 1980 was extended until
June 30, 1981 to allow for the use of the uncommitted balance of loan funds
(US$1.1 million) for the purchase of spare parts for rehabilitation of mainte-
nance equipment. The consulting firm engaged for assisting in highway mainte-
nance and for preparing a study on maintenance needs has completed its task.
The latter study was the basis for the subsequent highway loan (Fifth Highway
Project - Loan 1529-PA).
Credit 587-PA Preinvestment Studies Project, US$4.0 million, October 17, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
The entire amount of the credit is now committed. Substantial
progress on the institution building side has been accomplished on the basis
of experience gained under this project, which has led to the preparation of
a second operation, recently approved. The Closing Date was extended from
December 31, 1980 to December 31, 1981 to permit making final payments to
study consultants and finance additional technical assistance requirements.
Loan 1346/      Third Education Project, US$4.0 million Credit and US$8.0
Credit 667-PA million Loan, December 22, 1976; (Date of Effectiveness:
March 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981).
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule due
to initial lack of counterpart funds. However, under a revised implementation
schedule the project is expected to be completed by the present closing date
of June 30, 1981. About 25 associated rural primary schools, 27 community
learning centers, and 2 secondary schools are completed. Construction of
54 new rural primary schools as well as of five secondary schools are being
completed by December 31, 1980. Satisfactory progress has been made in
contracting technical assistance specialists and in implementing the textbook
production and in-service teacher training programs. Total project cost
is expected to be about 3% lower than originally estimated, due mainly to
reduction of rural school construction specifications.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Loan 1418-PA   Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981).
In spite of initial delays, this project is now being implemented
satisfactorily. Most contracts for major roads, community centers, health
posts and centers have been awarded; the remaining works should be tendered
for and contracts awarded before June 30, 1981. Completion of land titles,
at 2,777 by December 31, 1980, is about 95% of appraisal estimates. Crop
production in the Project area is impressive, particularly the stands of
soybean and maize. Seasonal loans, however, are down slightly from last year's
level. This is attributed to farmers' experience of relatively unattractive
crop prices last season, to the increase in the effective interest rates from
12 to 18% charged by BNF for seasonal and medium-term loans, and to a shortage
of administrative field staff to process all loan applications in good time.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982).
One of the main objectives of the Project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made towards
meeting this objective, for the first time since 1972. This was achieved in
part due to a reduction in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a
capital contribution of f 1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan.
BNF's debt recovery efforts, however, have not yet been sufficiently effective
in decreasing the level of arrears. To accelerate the institutional improve-
ments, on the other hand, the UNDP-financed technical assistance program has
been expanded by incorporating experts in agricultural programming, portfolio
management and electronic data processing systems. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 46 sub-
projects with small-scale enterprises accounting for most of them. Disburse-
ments, however, were running somewhat behind schedule. Since BNF has already
met the conditions for releasing the pending amounts under the Loan's second
tranche (US$6.0 million), an additional US$4.0 million has been made available
to finance subprojects.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan 1502-PA   Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16, 1977;
(Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982).
Project implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. A six
month delay which had resulted from a late effectiveness may be reduced.
Up to date 45 projects for the same number of community (91% of total) have
been approved. Forty-four communities have currently signed contract with
SENASA for the implementation of these projects. The second annual purchase
program (1980) has been satisfactory carried out. As of December 31, 1980
loan disbursements amounted to US$2.60 million or 43% of the total loan
amount. A new project has been appraised covering new areas with both water
supply and sanitary facilities; special emphasis is being placed on the south-
eastern part of the country.
Loan 1529-PA   Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route I (Paraguari-Encarnacion, 303 km),
on the basis of a revised pavement design, are expected to be completed by
September/October 1981. Construction and supervision contracts for the Coronel
Oviedo-San Estanislao road have been signed and work is well underway.
Loan 1674-PA   Livestock and Agricultural Development Project, US$25.0 million,
April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November 20, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
There is considerable variation in project implementation among the
various components. As of December 31, 1980, FG had committed about 88% of
the credit funds with highest percentage of disbursements among medium and
small producers. Credit demand remains high and a new project is being
proposed. The rural development component is only beginning. The major
problems are lack of an adequate number of technicians in BNF and SEAG (the
extension agency), failure to initiate the road building component, lack of
vehicles for field technicians and failure of BNF to implement needed admin-
istrative and organizational changes at the branch office level. The whole-
sale market component is progressing well, the long term marketing advisor
is now on the job, bids have been received and contracts awarded for the
construction of the market as well as for supervision of the work. Prepara-
tion for the agricultural census component is being carried out slowly. The
Bank is disbursing for the purchase of 10 vehicles needed to begin field work
for the census.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan 1736-PA   Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
The Government has received proposals from consultants to assist the
establishment of Feeder Roads Unit, but the Bank has not yet received the
recommendations for awarding of the contract. The Government's Feeder Roads
Coordinating Committee has been established by Decree. Procedures for contract-
ing the design of feeder roads are under way. Contracts have been awarded for
the construction of the two sections of Route 6; works are scheduled to start
during the second quarter of 1981.
Loan 1780-PA   Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The technical assistance component, financed by UNDP with the
Bank as executing agency is progressing well: advisors have been appointed
to the Ministries of Finance, Public Works and Agriculture. The Financial
Programming Division in the Ministry of Finance has initiated its activities
and is actively involved in assessing the public sector's investment and
financing needs for the medium-term. A pipeline of preinvestment studies has
been prepared which is pending review by the National Preinvestment Council;
of these studies, the study on cement prouction, Stage II, has been granted
priority. The National Projects Office has also reviewed some of the financial
issues involved in the granting of subloans by the Preinvestment Fund and made
recommendations to the Central Bank.
Loan 1866-PA   Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Closing Date: December 31,
1984).
This loan has not become effective yet.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: 12 months
(b) Preparation by: Government (Livestock Fund) with Bank assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:  November 1979
(d) First Bank Mission: May 1980
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: October 1980
(f) Negotiations: March 1981
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: September 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions of Bank Loan
(a) Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (i) signing of a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, for this
project, between the Government and the Livestock Fund (FG);
and (ii) confirmation of the FG on-lending terms and conditions
by the Central Bank (para. 58).
(b) Not later than 18 months of the loan effectiveness, the Govern-
ment and the Bank jointly would review the status of commitments
for subloans and the performance of FG under the small farmer
component to determine if the amount allocated should remain
45% or be increased or reduced within a ceiling of five percentage
points (para. 41).
(c)  If the rate of inflation warrants it, the Government has undertaken
to modify in agreement with the Bank, the interest rate charged
to new suborrowers so as to maintain an effective rate of about
1% over inflation (para. 48).
(d) No subloans made under the project to any individual beneficiaries
would exceed 0 18 million adjusted for inflation, nor would the
purchase of stock included in the livestock on ranch/farm invest-
ment plans financed under the project, exceed the equivalent of 50%
of the investment plans. Beneficiaries' contributions would, at
the minimum, be 10% for small farmers and 25% for other subborrowers
(para 47).






z  E A ;  ;  X    u   W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W   W        <           X m        m     wA          X    X _ S~~~~~~~~~rL   Rt  -A
S~~OI~~f\/~~A   I                                                    V                  3A)
!I             tnI/A L  T O                                             A      Ft ,CA
I ~      ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ARAAPAGO UPLA AY
LB1T    Al oAi   PB&rB   n  o;                              I t 
U          -/                       L.flM
@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                  L.          p            t
ALTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
NU    A  SUNCION       BA B,A~~~~~~~~~~~A~~BLBOBECIO                                                                   ZaA   l 
'LpLB (t--                                LBA        ;                  LWg
; 1t'tr/> \:WE f i /, 42X'd r b t%E --: !WS' iX>DrleA  %gtP i ~~
B----                                                                                                     OP V~~~~PR 
i=                       iN"?  L=                                       pLB AM
,Sft 1'= 9ARTi\ Si - fiNfW                                 i                                  i                               5  NA5<5 _



