Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             F1                Y
Report No. 3311-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 7, 1981
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
Ltheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =    0 126
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF                         - National Development Bank
CAH                         - Small Farmer Credit Agency
CB                          - Central Bank
CRIA                        - Regional Center for Agricultural Research
DEAF                        - Bureau of Agricultural and Forestry
Education
FED                         - Special Development Fund of Central Bank
FG                          - Livestock Fund of Central Bank
IAN                         - National Agricultural Institute
IBR                         - Institute for Rural Welfare
MAG                         - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
PAC                         - Program of Joint Action
PRONIEGA                    - Livestock Research Program
SEAG                        - National Agriculture and Livestock Extension
Service
SENACSA                     - National Animal Health Service
SENALFA                     - Foot and Mouth Disease Institute
SENASE                      - National Seed Service
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .................................                            1
A.   Agriculture  in the Economy  ..........................                          1
B.   General Characteristics  .............................                           1
C.   Livestock Production  .             ................................             3
D.   Marketing of Agricultural  Products  ...... ............                         4
E.   Agricultural Taxation  ...............................                           6
F.   Agricultural  Services  ..................               ...............         7
G.   Sector Policies  and Bank Lending Strategy  ....                   .......       7
:I.   THE PROJECT EXECUTING INSTITUTION/FONDO GANADERO                        ........       8
III. PREVIOUS  BANK/IDA FINANCING OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS    ....                         11
TV.   THE PROJECT  .............................................                           13
A.  Background  ..........................................                          13
B.   Project Concept  and Composition  .....................                        13
C.   Detaíled Features  ...................................                         14
D.   Project Cost  ........................................                         17
E.   Financing of Project  Costs  ..........................                        17
F.   Procurement  .........................................                         18
G.   Disbursements  ........................... ...........                         18
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ....................................                          19
A.   Organization  and Management  ..........................                        19
B.   Technical Assistance  ................................                          19
C.   Lending Procedures  and Conditions  ...................                         20
D.   Accounting  and Auditing  .............................                         21
E.   Monitoring,  Progress Reports  and Evaluation  ...    ......                    21
Thís report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Paraguay in October 1980. The mission was composed of
Messrs. J. Bazo, J. Glenn, F. Miyanaga and A. Uhlig (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oñly in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
| _ _  .                                                    ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION PATTERNS AND TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS ....          .......    22
A.  Production Patterns ..................................    22
B.  Technical Coefficients ...............................    23
VII.  PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS .......   24
A.  Production ...........................................    24
B.  Markets ..............................................    24
C.  Prices ...............................................    25
D.  Producer Benefits ....................................    26
E.  Project Cash Flow ....................................    28
VIII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION .....................   29
A.  Economic Analysis ....................................    29
B.  Economic Rates of Return .............................    29
C.  Sensítivity Analysis .................................    30
D.  Project Risks ........................................    31
E.  Impact on Environment ................................    31
IX.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMYENDATION .... .....   31
ANNEXES
1. Supporting Tables
T.1   Institutional Credit to the Agricultural Sector  ....    34
T.2   FG Balance Sheet ...................................    35
T.3   FG Income Statement ................................    36
T.4   FG Source and Application of Funds Statement .......   37
T.5   Large-size Ranch Development Plan ....           ..............    38
T.6   Medium-size Ranch Development Plan ....          .............    39
T.7   Small-size Farm Development Plan ....           ...............    40
T.8   Main Project Investment Items and Foreign Exchange
Component ......................................    41
T.9   Project Cash Flow ..................................    42
T.10  Economic Analysis Calculations .....................    43
2.  Agricultural Credit and Services .......................    44
3.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   49
MAP    IBRD No. 15491



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR 1/
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Agriculture and livestock activities dominate the Paraguayan
economy and will likely continue to do so for the near future, basically
bebcause of the country's sizable farming and ranching potential and the fact
that the development of its only other known physical resource -- the huge
hydroelectric potential of the Parana river -- has only started recently.
Out of a total area of some 46 million ha, some 8 million ha are estimated to
be suitable for crop production, of which only 1.6 million are currently in
cI'ops. In addition, there are an estimated 33 million ha considered to be
suited to ranching of which about 16 million ha are currently in pastures and
some 22 million ha are in forests.
1.02      The agricultural sector accounts for over 30% of the GDP and
eniploys over 50% of the labor force (1978).   Furthermore, 60% of the value
adLded in industry is derived from processing agricultural products and 95% of
export earnings comes from agricultural products in various stages of process-
irng. Livestock products have accounted, on an average, for about 14% of total
country exports over the period 1975-78.
1.03      Agricultural development has been a most important component
of economic growth in the 1970s. A rise in external demand and favor-
able prices were instrumental in accelerating agricultural growth from
about 2.5% per annum between 1962 and 1972 to over 7% between 1972 and
1978. Producers' prices rose along with international ones as the country has
a free price system, which has enabled it to avoid distortions. The effective
supply response of the Paraguayan agricultural sector reflects the ample
potential of productive land and the Government's consistent efforts to
improve the sector's productive capacity through improvements in transport
(mainly roads) and implementation of a number of programs, such as livestock
and crop credit and technical assistance projects, designed to increase and
diversify agricultural production and exports.
B. General Characteristics
Main Agricultural Regions
1.04      The Paraguay River divides the country into two distinct
regions: the flat and poorly drained Western Region, or Chaco, with
high temperatures and relatively low and variable rainfall (from 400 to
1/   Additional sector information is given in the Bank's Economic
Memorandum on Paraguay, Report No. 2461-PA, dated May 1979.



-2-
700 mm per year), and the more humid Eastern Region, with generally well
distributed rainfall of about 1,500 mm per year and flat to rolling topography.
The Chaco, the southern portion of which is subject to recurrent droughts and
comprises about 60% of the country (247,000 km2), is sparsely populated and
covered with semi-arid tropical forest and rangeland, which, under present
conditions, is suitable for little else than extensive cattle raising. In
contrast, the Eastern Region, covering about 40% of the country (160,000 km2),
contains about 90% of the total population, produces almost all the crops and
timber, and supports about 60% of the natíonal cattle herd. It also contains
almost all of the 6 to 7 million ha of unexploited lands which are considered
suitable for crop production (Map IBRD No. 15491).
Land Tenure
1.05      Land distribution in Paraguay is uneven and reflects the pronounced
differences in the natural endowment and land use of the Eastern and Western
Regions and the incipient infrastructure development in the peripheral regions
of the country. Of the about 165,000 farms (160,000 in the Eastern Region and
5,000 in the Chaco), an estimated 4% have more than 100 ha and 61% less than
10 ha.  Some 60% of the farms under 10 ha are located south of Asuncion in the
"minífundia" zone, which covers less than 4% of the country. About two-thirds
of the larger holdings are located in the Chaco and one-third in the Eastern
Region. Most are devoted to extensive ranching or forestry because of
poor natural endowment and/or lack of market accessibility resulting from poor
infrastructure.
1.06      To cope with the problem of "minifundismo" (farms of about 5 ha or
less) and to extend the agricultural frontier, the Government enacted an
Agrarian Statute in 1962 and established in 1963 the Institute for Rural
Welfare (IBR) as an autonomous agency under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (MAG) to deal with all aspects of land tenure, land reform and
settlement. The Agrarian Statute makes provision for: (a) the expropriation
of portions of holdings exceeding 10,000 ha in the Eastern Region and 20,000 ha
in the Chaco on which the value of permanent improvements is less than 50%
of the land value; (b) the prevention of further fragmentation of minifundia
farms and their amalgamation into viable units; (c) colonization on both
public and private land; and (d) regularization of leasing and share-cropping
arrangements and of the position of land occupants without land titles
("squatters").
Crop Production
1.07      Crop production is concentrated in the central part of the Eastern
Region which provides about half of the country's crop output. Other important
crop-producing areas are Itapua, Concepcion-San Pedro and Alto Parana. The
use of fertilizers and insecticides is still low despite substantial increases
during the last 10 years. It is estimated that only about 10% of the farmers
apply about 10,000 tons of fertilizers annually, mainly for vegetables and, to
a much lesser extent, for tobacco and soybeans.



1..08     Annual crops account for about two-thirds of the cultivated area,
the remainder being shared between permanent crops and improved pastures.
Commodities which had the most dynamic growth between 1972 and 1978 were
soybeans (180% increase in quantity), cotton (160%), tobacco (70%), maize
(50%), and rice (26%).  The output of other crops appears to have remained
niore or less static.
C. Livestock Production
lleef Production
L.09      Rangeland covers about 17 million ha, of which 60% are in the
Chaco and 40% in the Eastern Region. Ranch sizes vary significantly. About 1%
of all ranches have more than 750 cattle per ranch and control about 55% of
lhe country's cattle population, while 90% have less than 50 head and own only
about 25% of the country's cattle. About three-quarters of the livestock
producers owning less than 20 head of cattle are also engaged in crop farming.
L.10      Beef production is carried out almost exclusively as an extensive,
Low cost/low productivity system based on producing steers and cull cows on
natural rangeland with minimum investments. Since 1963, however, increased
Einancial assistance has strengthened the industry by providing credit for
ranch development. Traditionally, most ranches combine breeding and fatten-
ing, but in recent years some degree of specialization has taken place and an
Lncreasing number of feeder steers are being sold to the higher rainfall
areas in the Eastern Region from the Chaco for finishing.
1.11      Livestock productivity is low, mainly because of extensive management
mnethods and poor nutrition, particularly in the Chaco, where pastures are
subject to floods and droughts. As a result, heifers are usually not mated
before the age of 3.0 to 3.5 years, steers are marketed at 3.5 to 4.5 years at
.an average liveweight of only about 400 kg, average extraction rates are not
more than about 15%, and weaning rates range as low as 35% to 50%. While low
weaning rates in the Eastern Region are largely attributed to low intake of
minerals, the low rates in the Chaco seem to be due mainly to poor management
snd the presence of screw-worms, causing high calf mortality. However, with
,good soil and good management, a few ranchers reach weaning rates of up to
70%, which proves that output can be increased substantially.
1.12      According to sample surveys conducted by MAG, cattle population,
-vhich in 1970 was of the order of 4.3 million, has continually increased over
the following seven years, reaching an estimated 6.2 million head in 1979,
which would represent an average yearly herd growth of about 5%. Slaughterings
during the same period have been estimated to range between 0.5 and 0.6
inillion head per year. In 1979, the registered production of slaughtered beef
was of the order of 120,000 tons, of which 91% was consumed locally and 9% was
exported. The export of live cattle mainly to Brazil gained importance during
recent years but because of the unregistered nature of this trade, its extent
is not known. Rough estimates put the live export level at about 150,000
head in 1979.



-4-
Dairy Production
1.13      Milk production, which was around 85,000 tons in 1970, reached
157,000 tons in 1979 and relies heavily on purchased feed concentrates.
Dairying is being expanded around Ciudad Presidente Stroessner and Encarnacion
for fresh milk and around Filadelfia in the Chaco for cheese production. Milk
is produced mainly on farms of less than 50 ha and about 70% of dairy farms
have less than 25 milk cows. Pure-bred dairy cows (usually Holstein-Friesian)
produce about 2,000 liters of milk per year, while "criollo" cows yield around
350 liters per year and cross-breds, 800 to 1,200 liters. Despite relatively
good prices for milk, production is growing slowly and is not keeping pace
with domestic demand, mainly because of the high cost of concentrate feed and
poor management at the farm level and gross inefficiency in the dairy process-
ing industry and the milk distribution system. As a result the domestic
demand is satisfied to a substantial extent by imported milk products and in
the areas bordering Brazil by imports of processed milk. However, the
Mennonite colonies in the Chaco have developed a cheap milk production system
based on "Buffel" grass pasture, hay and silage, using little or no concentrate
feed and are developing domestic markets for dairy by-products such as cheese,
butter and yogurt.
Pig Production
1.14      With few exceptions, pig production is carried out by small farmers
as a subsidiary activity. In 1979, close to 1.3 million pigs were slaughtered
and pork production reached 130,000 tons of carcass weight. Pigs are generally
marketed at 100 to 150 kg liveweight. Semi-extensive raising methods prevail
since concentrate feed is costly. In the colonization area around Ciudad
Presidente Stroessner, many mixed crop/livestock farmers are producing pork
with home grown corn, manioc and soybeans. Most marketed pigs are lard type
due to genetic make up and the feeding of unbalanced rations.
Poultry Production
1.15      About 20% of poultry production is accounted for by commercial
enterprises, with 10,000 to 20,000 birds each. Total annual production, which
was around 2,200 tons in 1972, increased to 3,600 tons in 1979. Main producing
areas are the Mennonite and Japanese colonies and poultry farms around Asuncion.
D. Marketing of Agricultural Products
General
1.16      In general, the market for agricultural products in Paraguay is
free of restrictive Government regulations, and prices are largely estab-
lished by supply and demand. In the absence of any significant concentration
among market agents, competition is strong except in isolated areas with poor
infrastructure. Wheat is the sole product for which the Government guarantees
a producer price and there are certain regulations, albeit of only limited
effectiveness, to establish a maximum consumer price for milk and a minimum
farmgate price for cotton. Given the open economy, the domestic market is
highly influenced by market conditions abroad, particularly in Argentina and
Brazil, and domestic prices generally follow the movement of world prices.



-5-
Marketing of Crops
1.17      Farmers sell their products mainly to intermediaries and, to
a lesser extent, through cooperatives to wholesalers. Intermediaries,
usually merchants or truckers, purchase farm products within their localities
anid frequently use secondary agents to contact farmers in their area. They
are mostly small-scale operators with limited operating capital and handling
and processing know-how and generally with only rudimentary storage facilities.
A few cooperatives and groups of farmers, organized relatively recently to
obtain agricultural services and to improve marketing, have succeeded in
selling their produce directly to wholesalers, exporters or retailers.
1.18      There is a strong export demand for soybeians and cotton fiber.
Exports of soybeans increased from 12,000 tons in 1971 to 334,000 tons
in 1979, and cotton fiber exports from 2,900 tons i.n 1971 to about 77,000 tons
in 1979. Production of tobacco and maize for exports and of food crops for
domestic consumption has also increased in recent years and meets the growing
domestic demand.
Marketing of Livestock Products
1.19      There is free movement of livestock from the producers to the
abattoirs or meat packing plants as Government cont:rols are limited to sanitary
inspection of slaughtering facilities and to tax collection. The internal
marketing system for beef is reasonably adequate arid includes an increasing
nuamber of auction sales firms. Existing problems limiting its effectiveness
relate mainly to difficult transportation conditions (especially from the
Chaco to Asuncion).  To increase market transparency and to facilitate the
d-evelopment of specialized breeding and fattening operations, cattle auction
markets have been established in Asuncion and in the interior. Cattle for
export are slaughtered in specialized packing plants and those for domestic
consumption, in about 50 municipal abattoirs and some private slaughtering
facilities belonging to groups of farmers or cooperatives. Together these
process about 90% of total meat production.
1.20      The demand for livestock products is variable and subject to
numerous internal and external factors. Beef demand and thus prices have
remained relatively high in recent years due to increased internal consumption
and export of live cattle to Brazil. The recent decrease in registered export
of beef from about one-third of the total production in the early 1970s to
insignificant amounts at present is apparently due to the relatively high
internal prices and inefficiency in the operation of the export slaughterhouses
resulting in high costs and poor export marketing practices. Additionally,
transportation costs to sea ports and Government export tariffs add to the
reduced competitiveness of Paraguayan beef exports in the international
markets. Demand for pork products is still greater than the amount marketed
in the country. At the same time there continues an unregistered export of
live hogs to Brazil at an undetermined rate. Producers will be required to
change the type of pig produced from lard to meat type if increased production
is to be absorbed by the consumers of fresh pork and the processing industry.
In the case of poultry and eggs, supply is still short of demand and both
enter Paraguay from Brazil in a largely uncontrolled way.



- 6 -
1.21      The marketing system for pigs, poultry and dairy products is
little developed, largely because of the small quantities which enter commer-
cial channels. The overwhelming part of production is for on-farm consump-
tion or is sold by the producer directly to the consumer. There are about
half a dozen mainly small plants which absorb a small fraction of the total
production and provide the domestic market with pig meat products. Although
milk production has grown considerably, the increase has not been sufficient
to satisfy local demand, and around 3,000 tons of powdered milk, equivalent to
about 10% of milk consumption, have been imported annually during recent
years. There are four dairy plants with a daily capacity of 50,000 liters.
However, the two largest, located in Asuncion, have practically ceased to
operate because of competition from the raw milk marketing system and from
powdered milk imports and as a result of a small domestic market for processed
milk and organizational as well as technical problems in the plants.
E. Agricultural Taxation
1.22      Agriculture is subject to mainly two types of direct taxes: a land
tax and a tax on the transfer of cattle. In addition, a large number of
taxes, tariffs and levies affect the sector indirectly. There is no income
tax in Paraguay.
1.23      The land tax, to be paid by the owners of all private agricultural
properties, corresponds to 1% of the land value as established periodically
by the Assessment Office for properties of up to 5,000 ha in the Eastern
Region and of up to 10,000 ha in the Chaco. Larger units pay a supplement
which increases with the acreage in excess of these ceilings from about
0.1% to 0.5%. Although delayed adjustment in the assessment values and
substantial increases in land values during recent years have reduced the
effectiveness of this tax, the fiscal income from this source is nevertheless
substantial, corresponding to about 2% of Government's total revenues.
1.24      A tax of 0 1,000 per head, substituting for an agricultural
income tax, is imposed on the transfer of cattle. Some 60% of the revenues
collected through this tax benefits the central Government (equivalent to
2% of its total fiscal income), 10% benefits the municipalities, and 30%
ís used to finance the National Animal Health Service (SENACSA).
1.25      Agricultural inputs and products are free from sales taxes.
However, there are taxes on the slaughter of animals for domestic consumption
and export and on sales of hides and, more importantly, substantial taxes and
levies on imports and exports relevant to agriculture. Taxes and duties on
imports of agriculture products which are produced in the country range
between 50% and 100% of their FOB value, and import taxes and charges for
agricultural inputs generally vary between 20% and 80%. Agricultural export
taxes, including custom duties, range generally between 5% and 15% of their
FOB value. Although the collection rate for these taxes and levies might be
low as a result of the openness of the country's borders, the effect on
production cost and international competitiveness of agricultural exports is
significant.



F. Agricultural Services
1.26      MAG ís responsible for agricultural policy, research, animal
health extension, and agricultural education at the pre university level.
The Faculties of Agronomy and of Veterinary Sciences of the University of
Asuncion provide professional level training and conduct a limited amount of
research. The National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Service (SEAG)
ccllaborates with the National Development Bank (BNF) in credit planning and
supervision and provides technical assistance to medium- and small-scale
producers. Additional technical assistance is provided by the three public
credit institutions, the Livestock Fund (FG), BNF, and the Small Farmer Credit
Agency (CAH).  Agricultural credit is provided by BNF, CAH, FG and to a limited
extent by private banks. A summary of agricultural sector lending is given in
Annex 1, Table 1. Further details related to agricultural services provided in
Paraguay are given in Annex 2.
G. Sector Policies and Bank Lending Strategy
General Policies
1.27      The Government's National Development Plan stresses the need to
achieve high rates of growth of output and employment, improve income distri-
bution, promote the development of human resources and the rational management
and conservation of natural resources. The strategy to achieve these objec-
t:ives consists of a continuation of past polícies aimed at promoting export
growth and diversification, fostering agroindustrial development, and promoting
irnport substitution activities where Paraguay's limited, but growing, market
s:Lze permlts.
1.28      Especially important has been the Government's policy of letting the
market mechanism and private initiative play a predominant role in the alloca-
tion of resources, which has favored the development of production in agricul-
tural products for which the country enjoys cotparative advantages, i.e.,
l:ivestock products and export crops such as cotton and soybeans. Future
growth is expected to follow recent patterns and would thus depend mainly
oii continued expansion of acreage under cultivation and some intensification
o: crops and livestock production systems.
Bank Sector Lending Strategy
1.29      The Bank's agricultural lending strategy emphasizes assistance
to sustain and broaden the growth process which began in the past decade.
To this end, the Bank would seek to: (a) expand the area under agricultural
production; (b) increase agricultural productivity; (c) diversify pro-
duction; (d) increase agricultural exports; (e) improve income distri-
bution; (f) protect natural resources; and (g) strengthen agricultural
institutions.



1.30      During the 1960s IDA/Bank agricultural lending focused on live-
stock production development and on building a viable livestock credit
institution on account of this subsector's importance for the country's
economy and its export earnings. During this period, three credits and one
livestock loan were provided to agriculture for a total of US$20 million.
Over the last decade, the IDA/Bank agricultural lending placed, in addition,
increasing emphasis on assisting small farmers, improving income distribu-
tion and diversifying the production structure. Under the Fourth Livestock
Project in 1974 (Loan 1037-PA), for the first time, a portion of the funds
(14%) were earmarked for small-scale livestock producers and under the Agri-
cultural and Livestock Development Project in 1979 (Loan 1674-PA) this share
increased to about 67%. During this same period, IDA/Bank financed two rural
development projects (Credit 509-PA in 1974 and Loan 1418-PA in 1977) which
benefited exclusively small farmers. Thus, while in the 1960s and early 1970s,
virtually all of the IDA/Bank agricultural lending was to larger producers,
the percentage of funds provided for small producers through the agricultural
Bank loans since 1974 has increased to about 77% of total lending to the
sector. The proposed project, while primarily oriented toward production
development, aims also at providing a substantial part of the loan funds to
small-scale producers.
II. THE PROJECT EXECUTING INSTITUTION/FONDO GANADERO
Background
2.01      Under the first two livestock projects (1963-69), partially financed
with IDA credits (47-PA and 86-PA), the Central Bank (CB) was responsible for
the administration of project funds, and operations were implemented making
use of banking and technical services provided by BNF. In September 1969,
in conformity with stipulations agreed to under the third project financed
partially with an IDA credit (156-PA) and a Bank loan (620-PA), FG was estab-
lished as an independent unit of CB to administer the funds of the three
projects, and, at the same time, BNF established a Livestock Project Division
to take care of operational tasks, mainly the appraisal of new subloans and
the supervision of outstanding loans made under the three projects. In 1975,
under the Fourth Livestock Project (partially financed by Bank Loan 1037-PA),
FG was given full legal and administrative autonomy and was authorized to employ
its own technical and administrative personnel, most of whom were transferred
from BNF's Livestock Project Division when it was dissolved.
Organízation and Management
2.02      FG is managed by a coordinating committee consisting of a
senior staff member of CB as President, a senior staff member from BNF,
and FG's Technical Director. Its headquarters in Asuncion includes an
Administrative and a Technical Department, a Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit, and a Technical Assistance Unit, newly created under the on-going
Livestock and Agricultural Development Project (para 2.10). There are
three branch offices, one each in Concepcion, San Ignacio, and Ciudad
Presidente Stroessner. These offices, each staffed by three to four
technicians, were established in order to provide credit and technical



- 9 -
services more efficiently.  The headquarters, however, retained the main
adrainistrative functions such as credit approvals and collections,
monitoring and evaluation as well as supervision of sub-borrowers in
the Chaco and other regions not covered by the branch offices. The
number of subloans processed by branch offices increased from 91 in
1975 (24% of total number of subloans) to 302 in 1978 (52%), revealing
a substantial decentralization effort. FG has a staff of 74, including
24 technicians (veterinarians and agronomists) in the central office,
12 in the regional branches, and two in the FG demonstration ranch in
the Chaco.
Financial Performance
2.03      Tables 2 - 4 in Annex 1 present the historical and projected
(1977-85) Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Source and Application of Funds
Statement. These financial statements indicate that FG has a sound financial
position, despite a temporary cash shortfall during 1979 caused by a rapid
increase in loan demand. FG had assets amounting to more than US$50 million
and equity amounting to US$13 million in 1979. The debt/equity ratio has been
satisfactory, averaging around 3.7/1.0 over the past. three years. FG's
sources of funds have been IDA/Bank (US$36 million, or 71% of total assets
in 1979) and its own equity (US$13 million, or 36% of total assets), which
increased through accumulated surpluses and adjustments on the indexed
subloans under the last two projects. FG has traditionally enjoyed a high
level of profits, amounting to US$1.7 million in 1979, and its equally high
level of net income, 3.9% on average loan portfolio, was achieved by low
financial costs (3.1%), partly from IDA soft terms under the first three
projects, and, to a greater extent, a very low level of administrative costs
(1.8%).
2.04      Under the third and fourth projects, FG was obliged to bear the
foreign exchange risks of the Bank loans on behalf of the Government. The
outstanding Bank loans of these projects have been re-evaluated each year,
using the on-going exchange rates and FG's obligation to the Government
has been adjusted accordingly. FG's obligation to the Government increased by
US$2.3 million in 1978 due to the adjustment. Since this arrangement imposed
excessive financial burdens on FG, the Government assumes the foreign exchange
risks under the on-going 1674-PA project and charges FG a comnimssion of
0.5%. Annual adjustments of outstanding subloan amounts based on CPI, under
the 1037-PA and 1674-PA projects, are not shown in income statements but were
made directly in the balance sheet.
Lending Policies
2.05      Loans were traditionally directed to large ranchers, but efforts have
been made to reach small-scale farmers under the 1037-PA and 1674-PA projects.
The proportion of subloans extended to small-scale farmers increased from
15% under the 1037-PA project to 30% under the 1674-PA project. Bank-financed
subloans cover up to 75% of the investment for larger farmers and 90% for
small-scale farmers. Subloans are repayable over a maximum of 12 years,



- 10 -
including a grace period of up to four years, and were to bear an interest
rate of 6% in real terms, adjusted annually on the basis of the general CPI
published by CB. FG has, ín practice, not adjusted outstanding subloan
principal to the full extent of inflation, but charged higher interest rates
(10% under 1037-PA and 11% plus 2% commission under 1674-PA) on the partially
adjusted principal. This arrangement brought about an effective interest rate
of 6% in real terms until 1978, when the rates of inflation were around 10%.
However, the sharp inflation rate increase in 1979 (29%) caused FG interest
rates to become negative in real terms since the adjustment of principal was
only 12%, despite the nominal interest rate of 11% and 2% commissíon.
2.06      FG finances purchases of feeder steers and retention of breeding
stock through complementary loans wíth the proceeds of roll-over funds from
previous Bank/IDA-financed livestock projects. These loans have a repayment
period of up to five years, including a grace period of up to three years at
12% interest, plus a 4% commission. All loans are secured by a land mortgage
and/or a chattel mortgage, conservatively estimated and valued at roughly
twice the face value of loans.
Lending Operations
2.07      Lending procedures are well established and familiar to FG's
technícians. FG has made a special effort in credit promotion among small-
scale farmers which was quite effective. Disbursements are made in several
installments and physical ínspections are conducted before each installment is
advanced to make sure that the loan funds were used for the purpose intended.
Investment plans are developed for all loans at appraisal, including cash flow
projections and rate of return calculations. Although several deficiencies
were detected in the investment analysis, improvements have been made by
several consultants hired by FG and UNDP Technical Assistance Project PAR/79/002.
During 1979, FG financed 866 loans, amounting to US$17.5 million. This included
186 complementary loans, amounting to US$3.2 million.
2.08      Debt Collection Performance.  FG is known for its vigorous efforts
and discipline in collecting debts and has traditionally enjoyed an excellent
collection record. As shown below, the debt collection ratio has been higher
than 90% and reached 96% in 1979:
FG's Debt Collection Performance
Debt Service                 Debt
Year                          Due         Collected      Collection Ratio
-----(O million) -----     ------(%)-…
1975                          467.8          449.1              96
1976                          476.5          432.6              91
1977                          797.2          724.3              91
1978                          948.1          887.0              94
1979                          998.3          958.3              96



- 11 -
2.09      Accounts and Audits.  Records and basic accounts are well maintained
On all borrowers for each line of credit. A daily balance sheet is prepared
arnd sent to the Superintendency of Banks under CB's jurisdiction. With the
r¿ipid ínerease in number of borrowers, FG would need to develop a computer
system to increase its efficiency in accounting, and it is envisaged that the
UNDP Technical Assistance Project (para 2.10) would finance consultants in the
computer field. Accounts are audited by the Superintendency of Banks annually.
The quality and coverage of the reports have been improving and are now
considered satisfactory.
Technical Impact
2,10      In earlier projects, FG has maintained a policy of minimum cost
operation and for this reason had given low priority to technical assistance.
In the fifth project, however, there has been considerable improvement in this
activity through the requirement that large- and medium-scale producers hire
private consultants to assist them in raising productivity. Through a project
financed by Loan 1674-PA and UNDP (PAR 79/002), FG established a Technical
Assistance Unit staffed with one long-term (three years) expatriate consultant
aind a local staff of four technicians. The activity of this unit would be
expanded under the proposed project.
2.11      FG established a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit under the fourth
project which has been strengthened under the on-going project (para 3.04)
A similar activity is contemplated for the proposed project.
III. PREVIOUS BANK/IDA FINANCING OF AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS
Livestock Projects
3.01      Since 1963, the Bank Group has granted six credits and loans,
totalling US$42 million, to help finance five livestock projects with a
total cost of about US$75.5 million. The first four projects have been
completed and the fifth, a component of the on-going Livestock and Agricul-
tural Development Project (Loan 1674-PA), is fully committed, with full
disbursement expected by the end of June 1981.
3.02      Farm development plans under the first three projects were made
for 1,350 large ranches and three cooperatives with a combined total of 234
mrembers. An area of nearly 10 million ha (about two-thirds of the country's
area), carrying about 2.5 million cattle (about half of the national cattle
herd), is controlled by farmers/ranchers participating in the three projects
and some 90,000 ha of pasture were improved, mainly in the Eastern Region. The
average size of subloans has been about US$20,000 for each of the farm develop-
mrent plan. Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) 1991 for the Third Livestock
Project, dated March 28, 1978, indicates, however, that increases in beef
production and in productivity probably fell short of the projections made at
appraisal, with weaning rates of about 50% instead of 70% as expected, basícally
because of (a) inefficient ranch management, reflecting absentee ownership and
remoteness of many ranches; (b) inadequate technical assistance to sub-borrowers;
and (c) to a lesser degree, failure to promote tropical legumes as the basis
fOr improved pestures.



- 12 -
3.03      The Fourth Livestock Project, Bank Loan 1037-PA (US$10.0 million),
continued to support long-term investments by large ranches in basic ínfra-
structure, pasture improvement and purchase of improved breeding stock,
but it earmarked 14% of total subloan proceeds for small livestock farms
operating individually or as cooperatives. Altogether, 670 large ranches,
190 individual small farms and 360 cooperative small farms received sub-
loans under the project. The Project Completion Report for the Fourth Live-
stock Project, dated September 15, 1980, indicates that better progress was
achieved in improving production and productivity than in earlier projects and
that weaníng rates were up to about 63% in the Chaco and 52% in the eastern
parts of the country (para 3.02). Increased production of beef due to the project
at full development was estimated at 56,000 tons liveweight as compared to about
28,000 at appraisal. There were also indications that many of the producers, with
an additional loan under the Fourth Livestock Project, were able to utilize
infrastructure developed under previous project loans to increase productivity.
3.04      The Fifth Livestock Project was partially financed with US$12.3
million allocated from the proceeds of Bank loan 1674-PA, which became effec-
tive in November 1979.  This project continued to finance long-term investments
needed by beef ranches, mainly basic infrastructure, pasture improvement and
purchase of breeding cattle, and some 30% of the lending program was earmarked
to finance small-scale farmers operating dairy or mixed crop/livestock farms.
As of July 30, 1980, 253 large- and medium-size farms, 492 individual small
farms and some 500 small-scale farmers who were members of two cooperatives in
the Chaco region benefited from project subloans that totaled about US$14
million. Sixty-six percent of lending was for beef production, 4% for dairy
and 30% for mixed producers with either poultry or swine as a livestock
component. FG has continuoúsly upgraded its technical and administrative
performance under the successive IDA/Bank projects, but there is still room
for improvement. In the Fourth Livestock Project, the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit was established, however; the quality of data collected for the
completion report of 1037-PA was poor, especially for the without-project
situation, and there was no methodical monitoring of ranches during the life
of the project. In the fifth project, a random sample, representing 15% of
the sub-borrowers was selected at loan approval and a follow-up visit was
made to verify the pre-project data. Subsequently, an evaluation of progress
is being made for each of the sample farms at six-month intervals.  Technical
assistance to small farms under the Fifth Livestock Project has improved with
the establishment of an extension unit (para 2.10), but investment planning
for all sizes of sub-borrowers is still weak.
Small-Scale Farmers' Credit and Rural Development Projects
3.05      The Bank Group, besides financing the five livestock projects
mentioned, has also provided US$50.7 million in four other loans to carry
out credit, marketing, and rural development projects in Paraguay, with the
greatest part of the funds benefiting small-scale farmers.  The first of these
loans (US$5.0 million) was made in 1951 to support the import of agricultural
supplies and farm tools and equipment; the second, IDA Credit 509-PA (US$11.0
million), which became effective in April 1975, financed a US$15.8 million
Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project along the East-West Highway;



- 13 -
the third, Loan 1418-PA (US$22.0 million), is supporting a US$42.8 million
Second Rural Development Project, co-financed by the Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KFW) and UNDP, in the southeastern part of the Itapua Depart-
ment; and the fourth, Loan 1674-PA (US$25 míllion), was made in 1979 to
fitnance, in addition to the Fifth Livestock Project (US$12.7 million), a
credít component (US$8 million) for about 3,000 subloans to farmers operating
small crop farms (10 to 20 ha); a feeder roads component (US$1.6 million); an
extension and technical assistance component (US$0.8 million); a component
(US$1.0 million) for the completion of a wholesale market in Asuncion; aud
a component for partial financing of an agricultural census (US$0.4 million).
3.06      It is too early to determine the impact of the three projects
under implementation since 1975, but so far they seem to be succeeding
in meeting their principal objectives, albeit with substantial coordination
problems and implementation delays with the exception of the livestock
component of Loan 1674-PA.
IV. TRE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      The Government of Paraguay has requested a loan from the Bank
to help finance the continuation of its livestock development program,
an effort with which the Bank has been closely associated for more than
15 years. The proposed project would be a follow-up to four previous
beef cattle development projects partially financed by IDA and the Bank
and of the livestock component of the on-going Agricultural and Livestock
Development Project (1674-PA), which became effective in November 1979.
The proposed project was prepared by FG, wíth Bank assistance.
B. Project Concept and Composition
4.02      The main objectives of the project would be to increase live-
stock production and productivíty and strengthen the country's balance of
payments. At the same time, the project would aim at increasing FG's credit
and technical assistance activities for small-scale farmers' livestock and
mixed farm enterprises and at strengthening FG's capability to meet the needs
of such farmers. The project would consist mainly of a countrywide agricul-
tural credit and technical assistance program to be carried out over a three-
year period, aimed at developing livestock (beef, dairy, swine, and poultry)
production in general and, in the case of smaller farmers, at increasing
production of agricultural crops, mainly soybeans and cotton, when they are
part of a mixed farming operation. The major investments to be financed under
the project for medium- and large-scale producers would be cultivated pastures,
water supply and breeding stock, while land clearing and preparation, farm
equípment, and planting material would be the most important items for small-
scale producers. The project would also finance the incremental costs of
strengthening the extension unit (TA) of FG.



- 14 -
4.03       Project beneficiaries would be agricultural producers, operating
rainfed farms either as individuals or as members of cooperatives or similar
forms of associations. For the purpose of project financing, the farms would
be classified under three categories as follows:
(a) Large-size Ranch: A beef producíng ranch of more than
2,500 ha.
(b)  Medium-size Farm:  A specialized beef producing farm
ranging in size from 250 to 2,500 ha, a mixed livestock/
crop farm of more than 80 ha, or any other enterprise
requiring an investment loan of more than US$30,000.
(c)  Small-size Farm:  A specialized beef producing farm of
not more than 250 ha, a mixed livestock/crop farm of not
more than 80 ha, or any other agricultural enterprise (e.g.,
daíry, pork, poultry) requiring an investment loan of not
more than US$30,000.
4.04      Forty-five percent (US$21.8 million) of the lending program (US$48.5
millíon) would be earmarked for subloans to small-scale producers. The
project is expected to benefit some 1,920 producers, over 73% of whom would be
in the small-scale producer category, some 20% ín the medium-scale producer
category, and 7% in the large-scale producer category. FG would finance up to
90% of the on-farm ínvestment cost of small-scale producers, and up to 75% of
the ínvestment costs of farm plans of medium- and large-scale producers.
C. Detailed Features
4.05       The development approach used in prevíous Bank-financed projects on
a countrywide basis would be continued in the proposed project but emphasis
would be placed on lending to small mixed livestock/crop farms, medium-size
beef/livestock farms in the eastern part of the country, and more specialized
types of dairy, pork and poultry farms around Asuncion and Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner. The support for beef production would be aimed at increasing
productivity and production on: (a) large-scale extensive-type ranches, which,
in the case of the Western (Chaco) Region, for ecological reasons, is the only
viable way to utilize the relatively poor land and water resources available;
and (b) medium size ranches using semi-extensive ranching practices in the
Eastern Region. Under the different development patterns proposed, high
priority would be given to providing technical assistance to beneficiaries
during and after implementation of the investment program.
4.06      Two types of subloans would be financed for on-farm investments.
The first would be for comprehensive farm development investment projects,
whích would be prepared and appraised on the basis of detailed farm plans.
The majority of investments to be financed under the project would fall under
this type.  The second type would finance single inputs, which would be
"complementary investments" on viable farms that already possess most of the



- 15 -
assets necessary for normal operation but require additional investments to
complete, expand or modernize on-going farm operations. The single input
investments to be financed would mainly consist of farm machinery and equipment,
cattle handling facilities, breeding stock, land preparation and on-farm tracks
or roads. In particular, subloana for complementary ínvestments would be
rel.evant for small-scale farmers whose farm development investments have been
traditionally financed in stages rather than through one-time comprehensive
investment plans.
4.07      The wide range of actual farm development stages, environmental
conditions and the varying marketing opportunities also permit a wide range
of production possibilities and, hence, of investments that might be fínanced
un,der the proposed project. Therefore, the three farm models selected
(Chapter VI and Annex 1, Tables 5 - 7) are intended only to illustrate
national trends in farm development investments and probably also represent
the most profitable alternatives open to the different categories of ranchers/
farmers. The models are based on the livestock and cropping patterns and
technical coefficients described in Chapter VI. The investment plans pre-
sented in the models serve mainly to indicate the order of the rate of
return and provide the basis for project budgeting calculations.
4.08      The following table shows the estimated number of beneficiaries
and subloans and the average size investments and subloans for the three
categories of farms by types of investments:



Average                 Subloans                  On-farm Investments
Farm                             Farm                   Average      Total        Average     Total
Model     Category/Purpose       Size        Numíber     Size        Amount        Size        Investment
(ha)                   (US$)      (US$'000)    (US$)          (US'000)
Large-size Ranches 11
1.      Beef Production
Plans                  4,800         90       90,000       8,100      119.000        10.709
N.A.      Other Enterprises
and Complementary
Investments                          30      38,000        1,150       50,000         1,500
Subtotal                         120                    9,250                     12,200
Medium-size Farms 1/
2       Beef Production
Plans                    750        350       34,500      12,100       46,000        16,100
N.A.      Other Enterprises
and Complementary
Investments                          50       15,000          750      20,000         1,000
Subtotal                        400                   12,850                     17,100
Small-size Farms 1/
3.      Mixed Livestock/
Crop Plans                55      1,000       14,400      14,400       16,000        16,000
N.A,      Other Enterprises
and Complementary
Investments                         400        9,000       3,600       10,000         4,000
Subtotal                      1,400                   18,000o20,000
Total                         1920=                   40.,100                    429300 2/
1/   Rainfed farms/ranches.
2/   Baseline cost, exclusive of about US$10.7 million for price contingency.



- 17 -
D. Project Cost
4,09       Total project cost, including price contingency, is estimated
at: US$60 million equivalent (including taxes amounting to about US$6 million),
of which about US$30 million, or 50%, represents foreign exchange costs.
Project costs have been estimated on the basís of June/July 1980 prices plus
22% over the baseline cost (US$49.3 million) to compensate for expected price
increases over an estimated four-year investment period. The expected price
íncrease was calculated assuming that: (a) input prices would increase annually
by about 8% over the baseline costs expressed in US dollars; (b) the project
would become effective by about July/August 1981; and (c) investments would
be carried out at a rate of US$13.3 million (27%) during the first year of
project execution, US$16.2 million (33%) during the second year, US$15.8
million (32%) during the third year, and US$4.0 million during the fourth
year. The following table summarizes the project cost estimates by main
category of sub-borrowers:
Foreign
Type of Farms 11                    Local       Foreign    Total       Exchange
--------US$ million -------    Percentage
Small-size Farms                     9.5         10.5       20.0           52
Medium-size Farms                    8.9          8.2       17.1           48
Large-size Ranches                   6.3          5.9       12.2           48
Price Contingency                    5.3          5.4       10.7           50
Total                         30.0         30.0       60.0            50
1/   Details on investment items are given in Annex 1, Table 8.
E. Financing of Project Costs
4L.10      Financing of the project costs would be shared by the sub-borrowers,
FG and the Bank as shown below:
Category                         Sub-borrowers      FG      Bank       Total
----------------- US$ million ---------
I.arge-size Ranches                   3.3          3.7       6.0       13.0
Medium-size Farms                     4.8          5.5       9.0       19.3
Small-size Farms                      2.4          8.3      13.5       24.2
Unallocated                           1.O          1.0       1.5        3.5
Total                           11.5         18.5      30.0      60.0
Percentage                     20%           30%       50%        100%
4.11       The proposed Bank loan of US$30 million (50%) would finance the
entire foreign exchange cost of the project, including the price contingency.



- 18 -
The Government, through FG, would finance US$18.5 million (30%), and project
beneficiaries (sub-borrowers) would finance the balance of about US$11.5
million (20%). The Government would be the borrower and would carry the
exchange risk. The Bank loan would be made for a term of 17 years, in-
cluding four years of grace, at the interest rate prevailing at the time of
loan approval.  The amounts recovered by FG corresponding to the payment of
principal, interest and commission, made by project beneficiaries, after deduc-
tion therefrom of the amounts paid or to be paid by FG to the Government and
the expenses attributable to the administration of the project, would be used
exclusively for further lending for agricultural development in the country.
4.12      A minimum of US$13.5 million, or 45% of the loan amount, would be
allocated initially to the small-size farms category (para 4.03). Not later
than 18 months after loan effectiveness, the borrower and the Bank jointly
would review the status of commitments for subloans and the efforts of FG to
increase its lending to small-size farmers to determine if the amount allo-
cated should remain at 45% or be increased or reduced within a ceiling of
five percentage points.
F. Procurement
4.13      The investment items to be financed through project subloans would
be procured by about 1,900 project sub-borrowers over a four-year period;
therefore, bulk procurement through international competitive bidding would
not be suitable. In most cases, works such as land clearing; pasture estab-
lishment; fencing; and construction of watering, stock handling and storage
facilities would be undertaken by the sub-borrowers themselves or by local
contractors. Other investment items such as fertilizers, machinery and
equipment would be procured at the sub-borrowers' choice from local, estab-
lished agents, who represent a broad spectrum of international and domestic
suppliers. There are no foreign exchange or other types of restrictions on
the importation of any of the items financed under the project.
G. Disbursements
4.14      The Bank would disburse, over a period of about four years, 62% of
the amounts previously disbursed by FG for project subloans to project benefi-
ciaries for a total of US$30 million. The Bank would reimburse FG for project
subloans made against statements of expenditures. The documentation for the
expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by FG
for review during the course of Bank supervision missions. Past experience
indicates that FG maintains adequate documentation to satisfy Bank requirements.
4.15      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements is as follows:
Bank FY              1982            1983            1984            1985
FY Semester         1 - 2           1 - 2           1 - 2           1 - 2
Disbursement        ------------------ US$ million -------------------
During Semester    3   7            8   4           3   3            1   1
Cumulative             10          18  22          25  28          29  30



- 19 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01      As under the last two Bank-financed livestock projects, FG (para
2.01) would be the executing agency. It would administer the financial
resources of the project and would be the exclusive agency for the execution
of the credit and technical assistance programs for small-scale farmers,
ccntemplated under the project. Specifically, FG would (a) assist ranchers
and farmers in the preparation of investment plans and the formulation of
subloan applications; (b) appraise subloan applications; (c) evaluate goods
offered as collateral; (d) disburse subloan proceeds; (e) perform subloan
supervision; (f) collect interest and principal of subloans made; and (g)
monitor project progress.
B. Technical Assistance
5.02      FG's Technical Assistance Unit, established under the on-going
project (para 2.10), would provide, free of cost, technical assistance to
s'aall-scale farmers. As for other beneficiaries, FG would continue enforcing
its established policy requiring sub-borrowers to have proven technical
ability to carry out their proposed development investments, or, in the
absence of such ability, to contract the services of private consultants
es a condition of subloan approval. Whenever such technical assistance is
required, this cost could be financed by project subloans.
5.03      One agronomist would be assigned to assist the mixed crop/livestock
farmers to be financed in the area of Ciudad Presidente Stroessner in order to
improve extention services to these producers. With this addition and the
technical assistance program provided under Bank Loan 1674-PA, 1/ all aspects
of technical assistance under the project would be satisfactory. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that FG would hire a qualified and experienced
agronomist to work at its Ciudad Presidente Stroessner office to assist the
mixed crop/livestock farmers to be fínanced under the project.
1/   The program (January 1980 to June 1984), which is jointly financed by
the Bank and UNDP, provides 24 man-months of short-term consultant
services, 16 man-months of scholarships abroad, three man-years of a
consultant for FG's Technical Assistance Unit, and the acquisition of 11
four-wheel drive vehicles.



- 20 -
C. Lending Procedures and Conditions
Government Lending to FG
5.04      The borrower would assume the foreign exchange risk on loan repay-
ment (para 4.11) and would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to FG on
terms similar to those of the Bank loan except that the interest rate would
be 0.5% above the rate of the IBRD loan to compensate the foreign exchange
risk borne by the Government. An assurance to this effect was obtained at
negotiations. The amounts so lent by the Government to FG would be used
exclusively to partially finance (62%) the project subloans made by FG to
project beneficiaries.
Subloan Appraisal and Approval
5.05      Subloan applications for comprehensive on-farm investment plans
would be approved by FG on the basis of their technical, financial and
managerial viability. An assurance on this was obtained at negotíations.
The appraisal of such farm plans would include the assessment of the sub-
borrower's ability to implement the investment program, the review or calcula-
tion of the proposed investments, income and expenditure estimates, cash
flow projections, and the financial rate of return on the investment. Subloan
applications for single input complementary investments (para 4.06) would
be appraised and approved on the basis of simple cash flow projections
to determine the merits of the proposed investments.
Subloan  Coverage of Investments and Terms
5.06      Subloans made by FG to project beneficiaries would finance up
to 90% of the cost of the proposed investment plans of farmers in the small-
size farm category and up to 75% in the case of other project beneficiaries.
An assurance on this was obtained at negotiatíons. In both cases, the Bank
would reimburse 62% of the amounts disbursed by FG. The project subloans
would have repayment terms up to a maximum of 12 years, including grace
periods of up to four years. Repayment and grace period terms would be
established for each subloan on the basis of the requirements of cash flow
projections of the investment plans to be financed.
Ceilings under Subloans
5.07      No subloan made under the project to any individual project benefi-
ciary (except cooperatives) would exceed 0 18 million (US$143,000) adjusted
for inflation on the basis of the variation of the CPI from June 30, 1980.
The purchase of breeding stock included in the on-ranch/farm investment plans
financed under the project would not exceed the equivalent of 50% of the total
cost of the investment plans. Assurances on these points were obtained at
negotíations.
Interest Rates and Indexing of Subloans
5.08      FG vwoul, -wit1n eZB's approvaX, charge project beneficiaries interest
and commissions over outstanding balances of subloans at a total annual rate



- 21 -
of 18%. Separately, FG would charge a one-time fee, satisfactory to the
Bank, for technical and administrative costs related to the preparation
arid supervision of sub-projects. A fee equivalent to 4% of the amount
of the subloans to small-size farmers and of 6% for the subloan8 to other
farmers would be used for the initial stage of Project. Except as the
Bank, in consultation with FG, shall otherwise agree, FG would review once
a year and, if necessary, modify the interest and commission charges on
new subloans so that they would, in the aggregate, equal the average
variation of the CPI for the preceding calendar year. The first review
would be conducted before March 1, 1982, and any revision would be
iTaplemented by March 1 of each year. Assurances on these terms were
obtained at negotiations.
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
5.09      Lending procedures, terms and conditions between the Government
and FG and those between FG and project beneficiaries, as specified in the
previous paragraphs (5.04 to 5.08), would be incorporated into a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into by the Government and FG. The execution
of such a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
D. Accounting and Auditing
5.10      As in previous operations, separate project accounts, records and
documentation pertaining to transactions financed under the project would be
kept by FG. Financial accounts of FG, project accounts and related financial
statements, e.g., statements of expenditures utilized by FG to claim reim-
bursements from the Bank, would be audited annually, in accordance with
generally accepted standards, by independent auditors, satisfactory to the
Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts, together with the report of
the auditors, would be sent to the Bank not later than four months after the
close of each fiscal year (December 31). Assurances on this were obtained
from the Government at negotiations.
E. Monitoring, Progress Reports and Evaluation
5.11      FG's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would monitor the progress
of the project and evaluate the impact of the investments and technical
assistance provided under the project. The unit would carry out its tasks,
making use of background information related to all the individual beneficia-
ries financed under the project, supplemented with an analysis of productivity
and financial data collected on the basis of representative sample surveys
of farms financed under the project. The information assembled and analyzed
would be provided to FG management and the Bank in the semi-annual Progress
Reports. FG would also submit to the Bank a draft Project Completion Report
no later than six months after project investments had been completed.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations on these points.



- 22 -
VI.  PRODUCTION PATTERNS AND TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
A. Production Patterns
General
6.01      The contemplated livestock development would take place throughout
the country and thus encounter wide variations in climate, soíls, infrastruc-
ture facilities, input supply and markets. Three farm/ranch models intended
to illustrate typical existing and potential development patterns have been
prepared. These models as well as the technical coefficients given in
the following paragraphs have been worked out on the basis of evidence
provided by field visits during project preparation and appraisal, data
obtained in the completion report for the fourth Bank-financed livestock
project and further estimates made by FG's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
However, as indicated in paragraph 4.07, the models at best reflect only
national trends in farm development investments and should not be considered
as rigid guidelines for project implementation.
6.02      Large-size Beef Ranch (Annex 1, Table 5).  This model is
representative of beef ranches in the Chaco region. Its 4,800-ha size
represents the average size of Chaco ranches financed under the Fifth
Livestock Project. Typically, these are ranches where beef cattle are
raised under extensive production practices with some improvements (in
most cases financed under previous FG projects) in subdivision of pastures,
establishment of improved pastures and water facilities, and disease
prevention and control. The level of management, in general, is relatively
low and, thus, technical assistance is required to improve management
practices. The project would finance such technical assistance by private
consultants, additional infrastructure to increase productivity on the area
under pastures, and the purchase of additional breeding cattle to utilize
the increased carrying capacity of the ranch.
6.03      Medium-size Beef Ranches (Annex 1, Table 6).  The typical medium-size
beef ranch is located in Eastern Paraguay and has usually less than 1,000 ha,
with about 25% of the unit covered with natural forest. The production
system is somewhat more intensive than in the Chaco and includes breeding as
well as fattening of home produced and purchased steers. The investment items
proposed are fencing, water facilities, pasture establishment, livestock
working facilities, and breeding stock.  The rancher would purchase young
steers with his own funds or with short-term credit provided by FG. In
contrast to the Chaco producer, the owner of the medium.-size ranch is usually
the resident manager.
Farm Models
6.04      Small-size Mixed Farms (Annex 1, Table 7).  These production
units are located in the central eastern and southern parts of Paraguay.
While a few of the farms would produce basically beef cattle and some might
have specialized dairy production, the majority would have a mixed production



- 23 -
system where crop farming (mainly soybeans or cotton) is the primary activity,
with livestock (swine, poultry or dairy cattle) as a secondary enterpríse,
which provides for diversification of income as well as labor and land
use. In some of the areas with uneven topography, the inclusion of lívestock
in the production program can assíst in a decrease in soil erosion through the
use of strip farming, leaving certain areas in permanent forage. The producer
is frequently an immigrant from Brazil who arrives in the area with sufficient
capital to purchase 25 to 50 ha of land, build a rustic house and swine
holding facilities, and deforest a portion of the land by hand for agricul-
tural use. Generally, these producers have good entrepreneurial skills
and, with an injection of capital, are able to make rapid increases in produc-
tion and earnings. The investment proposed would allow for the mechanization
of the crop land, either with animal or machine power, through the mechanical
destumping of previously deforested land, the construction of improved animal
holding facilities, installation of a water system, and purchase of breeding
stock (swine in the case of the model, but this could also be dairy cattle or
cl1ickens). Family labor would be utilized to the maximum and additional
workers would be hired as required.
B. Technical Coefficients
6.05      Technical coefficients used for the without project (WP) and at
full development (FD) of the project farm models are given below:
Model 1          Model II         Model III
4,800 ha          750-ha            55 ha
Beef Ranch        Beef Ranch        Míxed Farm
WP      FD        WP      FD        WP       FD
Weaning rate                 %       50       62       45       60        70      87
Adult mortality rate         %        3        2         3       2         2       2
Offtake rate                 %       13       25       21       35        10      29
Cow culling rate             %       10       20        10      20         0      20
Stocking rate             AU/ha    .75         1       .85       1      n.a.    n.a.
Pigs weaned per litter       No.                                           6       8
I,itters per sow per year   No.                                          1.3     1.8
Pigs weaned per litter      No.                                          5.5       7
Production per hectare
Soybeans                kg                                        1,700   2,200
Corn                    kg                                        1,700   3,000
Mandioca                kg                                       18,000  18,000
Cotton                  kg                                          -      1,800



- 24 -
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Production
7.01      Annual production of the farms participating in the project would
be approximately as follows:
Incremental
Production
Without    With Project at       Incremental    as % of 1978/79
Commodity   Project    Full Development    Production         Nat. Production
…--------…(1,000 tons)-……-----------    ------()------
Beef 1/        19.4            53.9              34.4                10
Pork            0.3             3.9               3.6                 4
Soybeans       13.6            33.0              19.4                 4
Corn            5.1            21.0              15.9                 3
Cotton           -              5.4               5.4                 2
1/   Liveweight.
7.02      At full development, the value of the aggregate incremental output
due to the project would, in terms of 1980 farmgate prices, amount to about
US$37 million and the incremental herd value would correspond to US$38 million.
B. Markets
Beef
7.03      Paraguay cattle slaughter oscillates around 600,000 head per year of
which about one-third was exported and two-thirds consumed domestically during
the 1960s and the early 1970s. Since then the share of exports, both carcass
and live animal, has apparently declined to around 20%, mainly due to increased
domestic consumption and restricted access to, as well as reduced competitive-
ness in, traditional overseas high price markets. In addition to the decline
in the exported share of the livestock production and in the absolute amounts
exported, there has been a clear change in the structure of exports from
predominantly processed beef exports to the USA and Europe to non-registered
exports of live cattle to neighboring countries, mainly Brazil. Because of
the relatively high internal beef price and attractive live cattle prices in
Brazil, the export slaughterhouses cannot compete for cattle in the internal
and the live export market. In addition to the high cost of cattle, the
inefficiency of the slaughterhouses, due partially to low volume and high



- 25 -
operating and transport costs, does not allow themn to successfully sell in the
traditional export markets for processed beef. As a result, the export of
processed beef has dropped to negligible amounts, and the export slaughterhouses
find themselves ín an extraordínarily difficult financíal position.  The export
structure could reverse itself if one or a combinaLtion of the determining
factors would change, such as an increase in world market prices, a decrease
íLn domestic beef price levels, higher efficiency in the meat processing
industry, and a cruzeiro/guarani exchange rate that made líve exports to Brazil
less attractive.
7.04      The incremental beef production under the project, under present
inarket and price conditions, would be mainly absorbed by the domestic market
and the remainder would be exported on the hoof, raainly to Brazil. If market
prospects in that country should deteriorate because of significant cruzeiro
devaluation or as a result of administrative import control by Brazil, downward
pressure on the domestic beef price could be expected, which would eventually
enable the export slaughterhouses to re-enter the export market for processed
beef. In any case, the incremental beef production would find a safe market
either internally or outside the country and the exportable surplus of the
country would be increased by an amount corresponding to the project's addi-
tional production.
Pork
7.05      Pork production has been increasing steadily over the last decade
responding to a strong internal demand and also to demand from Brazil.  The
demand, however, is not fully met and some 25 processing plants (of which six
are bigger, producing a wide variety of subproducts) are working below capacity
due to inadequate supply of pork of the desired qualíty. The incremental
project production should therefore find a receptive market, mainly internally,
but, to some extent, also in Brazil assuming that there is a change in the
type of pig produced (para 1.20).
Crops
7.06      From among the main crops expected to be produced under the project,
soybean and cotton would, according to historical production and export
trends find ready markets outside the country. Also, the increased avail-
ability of private and public marketing infrastructure would facilitate
the increased exports. Corn would be used internally as feed in the pig
industry, which has been growing at a rate that would ensure absorption of
incremental amounts produced under the project.
C. Prices
7.07      According to MAG statistics, farmgate prices for the commodities
expected to be produced under the project developed over the last decade
are as follows:



- 26 -
1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
--------------------- …'000 per ton -----------------
Beef 1/ Current          33      46     52      44      42      47     51      71
Constant 2/   106    108        93     68      64      67     64      71
Pork 1/ Current          38      51     63      58      52      66     70      75
Constant 2/   122    118    112        90      79      93     88      75
Soybeans  Current        11      22     20      18      20      21     21      30
Constant 2/  35       51     36      28      31     30      26      30
Corn    Current           7       9     11      10      11      10     11      14
Constant 2/    21       21      20     15      17      14      14     14
Cotton  Current          21      22     36      27      44      46     43      42
Constant 2/    67       51     64      42      67      65      53     42
Source:  Bulletin Informativo, MAG.
1/   Beef and pork prices per ton liveweight.
2/   Current prices deflated by wholesale price index base 1979.
7.08      Although pertinent agricultural prices have been increasing in
nominal terms, there has been a decline in constant prices and in the general
terms of trade of agriculture during the past years. However, productivity
gains obtainable by improved production technologies keep agricultural invest-
ments attractive as evidenced by the strong credit demand both for livestock
and crop production. Compared to the 1979 price levels indicated above,
soybean and corn prices for mid-1980 have been slightly lower and the prices
of beef, pork and cotton have been rising above the 1979 levels. Price
projections made by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections Division
suggest continuous favorable price developments for the products relevant
to the project, with increases between 25% and 50% in real terms up to 1990.
Only beef prices are expected to drop in the mid-1980s, but should recuperate
strongly by 1990.
D. Producer Benefits
7.09      Producer benefits were analyzed on the basis of illustrative farm
models, which are shown in Annex 1, Tables 5 to 7. The technical assumptions
for these models are given in Chapter VI. The financíal assumptions under-
lying the models reflect the input (investment and operating expenditure)
and output prices at the farmgate of mid-1980, adjusted in the case of beef,
cotton, maize and soybean to reflect changes in real prices as projected by
the Commodities and Export Projections Division of the Bank. Base product
prices used in the models are given below. These were obtained in the field
and differ somewhat from the official data given in paragraph 7.07, which
are not considered to reflect accurately prices received by the farmers.



- 27 -
Livestock                     Average Weight         Price/kg        Príce/Animal
(kg)              (US$)             (US$)
CuLl Bulls                          550              0.80               440
Cutl Cows                           340              0.74               250
St,eers                             400              0.80               320
Heifer                              260              0.69               180
Pig                                  85              0.95                81
Crops
Cotton                                               0.35
Manioc                                               0.04
Maize                                                0.08
Soybean                                              0.16
Rates of Return
7.10      Producer benefits in 1980 prices and the financial rates of return
tc the sub-borrowers are summarized in the following table.
Large-size    Medium-size    Large-size
Farm           Farm            Farm
------------ = --(us$)-
Average Farm Size (ha)                     4,800              750              55
Investment Cost                          119,000           46,000         16,000
Net Income Before Debt Service
Before Development                   19,200           3,600           2,400
At Full Development 2/
-Without Project 3/                  40,900           9,000           3,900
-With Project                       149,100          53,600          11,700
Relative Increase (%)                   265              496            200
Debt Service 4/                            23,300           9,000          3,800
Net Income After Debt Service 41          125,800          44,600           7,900
Tax on Cattle Sale 4/                       5,200           2,500              60
Financial Rate of Return (%)                   23              28              39
1/   Family labor is excluded from operating cost to calculate the net income
for small-scale farmers.
2/   Full development would be reached in year 10.
_?   2he difference between net incomes at before development and at full
development without project is due to the real price changes in commodity
prices.
4/   At full development with project.



- 28 -
The resulting financial rates of return on investment for comprehensive
farm development programs, ranging from 23% for large-size farms to 39% for
small farms, indicate that it would be profitable for ranchers and farmers to
undertake the proposed investment. The strong demand for FG's agricultural
credit also suggests the profitability of these investments. The rates of
return on complementary and other enterprise investments are expected to be in
line with those for on-farm development.
Sensitivity Tests
7.11      Sensitivity tests for each farm model to analyze the impact of
changes in prices and/or quantities of inputs and outputs on the financial
viability of the proposed investments indicate that (a) the proposed invest-
ments are more sensitive to output and product price fluctuations than other
factors, and (b) the small-size farm development component is, in general,
more sensitive than other development components. The proposed investments
would remain financially attractive within the limits of unfavorable develop-
ments regarding output, prices, investments and operating costs shown below:
Sensitivity Analysis
Operating
Component                   Benefits            Investment           Costs
____ __________________ (% ) _ - - --- -- -- - -- - -- ---
Large-size Ranches            -42                 +215              +110
Small-size Farms              -21                 +192             + 31
Medium-size Farms             -31                 +247              + 55
E. Project Cash Flow
7.12      The estimated project cash flow of the agricultural lending program
handled by FG is given in Table 9 in Annex 1. The underlying assumptions on
the project cash flows are that: (a) FG would charge a 20% effective interest
rate on outstanding balances; (b) FG's administrative expenses, including
operating costs of extension service, are 2% of the outstanding subloan
balance; and (c) Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan
at 0.5% above the Bank interest rate with the same repayment period. The
calculations indicate that the margins allowed to FG would be sufficient, not
only to cover administrative and financial costs, but also, during the 18-year
period, until the loan ís repaid, to accumulate net earnings amounting to
US$39.0 million.



- 29 -
VIII.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
8.01      The proposed project would help Paraguay to better utilize its
agricultural resources to increase agricultural production, productivity,
employment and income, as well as foreign exchange earnings. It would
also expand the agricultural frontier by clearing some 18,000 ha of land
in the Eastern Region on recently established small-size farms and facilitate
specialization of the country's livestock industry in breeding and fattening.
8.02      The value of the incremental annual production at full develop-
ment, excluding the build-up of the livestock herd, would correspond to
about US$37 million in 1980 farmgate prices, of which 41% (US$15 million)
is estimated to constitute exports (66%, beef; 21%, soybean; and 13%, cotton).
Additional employment per year at full development would be equivalent to
approximately 3,000 man-years. The annual net farm income after debt service
ís expected to increase from US$2,400 to US$11,700 for the small-size farms,
from US$3,600 to US$53,600 for the medium-size farms, and from US$19,200 to
IIS$149,100 for the large-size farms. The number of direct project benefi-
ciaries would be about 1,920, of which 73% (1,400) are classified as small-
scale farmers wíth an average per capita income of approximately US$400, i.e.,
less than half of the national average. It is estimated that about a third
of these small-scale farmers, or about 25% of the project's total number of
beneficiaries, might belong to the relative poverty group. Therefore, the
project would also contribute to a more equitable distribution of income.
B. Economic Rates of Return
8.03      The economic rates of return of the project were calculated sep-
arately for each project farm model, as shown in Annex 1, Table 10, on the
following basis:
(a)  investment and operating costs were calculated using
mid-1980 prices and were assumed to remain constant in
real terms; labor costs were evaluated at the on-going
rates since rural unemployment is practically non-
existent in the project area;
(b)  prices used to estimate economic benefíts were mid-1980
farmgate prices, which are in line with economic values
of commodities to be produced under the project; prices
for beef, cotton, maize and soybean were adjusted to
reflect changes in real prices according to the projections
made by the Bank's Commodities and Export Projections
Division;



- 30 -
(c)  deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties;
(d)  incremental herd values were credited to the project at
the end of the project period;
(e)  costs of administration, including extension service costs,
were charged to the project; and
(f)  costs and benefits were estimated only for the three
components with comprehensive on-farm investment plans;
complementary and other enterprise investments are
expected to have similar economic viability.
8.04      Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
is estimated at 32%. The economic rates of return and the aggregate net
present values, over a 20-year period discounted at 12% 1/, on individual
project components are estimated as follows: small-size farm development, 44%
and US$25 million; medium-size farm development, 31% and US$33 million; and
large-size farm development, 26% and US$20 million.
C. Sensitivity Analysis
8.05      The fiscal revenues generated through the import and sales tax on
project inputs and the sales and export taxes and charges on project outputs
are estimated at about US$6 million during the investment period of the
project and at about US$2.3 million annually at full development, assuming
that the existing tax regulations are maintained and enforced.
8.06      The sensitivity of the project components' economic viability,
shown below, indicates that the project would continue to have a satisfactory
economic rate of return (of the order of 12%) 1/ if one of the three following
situations occurred: (a) prices or production (benefits) decreased by 31%;
(b) investment cost increased by 260%; and (c) operating cost increased by
54%. The table below indicates that the small-size farm investment program
is more sensitive and risky than other investments and, thus, requires a
cautious approach.
Operating
Component                 Benefits         Investment            Costs
…__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  %   …-- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - - -
Large-size Ranches           -46              +266              +128
Small-size Farms             -22              +220               +32
Medium-size Farms            -34              +296               +63
Total Project     -31              +260               +54
1/   Assumed opportunity cost of capital.



- 31 -
D.  Project Risks
8.07      There are risks associated with the project, which affect the
various project components. At present, the exports of beef depend almost
entirely on the Brazil live cattle market. If this market should become
inaccessible because of import controls or because of a decrease in the value
ot the cruzeiro versus the guarani, substantial pressure on the domestic beef
price level would develop and prices might drop by about 10% to 20%, i.e., a
level at which the domestic slaughterhouse industry expects to become competi-
tive again in the international market for processed beef. Such a development
would particularly reduce the   attractiveness of the medium-size and large-size
farm investment programs without, however, affecting their financial or
economic viability (paras 7.04 and 8.06).
8.08      In addition to these market and price uncertainties for the beef
production component, there is a certain element of risk associated with the
small-scale farmer component. The farming system to be developed is fairly
intensive and requires a level of management skill that is still limited. In
the case of pig producers a change in genetic make up and nutrition of swine
is also required to meet market standards. Although a technical assistance
component has been included, farmers will have to be closely monitored so that
they do not become bad credit risks, especially in the light of the relatively
high sensitivity of the proposed investment program to a reduction of benefits
(paras 7.05 and 8.06).
E. Impact on Environment
8.09      No detrimental effects on the environment are expected as a result
c,f the proposed project. The establishment of improved pastures would actually
reduce wind erosion in the Chaco and provide similar protection against water
erosion in those parts of the Eastern Region where pasture rather than crops
replace natural forest. The expansion of crop production would, to some extent,
increase the potential for erosion but, considering that this would take place
in mixed farming systems with a rotation between crops and pastures and in an
area of flat to undulating topography, the actual effects on erosion should be
considered acceptable. In addition, FG would, through its extension service,
ensure that steeper slopes and riverine areas are not deforested; that strip
planting, alternating annuals with permanent crops, is encouraged; and that
tertilizers and pesticides are used carefully.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) FG would assign a qualified and experienced agronomist
to work at its Ciudad Presidente Stroessnér office
(para 5.03);



- 32
(b) the borrower would assume the foreign exchange risk on
loan repayment and would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan
to FG on terms similar to those of the Bank loan (para 5.04);
(c) subloan applications for on-farm comprehensive investment
plans would be approved by FG on the basis of their
technical, financial and managerial viability (para 5.05);
(d) subloans made by FG to project beneficiaries would finance
up to 90% of the cost of the proposed investment plans
of farmers in the small-size farm category and up to 75%
ín the case of other project beneficiaries (para 5.06);
(e) no subloan made under the project to any individual project
beneficiary (except cooperatives) would exceed 0 18 million
(US$143,000) adjusted for inflation on the basis of the
variation of the CPI from June 30, 1980 (para 5.07);
(f) the purchase of breeding stock included in the on-ranch/
farm investment plans financed under the project would not
exceed the equivalent of 50% of the total cost of the
investment plans (para 5.07);
(g) FG would: (i) with CB's approval, establish a rate of
interest plus comnission of 18% over outstanding subloan
balances; not later than March 1 each year, FG would review
the total rate and would modify or maintain such rate on new
subloans in order to obtain a rate which in the aggregate would
be equal to the average variation of the CPI for the preceding
calendar year. Separately, FG would charge a one-time fee,
satisfactory to the Bank, for technical and administrative
costs related to the preparation and supervision of subprojects;
this fee would, initially, be 4% for the small-scale producers
and 6% for the other sub-borrowers (para 5.08);
(h) FG accounts and separate project accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank,
and certified copies of the audited accounts, together with
the report of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank not later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year (para
5.10); and
(i) FG would submit to the Bank semi-annual Progress Reports and a
draft Project Completion Report, the latter no later than síx
months after project investments had been completed (para
5.11).



- 33 -
9.02      A condition of effectiveness of the loan would be the execution
of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and FG, satisfactory
to the Bank, and incorporating the lending terms and conditions specified
i,n paragraphs 5.04 to 5.08 (para 5.09).
9.03      With the above assurances and condition, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Paraguay
for US$30 million on the terms and conditions outlined in paragraph 4.11.
April 7, 1981



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Credit to the Agricultural Sector
(Average Annual Lending 1978/1979)
(US$ million)
BUF                 FG                 CAH             Private Banks               Total
Amount       %      Amount       %_      Amount        %      Amount       %         Amount        %
Medium/LOng-term
Credit                   23.8        42%      10.6       80%        0.2        8%        -         -           34.6       27%
Short-term  Credit           32.9       58%       2.6       20%         1.5       92%      57.0      100%         94.0       73%         ,;
Total                 56.7      100%      13.2       100%        1.7      100%      57.0       100%       128.6       100%
Lending to Smail                                                                                lt
Farmers                  28.4       50%        2.4       18%        1.7       -          5.7-      10%         38.4       30%
Lending to Other
Beneficiaries            28.3        50%      10.8       82%         -       100%       51.3       90%        90.2        70%
Total                 56.7      100%      13.2      100%         1.7      100%      57.0       100%       128.6      100%
/  MaiialY for cotton and soybean marketing financing through cooperatives
and other enterprises.
er z
SOURCE: Central Bank of Paraguay and Mission estimates.                                                                                - M
December 5, 1980



ANNEX 1
- 35 -                                                    Table 2
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FG BALANCE SHEET
(GUARANI MILLION>
CY1977    CY1978    CY1979    CY1980    CY1981    CY1982    CY1983    CY1984    CY1985
ASSETS
CASH AND BANKS                  350.2       228.4       41S       168.6      238.8       354,4      488,4      563.2       636.3
LOAN POR-,FOLIO
47-PA                          29.5        9.6         4,1          -           -          -          -           -          -
86-PA                         321.8      202.B        89.9       28.7       17.B         5.4           -          -          -
1568620-PA                  1,363.8   1,222,3   1,027.8         852,7      695.2      553,4       425.8      310.9      207.5
1037-PA                     1,801.7   2,237.7   2,398.6   2,602.0   29724.0   2r722.6   2,604,4   2,398.5   2,110.4
1674-PA                           -           -     733,5   2,477.5   2,991.1   39248,2   3,518.0   3,701.3   3,668.6
COMPLEMENTARY LOAN            858,5      975,9    1,099,9   1,172.7   1,065.0   1,344.0   1,818.0   2,146.0   2,276.0
FG LONG TERM LOAN                  -     374,1       876,7   1,154,5   1,374,9    1,511.7   1,601.4   2,885.9   5,049.3
NEW PRDJECT                        -          -          -          -   1,484.7   3,172,6   4,683,7   5,039.7   5,010.3
ÚTHERS                         25.4       19,3        13.5       13.5       13.5        13,5       13.5       13.5        13.5
SUBTOTAL                 4,400.7   5,041.7   6,244,0   8,301,6  10P366,2  12,571.4  14,664.8  16,495.8  18,335.6
OTHER ASSETS                      13.6       20.6       18.6       22.3       26,8        32,1       30,6        46.3       55.5
FIXED ASSETS
LA PATRIA                      58,0       58.7        76.1       90,9      107.0      124.5       143.5      164.1      186.4
EQUIPMENTS                     29,5       33.6        39.4       46.3       54,4       63.3        73.0       83.5       94.0
LAND O BUILDING                16.2       17.5        18,1       22.3       26.3        30,6       35.2       40.3       45.8
SUBTOTAL                    103.7      109,8      133,6       159.5      187.7      218.4      251.7       287.9      327.0
LESS ACCM DEPRECIATION       ( 12,6)   > 19.7>    ( 27.8)    ( 38.2)   ( 50.3>    ( 64.4)   > 80.3)   < 98.3)  ( 118.5)
NET VALUE                    91.1       90,1      105.8       121,3      137,4      154.0       171.4      189.6      208.5
TOTAL ASSETS                  4,855.6   5,380.8   6,409.9   8,613.8  10,769.2  13,111.9  15,363,2  17,294.9  19,235.9
LIABILIrIES AND EQUIPE
LIABILITIES
ACCT RECEIVABLE                21.7       36.1        46.8       58.6       71.5        85.7      101.4      118.6       137.6
LOAN OUTSTANDING
BCP ADVANCE                  35.2       20.0       166.4      486.4      486.4      '>86.4      246.4      166.4       66.4
47-PA                       522.6      517.1      511,6       506.1      500.6      495.1       484.2      467.8      451.4
86-PA                     1,117,2   1,105,8   1,094,4    1,083.0   1,071.6   1,060.2   1,048.8   1,037.4   1,026.0
156-PA                      641.8      641.8      638.6       632,2      625.8      619.4      613.0       606.6      600.2
620-PA                      541.8      601.4       547,6      548.0      550.6      555.4       561.8      569.7      579.2
1037-PA                     956.0   1,436.0   1,501.9   1,492.5   1,485.4   1,480.0   1,476.3   1,474.4   1,473.4
1674-PA                         -          -      276.7   1,331.6   1,554.8   1,554,8   1,493.1   1,369.7   1,246.3
NEW PROJECT                     -           -          -          -      920.4   1,967,0   2,903.9   3,124.7   3,124.7
SUSTOTAL               3,814.6   4,322.1   4,737.2   6,079.8   7,195.6   8,218.3   8,827.5   8,816.7   8,567.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES           3,836,3   4,358.2   4,784.0   6,138,4   7,267.1   8,304,0   8,928.9   8,935.3   8,705.2
EGUITY
GOVT CONTRIBUTION             164.6      164.9       165.2      165.2      165.2       165,2      165.2      165.2       165.2
LA PATRIA                          -        2.6        6.7        6.7         6.7        6,7        6.7        6.7         6.7
PROVISIONS                     32.9       32,9        32,9       32.9       32.9        32.9       32,9       32.9       32.9
RESERVES                      626.0       659.3   1,210.6   1,943.5   2,869.9   3,930.5  5252,7   69946.0   8P966.4
NET INCOME                    195.8      162,9       210.5      327.1      427,4       672.6      976.8   1,208.8   1,359.5
TOTAL EQUITY              1,019.3   1,022.6   1,625.9   2,475.4   3,502,1   4,807.9   6,434.3   8,359.6  10,S30,7
IOTAL LIAB 8 EQUITY           4,855,6   5,380.8   6,409.9   8,613.8  10,769.2  13,111.9  1,5363.2  17y294.9  19,235,9
March u, 1981



- 36 -                                                ANNEX 1
PARAGUAY                                               Table 3
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FO INCOME STATEMENT
(GUARANI MILLION)
CY1977    CY1978    CY1979    CY1980    CY1981    CY1982    CY1983    CY1984    £Y1985
OPERATING INCOME
INTEREST RECEIVED
47-PA                         10.9        3.7        1.4         - 
86-PA                         45.2       31.3      20.4        7.1        1.5         .5                     -
1561620-PA                   144.3     119.1      116.2      112.5      105.2       75.4       53.4       34.9       18.9
1037-PA                      101.4     138.8      183.9      234.9      259.7      271.9      271.7      259.9      239.3
1674-PA                          -          -         -       80.7      272.5      329.0      357.3      387.0      407.1
COMPLEMENTARY LOAN            65.9       98.6      94.6       87.5      106.6       90.9      142.5      161.3      172.8
FO LONG-TERM LOAN                -          -      41.4       92.2      117.3      140.1      154.2      163.4      280.2
NEW PROJECT                      -          -          -         -          -      297.0      634.5      936.7   1.008.0
SUBTOTAL                   367.7     391,5      457.9      614.9      862.8   1,204.8   1,613.6   1,943.2   2.126.3
OTHER COMMISSIONS               10.1       13.9       19.2      23.0       27.6       33.2       39.8       47.8       57.3
TOTAL OPER INCOME         377,8      405.4      477.1      637.9      890.4   1,238.0   1,653.4  1991.0   2Y183.6
FINANCIAL COST
INTEREST PAYMENT
47-PA                          4,0        3.9       3.9        3.8        3.8        3,8        3.7        3.6        3.5
66-PA                          8.4        8.3       S.3        8.2        8.1        8.0        7.9        7.9        7.7
156-PA                         4.8       4,8        4.8        4.8        4.7        4.7        4.6        4.6        4.5
620-PA                        33.1       38.1      37.5       37.1       36.2       35.3       34.3       33.2       32.1
1037-PA                       60.6     104.2      118.4      117.3      114.8      112.2      109.4      106.4      103.1
1674-PA                          -          -          -      22.1      128.5      128.5      128.5      123.6      113.7
NEW PROJECT                                                       -         -       92.1      196.7      290.4      312.5
SUBTOTAL                   110.9     159.3      172.9      193.3      296.1      384.6      485.1     569,7      577.1
DTHER CHARGES                    4.4        1.5         .3       5.6       35.8       27.1       11.6        1.7          -
TOTAL FINANCIAL COST      115.3      lb0.8      173.2      198.9      331.9      411.7     496,7      571.4      577.1
OPERATING COST
ADMINISTRATION                  24.1      24.3       29.8       33,4       37.4       41.9       46.9       52.5      58.8
PERSONNEL COST                  42.7      50.3       63.0       75,.6      90.7      108.9      130.6      156.8     188.1
LA PATRIA                        1.8       2.9         .1        1.6        1.8        2.0        2.2        2.4       2.6
DEPRECIATION                     4.7        7.6      10.1       12.8       15.0       17.5       20.1       23.0      26.2
TOTAL OPER COST            73.3       85.1      103.0      123.4      144.9      170.3     199.8      234.7      275.7
OPERATINO INCOME               189.2     159.5      200.9      315.6      413.6      656.0      956,9  1184.9   1.330.8
NON-OPERAT INCOME                6.6       3.4        9.6       11.5       13.8       16.6       19.9      23.9       28.7
NET INCOME                     195.8      162.9     210.5      327.1      427.4      672.6      976.8   1.208.8   1.359.5
March 6, 1981



- 37 -
F'.4RPBUPY                                                ANNIIY I
I.IVESTOCE DEVELOE109R 0JECT
SCURCES ANO APPLICATIONS OF FO FUNDS
(0UARANI MILLION)
CYt977    CY0798    CY1979    CY1980    CY1981    CY1982    CY1983    CYt984    CY0985
S0U9CES OF FUNDS
NEI INCONE                     195.8     162,9      210.5     327,1      427.4      672.6      976.   1,208.0  10359.5
DEPRECI0TION                     4.7       7.6       10.1       12.8      15.0       17.5       20.1      23.0       26.2
CASH FROM UPERATIU0         200.5      170.5      220.6     339.9      442.4      490.1     996.9   1.23t.0   1.385.7
LOAN RECEIVE1
BCP 4W49NCE                      -         -      146.4     320.0      320.D      320.0      80.0                     -
1037-P0                     364.9      236.7       656           -         -          -          - -
0674-0A                          -               26.7   1,054.0        223.2          -          -          -
4EM PRDJFCT             ____                                           920.4   1,046.6      936.9      220.E
SUBTOTAL                  364.9      236.7      468.7   1,374.9   1,463.6   1,366.6   1,016,9        220.8
s                                         O~~~~~~~~~~~~~THER LIABILITIES INCREASE
0CC0 RE9E3VBLE              14,4       14.4       10.7      1t.8       12.9       14.2       15.7      17.2       19.0
EYCH0NGE LOSS (620-PA)           -      59.6          -       14.3      17.1       19.9       22,9      25.5       28.4
EXCH00 EE *0 S5(1037-P4)         -     243,3       14.2      2105       25.7       20,6      34.1       38.4       42.5
SUBIOTAL                   14.4      317.3       24.9      69.6       55.7       64.0      72.6       Bl.1       89.9
E0U0TY INCREASE
1037-PP                    84.4      036.2     255.4      233.6      247.1     247.0      236.2      217.5      191.3
1674-P0                       -          -      20.0      225.9      274.6     299.1      324.9      341.2     333.8
FO LOAN                       -        4.3       77.0      93.9      020.,4     036.6     045.5      221.0      357.4
SUBTOTAL                 84.4      140,5     353.4      558.2      642.1     683.0      706,5      780.4     992.5
0THER                            -       2.3       S3_ _         -         -          -          -         -          -
SU8OT9AL                 84.4      143.3     407.0      558.2      642.1     603.0      706.5      780.4    982.5
60910414 900090900
47-PA                        69.1       19,9        5.5       4.1          -          -          -         -
86-PP                       129,5      119.0      112.9      61.2       10.9       12.4        5,4          -         -
156 8 620-06                121.A      141.5      194.5     125.0      052,5      041.8     027.6      114.9      163,4
1037-PA                      5294       8091      174.3      35.2      025.0      249.5     354.4      423.4      479.4
1674- A                                    -        1.0       6.2       30.2       42.0      55.0      158.2      366.5
COPLEMENT0RY LOAN          254.7      357.3      354.1     427.2      407.7      321.0     426.0      672.0      870.0
FO LONG TER0   LODN              -         -        1.4          -         -          -      55.8      136.9      094.0
NEW PROJECT                      -         -          -         -          -          -          -         -       29.4
14D  0EB00                     .6)       6.1        5.8           
SUBTOTAL                  632.7      731.9     949.9      709.0      731.2     765.7   1.024.2   1,505.4   2.042.7
SALES OF FIXE00 90TS
0OO0  0PLUE                     -         .7        2.5       3.0        3.6        4.3       5.2        6.2        7.5
LEOS  8CC9 DEPRECIATIA N         -      1 5)    ( 2.01      / 2,4)    ( 2,9)    1 3,40      ( 4.2)    ( 5.0)        6 6.0)
NET VALUE                      -        .2         .5         .6        .7         .9       1.0        1.2        1.5
DECREASE OF 0THER 900ET          1.9         -        2.0         -          -          -          -         -          -
TOTAL 80URCES           1,299.  1,599.9   1.993,6   3,030.2   3.335.7   3.570.3   3.BI9.1   7,820.7   4.402.3
APPLIC0TI0NS OF FUNDS
LOAN REPPY*NT
FCP  9DV4NCE                  6.2       15.2          -          -     3320.2     020.0     320.0       80.0      100.0
47-PP                         5.4        5.S        5.5       5,5        5.5        5.5       10.9      16.4       16.4
156-P4                       11,4       01,.4      00.1       00.44     11,44      11. 4     01.64      11. 4      01.4
056-0 A                                             3.2       6.4        6.4        0,4        6,4       6.4        0.4
620-PA-                                             4.6       13,9      14.5       05.1       16.4      07.6       189.
103PA                            -         -       13.9      30,9       32,0       35.3      37 B       40.3       43.5
1674 PA                                                          -         -          -      61,7      123.4      123.4
8U8TOTAL                   23.0       32.1       38.6      68.1      390.6      393.7     464.6      295.5      320.0
2THER LIBILITY DECRE0 SE           -          -      49.2          -          -         -          -          _ 
E0UI1Y DECRE09E                  1.3     302,9       14.2       35.8      42.9       49,9       56.9      63.9       70.9
SUDLOAN DIBBURSEMENT
1037-0A                     625.7      397,9       60.2         -          -
0176-P                           -         -      714.4   1,524.4      269.0 
COHPLEMENT9RY LOAN          276.0      474,7      478,1     500,0      300.0      600.0     900.0   I.ODO.9   1,000.0
F0 LDNS TER1   LON              -     360,0      426.1     194.0      190.0          -          -   1.200.9   2,200.9
NEW PROJECT                      -         -          -          - 1,484,7   1,687.9   1.51,1          356.9          -
0U69TT7L                  901.7   1,232.4   1,698.8   2,208.4   2,153.7   2,287.9   2,411.1   2,556.0   3,0000.
OTHER 1NC9E09E8 OF 400ET0
FIXED A40ET INVE8T           30.2        6.6       20.3      29.9       31.5       35.0      38.5       42.4       46.6
SU8LON ADJU8T0ENT            84.4     140.5      353.4     558.2      642.1      683.0      706.5     700.4      B82.5
010ER 9SSETS                     -       7,0          -        3,7       4.5        5.3        6.5       7.7        9.2
SUBT0T0L                  114.6      154.3     379.7      590.8      678.4      723.3     751.5      830.5      938.3
TOT L APPLICATIONS     1,040,6   1,721.7   2,180.5   2,903,1   3,265.5   3,454.7   3,684.1   3,745.9   4,329.2
C884 BAL9NCE
48NUPL 9PL0NCE0C40N INC1      258.2   1 121,8)  0 186.9)    127.1         70.2      115.6      134.0      74.9       73.1
C0JMULTV11E BL4NC0            350.2      228.4       41.5    18.6       238.6      354.4      488.4     563.2      636.3
-arch 6, 1931



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MOBEL 1 - 4,800 HA BEEF RANCN
Large-Size Ranch Development Plan
(US 0>
0       1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10      11       12       13      14       15       16      17       18       19      20  TOTALS
CASH FLOA ANALYSIS
CASB INFLW
SALES                       72740  100412   89388   93929  130502   91914  120019  129942  145624  138082  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389 3745634
SUBLOAN                          0   3263   25988         0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0  89250
TOTAL INFLOW              72740  163674  115376   93928  130502   91914  120019  128942  145624  138082  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239380 3834884
CASO OIJTFLOW
INESTNENT                        0   84350   34650         0       0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        Y       °        0        0 119000
OPERATINO COST              53577   64388   68537   72922   81113   81325   82954   85745   87293   86430   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241 1756938
DEBT SERVICE(P)                  0       0        0        0       0        0    5409    6497    7792    9344   11219   13459   16154   19376             0       0        0        0       0        0        0   89250
DEBT SERVICE(I)                  0       0   12653   17850   17850   17850   17850   16770   15467   13914   12040   9s00            7104    3802         0       0        0        0        0       0        0  163030
- - --   -- - -  --- - -  -- ----     -- - - - - - -   - --    - ------    -----_-_------    - -- - - - ---   -- - -   - ---    - ------   - - --   - -- --   - - --    - - - -   - - --   --- --   - ---   -- -- --
TOTAL 8OTFLOW             53577  148738  115839   90772   98963   99175  106213  109012  110551  109688  103500  113500  113500  113500   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241 2128218                     ,
CASO BALANCE                19163   14937    -464    3156   31539   -7261   13806   19929   35072   29194  125890  121890  125890  125890  149148  149148  149148  149140  149148  149148  149148 1706666
CU0ULATCASH BALANCE         19163   34100   33636   36792   68330   60069   74876   94805  129877  159071  284961  410850  536740  662629  811777  960926 1110074 1259222 1408370 1557518 1706666   IEOOS
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS
SALES                       72740  100412   89388   93928  130502   91914  120019  128942  145624  138802  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239389  239309  239389  239389  239389 3745634
OPERATINO COST              53577   64388   68537   72922   81113   81325   82954   85745   87293   86430   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241   90241 1756938
NEO BENEFIT W/ PROJECT   19163   36024   20851   21006   49389   10589   37065   43197   18331   52453  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148  149148 1988696
NET BENEFIT W/o PROJEC   19163   45425   31100   31100   31100    2310    2310    2310    2310    2310   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931   40931  619684
INOESTOENT COST                 O        O        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0
FENCINO                        0   14000        0       0        0        0       D        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0   14000
PASTORES                       0   17500   23500        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0   41000
ATER FACILITIES                0    9500        0       0        0        0 o              0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0    9500
EQUIPNENT                      0       0    3350        0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0    3350
CATTLE WRK FACILITY            0       0    7800        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0    7800
CONSTRUCTION                   0  6580          0       0        0       0        o        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0    6500
CATTLE                         0   36850        0       0        0        0       b        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0   368s
TOTAL INVESTNENT            0 84350   3450            0        0       0        o        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0        o  119000 
IACREMENTAL AET BENEFIT          0  -93751  -44899  -10095   18288    6279   34755   40887   56021   50142  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108217  108348 1250143   '
March 6, 1981



PARAGUY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
901(1 2 - 756 0 9A889E MI648
Medinm-Size Ranch D5evelopment Plan
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ------------- --A--  ------
U       1        2        3       4        5        A        7        U       9       lo       11       12       13       14       15       It       17       la      19       20 9O1ALS
CASA 94.8> 64A1S45
CASH 49918W
SALES                        35340   55554   60360   ¿¿152   96732   61575   50345  ¿6397   ¿7237   70004  122472  122472  122472  122472  422422  122472  122472  122472  122472  122472  1422472 19¿99U4
6U88099                          0  2429        9713        0       0        0        U        6       0        U        U        U        9        9        0        U        U        o        6       U        9  34516
1TOTA. I8919W              35346   80539   20023   ¿¿52   96232   ¿1575   59345   ¿0397   62232   20004  1212472  122472  122422  122472  122422  122472  122472  122472  122422  322472  122472 2693394
CASA 881919W
4AVESTME8T                       0  33505     42950        U        U        O        U       O        U        O        U        U        U        U        U        9        6       6        U        U        U   49000
9P8RA1I86 COST               31720   45744   54069   50174   60196   49121   49433   51662   52621   52940   ¿9905   ¿8885   ¿ORA5   ¿989S   6998S   ¿8995   ¿6885   68995   ¿9905   ¿9965   099  1264017
9E81 SERVIC8(P)                  U        U        U       U        U        6    2019    2512    3042    3612    4337    5203    6245    7490               U        U        9       U        U        6        U   34500
8E81 SE6V4CUD4                   0        0    4958    6900    ¿999    ¿9006¿900    6483    5979    5379    4654    3768                2746    1SOl         U        9       U        6        6        8        0   ¿3087
TOTAL 89U9F.08             317229   78794   71977   50564   67096   56021   59424   60057   ¿1612   61931   77870   77876   77876   77876   69885   ¿888S   ¿8695   689965   68985   69895    80995 1407¿03
CASA 8A1.ACE                  3620    4544   -1964       477   19030    5554        -79    -259    5625    9672   44596   44596   44596   44596   53587   53597   53597   53567   53597   53587   53597  595781
CUIRLAT1wE CASO BA1.A81.      3629    5104    3261    3739   23374   38928   28949   28599   34215   42297   86883  131490  176676  239672  274259  327646  381433  435020  499607  542194  595794 38622177
C8ST/888F41 9861.9041
641.8                        35340   5555    60360   ¿¿152   86732   01575   59345   ¿9397   07237   76694  122472  122472  12.2472  422472  422472  122472  122472  122472  122472  322472  122472 496094
998R6T489 COST               31729   45744   54069   58774   60196   49121   49433   54662   52021   52949   6899  885   6              9895   ¿8885    69895 68 05 8885   ¿9995   ¿9995   ¿9885   68805   ¿9095 1264017
881 889F94  9/ PRIJECI    3626    9007    6291    7377   26526   12454    8942    8735   141¿4   17663   535987   53587   53587   53587   53597   53587   53507   53587   53587   53587   53597  704009
8ET 8688F41 A/O 90936C    3620   19165    6569    ¿568    ¿569    -542    -542    -542    -542    -542    8995    8995    8995    9995    0995    6995    9995    0995    0995    999                        6995  129676
INAES51E88  COST                 0        9        0        U       0        9        0        0        0       13       6        6        9        9        9        0        9        9        U       9         0        0
888C498                        0    5360         0        9       0        6        6        9        0       U        6        6        0        0        0        6        6        0        0       0        0    5366
P851UR8S                       6416500  4916              9       9        U        9        6        9       U        9        9        9        9        9        9        0        9        9        U        9  205900
WATER FACILITIES               0  3654           U        U       U        6        9        9        0       9        9        0        9        9        9        0        o        9        6       9        0    3659
CATILE W9986FCILI99            6    7666         0        0       0        9        0        6        0       9        6        0        0        6        9        6        0        0        6        6        0    7600
CATT1E                         9        0    9950         9       U        U        9        6        0       9        0        9        9        0        9        6        9        9        3        9        9    8950
TOTAL 4N985188AT             0  33050   12950           U       9        0        8       9        O        9        0        9        0        0        U        0        9        9       9                 6460900
I8CREM6NTA1. 881 8E8EFI9         U  -33148  -13227       91o   19908   12995    9453    9276   15157   47605   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   44592   57692  542298  9 
March 0, 1981



PARAGUJAY
LIVESIIOCI< DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A0EL 3 - 55 HlA 1110ED FARA
Small-Size Farm Development Plan
cUS 8>
0        1        2         3        4         5        6         7        8         9       10        11       12        13        14       15        16        17       la        19       2801815AL
C6114 FLOW AHALYSIS
CAS IAFLOW
SALES                           4592   12488   18327    22518   22462   23233   22975   23584   23603   23872   26376   26376   26376   26376   26376   26376   26376    26376    26376   26376    26276   487986
588L0A0                             A   18710      3690         8         A        A         O        0        0         0        A         O         A        6         0         A        O         o        o         o         0144800
TOTAL INFLOW                  4592   23198   22017   22518   22462   23223   22975    23584   23803   23872   26376    26376   26376   26376   26376   26376   26376    2676    26376   26376    26376  502386
CASH OUTFL8W
1888511188                          8  119800 4100              8         A        8        A         8         8        6        0         A         A        A         A         0        0         A        O         O         816000
OPERATINA CASI                  2174      5541    13432    15270    14107    14347   14869    14909    14951    14469   14719    14719    14719    14719    14719   14719    14719    14719    14719    14710    14719  21693
8B815880108(P)                      0        0         0        0         A        0      873      1048     1257      1588     1010      2172     2606      3126         A         O        A         O         0        6         8    14400
0E81 SERVICEII)                     0        0    2142       2880     2880      2080     2880      2766     2496    2245       1943      1581     1146       626         0         0        0         0         0        A         0   2640
18>81 AAOFLOA                 2174   17440    19674    18138    17607    17227   10622   10663   18704    18222   10472   10472    18472    18472    14719    14710    14719    14719    14719    14719    14719  343497
CAS  O ALA8CE                   2418      5750     2343      4359     4775      6006     4353      4921    5106       5650    7904       7904     7904      7904    11657    11657    11657    11657    11657    11657    11657  158888 
cW14L9    EtICAS" BALAAC        2418      818    16511    14870   1945    2565,2   30045    34926   40026   45676   53580   61484    69388    77292   88949  188605  112262   123919  133575  147232  151888 1361072
CO8Sl/8ENEFIT AAALYSIS
SALES                           4592   12480    10327   22518   22462   23233   22975    23584   23803   23872   26376   26376   26376    26376   26576    26376   26376    26376    26376    26376    26376   487986
OIPERATIAS COST                 4964      8338    16222    18068   17597    17137    17659    17699    17741    17259   17509    17509    17509    17589    17509    17589    17509    17509    17509    17509    17509  345283
881 KNEFIT1 A/ PROJECT        -372      4150     2105      4449     4865      6396    5216      5885      6062      6613     886  867      8867      8867      8867      8867     8867      8867     8867 88 867              8067  142703
8EI 8814F11 VIO 98OJEC        -372        88      162       162      162       460      400       400      400       400     1112      011      It2  1112      1112      1112     1112      1112      1112 II       1112      1112    ¡4438
IAVESTAENT COST                     0        0         8        0         8        0         6        0         0        0         0        8         0         0        0         6         0        0         8         6        0         0
FENCING                           0      250         0        8         0        0         A        6         0        0         8        0         0         0        0         0        8         0         0         0        0      250
1644  PREPARATIOA                 0    9650          0        8         0        8        A         0        0         8         8        0         6         0        6         9        0         0         6         A        0    965
COOSTROCTIOA                      0        0     1600         8         0        0        6         0        8         8         0        0         0         0        6         0        0         A         0        6         0     1600
EGIJIPAENT                        0    1260      1600         0         8        0        0         8        0         8         0        0         0         8        0         0        8         8         0         0        8     22600
WATER SUPPLY                      0      800         0        8         8        6         0        0        6         0         0        0         0        8         0         0        8         0         0         8        0      800
PIAl                              0        A     1580         8         0        0        6         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        A         0        0         8         8         A        8     1588
TOTAL IA9ST8NT                 6  11908        4100         0        0         8        6        8         0         0        6         6        0         6         8        8         0         0        8         8         6  16008
INCRE8E8IAL 881 BIEFEIT             0   -7831    -2157       4288     4703      5696     4916    5485       5662      6213     7754      7754     7754      7754      7754      7754     7754      7754      7754     7754      7885  112396 
March 6, 1981



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Investment Items and Foreign Exchange Component
Total                 Foreign
Investment Items                     Investment            Exchange
for 1,440 Farm Plans                 Costs                 Costs
Amount        Amount        Percentage
-     US$ 000 ------              %
Fencing                                 3,365         1,190            35
Pasture, Seeding                        8,925         3,180            35
Pasture, Cleaning                       1,940           800            40
Destumping                              5,000         3,500            70
Crops, Land Preparation                 4,650         3,255            70
Water Points                            1,820         1,270            70
Water Tanks                               935           655            70
Water Troughs                             180            55            30
Insemination Equipment                    300           210            70
Corrals                                 2,100         1,050            50
Workers Housing                           585            90            15
Constructions                           1,600           240            15
Farm Equipment                          2,200         1,540            70
Spray Race                              1,260           885            70
letfers                                 5,470         2,740            50
Bulls                                     970           490            50
Sows                                    1,000             0             0
Boars                                     500             0             0
Subtotal                    42,800        21,150            50
Items under 480 Comple-
mentary Investment Plans                6,500         3,250            50
Total (Base Line Cost)       49=300       24*400           100
December 19, 1980



PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT CASO FLOW(F0)
<US $ '000>
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         0        9        10       11        12       13        14        15        16       17        I8  TOTALS
CASH IFlLOW~
8OVERNIIENT ON-LENDIN8              0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
ON-FARN DEOELOPKENT           5873      7215     6555      1752         0        o        o         o        o         o         o        o         o         o        o         o        0         0   21395
OTHER INVSTNENTS              1432      1091      880         0         0        0        0         0        0         8         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0     3404
SIJOTOTAL                   7305    8306       7436     1752         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0  24798
INTEREST8N SUBLOMN                  O        0         0        0         0        0         0      .0          0        0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0        0         0
ON-FARO DEVEL8PtIENT              0     1895     4222    6336       6902     6902      6744     6419      5905     5286      4545      3655     2589      1308       450         0        0         0   63158
OTHER INVESTMENTS                 0      462      814     1098      1098      1052      960       822      656       457      218        71         0         0        0         0        0         0     7709
SUOTOTAL                       0     2357      5036    7434       8000     7953      7704     7241      6561     5743      4764     3726      2589      1308      450          0        0         0   78867
SUBLOAN REPAYNENT                   O        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0 
ON-FARO 8EVELOPKENT               0        0        0         0        0       789     1623    21575    3089        3706     4447      5337     6404      4291      2246         0        8         0   34508           r
OTHER INVESTMENTS                 0        0        0         0      233       456      691       829      994      1194      738       356         0         8        8         0        0         0    5498
SUBTOTAL                       O         0        0        0       233     1246      2314     3403      4084     4900      5185     5693      6404      4291     2246          0        0         0   39998
TOTAL INFLOW                    7305   10662    12472    9186         8232      9199    10818    10645    18645    10643       9949      9420      8993     5599      2696         0         0         0  135663
CASH OUTFLOU
SURILOAN DISBIJRSEMENT              0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0         0        8         0        0
QN-FARO DEVELOPMENT           9473    11636    10573      2825          0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0   34508
OTHER INVESTMENTS             2310      1760     1420         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0     5490
SUBTOTAL                   11783   13396    11993       2825         0         o        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0   39998
INTEREST TO GOVERNOENT              0      731     1561      2305     2480      2480     2289      2098     1908      1717      1526     1336      1145       954      764       581       382      191   24447
REPAYOENT Tú 80VERNOENT             0        0         0        0         0     1908      1908     1908      1908     1908      1908     1908      1908      1908     1908      1908      1908     1908    24798
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS                0      2136      504      743      800       795       770      724       656      574       476      373       259       131        45         8        0         0     7087
TOTAL 8UTFLOW                  11783   14363    14058        5873     3280      5183     4967      4730     4471      4199      3910     3616      3311      2993     2716    21488       2298     2099    96330
CASH BALANCE
CONSTArNT PRICES
ANNUAL BALANCE                 -4477   -3700    -1586        3313     4952      4016      5051     5914      6173     6445      6039     5804      561       2606       -20    -2,408    -2290    -2099    39333  ~ 
CUMULATIVEBALANCE             -4477   -8178    -9764   -6451   -1499           2517     7568    13482    19655    26100    32138    37942    43623   46229    46210    43721    41432    39333
March 6, 1981



PARABUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis Calculations
(US$ '000)
YEAR         1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995996-1999    2000  TOTALS
SMALL IIXED FARH
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT           2974    7634   13271   16112   17922   17791   17932   18125   18401   20264   20299   20299   20299   20299   20299   20299   20430  353551
INCREtENTAL COST              1350    5512    9619   12343   12464   12499   12530   12706   12525   12486   12414   12489   12489   12489   12489   12489   12489  228849
INVESTIENT COST               4284    4689    4320    1107          0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0   14400
ADMINISTRATIVE COST              0      107     203      288      294     288      274      248      212      176      140      104       68      32       11        0        0    2447
NET INC BENEFIT            -2659   -2674    -871    2375    5164    5004    5129    5170    5663    7602    7745    7706    7742    7778    7800    7810    7941  107856
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 44.4%
NEDIUM RANCH
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT            839    2996    5913   10514    9476   11187   11622   12334   13712   25721   26463   26662   26662   26662   26662   26662   31247  375319
INCREMENTAL COST               861    3081    5829    7829    6956    7182    7552    7935    8277   10473   10499   10500   10500   10500   10500   10500   10500  170Y77
INVESTMENT COST               3543    4941    4646    1282          0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0   14412
ADMINISTRATIVE COST              0       74     163      240      247      242     231      210      180      150      120       90       60      29        9        0        0    2046
NET INC BENEFIT            -3564   -5100   -4725    1164    2273    3764    3838    4188    5255   15098   15844   16072   16102   16132   16152   16161   20746  187885
INTERNAL  RATE  OF  RETURN  =  30.5%
LARGE RANCH
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT             16      162     447    1961    2310    4102    5436    6990    7478   13259   12969   12969   12969   12969   12969   12969   33320  192202
INCREHENTAL COST               345      793    1327    1832    2100    2368    2542    2656    2724    2947    2933    2933    2933    2933    2933    2933    2933   48964
INVESTMENT COSt               2622    3339    2808       780        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0    9549
ADMINISTRATIVE COST              0       55     114      159      164      161     153      138      118       98       78       58       38       18       6        0        0    1359
NET INC RENEFIT            -2951   -4025   -3803    -811         46    1573    2741    4196    4635   10214    9958    9978    9998   10018   10031   10036   30387  132330
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN = 25.5%
TOTAL PROJECT
_---------------
INCREMENTAL BENEFIT           3830   10792   19631   28587   29708   33081   34990   37449   39591   59245   59731   59930   59930   59930   59930   59930   84997  921071
INCREIENTAL COST              2555    9386   16775   22004   21521   22049   22624   23297   23527   25906   25846   25922   25922   25922   25922   25922   25922  448789
INVESTIENT COSI              10449   12969   11774    3169          0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0        0   38361
ADMINISTRATIVE COST              0      237      80      687      704      690     658      597      511      425      338      252      166       80      26         0       0    5851
NET INC BENEFIT           -9174  -11800   -9399    2728    7483   10341   11708   13555   15553   32914   33547   33756   33842   33928   33982   34008   59075  428070
INTERNAL  RATE  OF  RETURN  =  31.7%
IDr 
December 10, 1980o



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND SERVICES
A. Agricultural Credit
Institutional Credit Sources
1.        The principal institutional sources of agricultural credit in
Paraguay are the banking system and the specialized public and private credit
institutions. The banking system consists of the Central Bank (Banco Central
del Paraguay - CB), the Government-owned National Development Bank (Banco
Nacional de Fomento - BNF), and some 18 private commercial banks. The special-
ized public institutions comprise the Livestock Fund (Fondo Ganadero - FG),
and the Small Farmer Credit Agency (Credito Agricola de Habilitacion - CAH).
The private sector credit institutions are mainly financial corporations
(Financieras), cooperatives and savings and loans associations, and a semi-
private development corporation (COMDESA). Institutional credit to the
agricultural sector is controlled by CB within the terms of the General
Banking Law of 1952 as amended in 1973 and in 1979. FG, the principal source
of long-term credit to the livestock sub-sector, and CAH, which provides credit
and technical assistance to small-scale farmers not able to obtain credit from
traditional credit institutions, are the only two financial institutions
lending exclusively to the agricultural sector. BNF, commercial banks,
financieras and COMDESA are multisectorial lending institutions.
2.        Central Bank.  CB's principal duty is to formulate and apply
monetary, credit and exchange rate policies concerned wíth issuing and
controlling currency; establishing and controlling interest rates on both
deposits and loans; determining and enforcing legal reserve requirements; and,
through the Superíntendence of Banks, which forms part of CB, supervising and
auditing the operations of banks and other financial institutions subject to
the General Banking Law. CB is also empowered by law to advise on all domestic
and foreign borrowing by the Government. It provides rediscounting facilities
to the banking system and provides substantial loans to BNF. To participate
more actively in the country economic development effort, CB established FG in
1969 to administer credit programs for livestock production and the Special
Development Fund (Fondo Especial de Desarrollo - FED) in 1976 to administer a
credit program for rural enterprises, which in 1978 was converted into the
Small Enterprises Guarantee Fund. These funds have been financed by IDA/Bank
in the case of FG and USAID in the case of the small enterprises fund; both
funds have continued to expand their activities.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        The National Development Bank.  BNF is the síngle most important
source of credit to the agricultural sector (Annex 1, Table 1) and is also
a major source of credit to the forestry, industry and commerce sectors
of the economy. It carries its lending activities under three operational
departments -- Agrícultural, Development and Commercial -- supported by
other administrative and services departments. The Agricultural Department
operates three separate programs: (a) the small-scale farmers'- credit
program (Promocion Agropecuaria), implemented in 1963 and financed with
funds from four IDB loans, BNF own resources and loans from CB; (b) the
Agricultural Enterpríses Program (Programa de Empresas Agricolas) for financing
medium- and large-size agricultural borrowers, either as individuals, corpora-
tions, cooperatives or other associative schemes, financed mainly by foreign
bank loans and suppliers' credit; and (c) the Regional Projects Program, which
handles mainly the IDA/Bank-financed small-scale farmers' credit and rural
development projects (Bank loans 509-PA, 1418-PA and 1674-PA). The Agricul-
tural Department finances all types of agricultural activities but its lending
¡s mainly for short-term crop and livestock production loans and for medium-
and long-term investment loans for comprehensive development of crop farms or
small mixed crop/lívestock farms. Through íts 42 branches distributed in the
country's 14 departments and with a staff of some 800, it has for the past
four years served annually about 40,000 farmers. Its total annual lending to
the agricultural sector has been of the order of US$50 million, of which over
50% benefited small- and medium-size farmers.
4.        Commercial Banks.  These are private national or foreign banks
dedicated mainly to the financing of short-term commercial operations of
the different economic sectors. Except for a few of them, which have one or
two branches outside Asuncion, the majority operate only through their
headquarters offices in the capital city. Most of their agricultural lending
is for marketing of agricultural products, cattle fattening and other transac-
tions not requiring more than 90 to 180 days' credit assistance. Their credit
operations are financed mainly from deposits from the public and to some
extent by rediscounting with CB. Present CB regulations for the composition
of commercial banking loan portfolios require that banks hold a minimum of 25%
of their portfolio in industrial loans, 20% in loans for export fínancing, and
5% in agricultural loans. Under present policies, CB provides commercial banks
a rediscounting faciíity at 5% interest for up to 30% of their production loan
portfolio, provided such loans are for terms between 240 days and one year.
Commercial bank lending, in general, is very selective, giving preference to
the most lucrative and minimum risk operations, and thus their role in financing
the credit needs of medium- and small-size farmers is negligible. Moreover, as
shown in paragraph 6, most of their lending is at higher interest rates than
those offered by the public financial institutions, BNF, FG and CAH.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
5.        Small Farmer Credit Agency.  CAR is a public instítution created in
1943 to provide credit and technical assistance to relatively poor small
farmers lacking the minimum requirements to obtain institutional credit from
other sources (BNF, FG, private banks). Assistance is provided mainly to
producers grouped into cooperatives or associations specifically established
to make use of the credit and technical assistance provided by CAH. Over the
past three years, 92% of the loans have been for crop production, with terms
under one year. The rest were to finance machinery and implements and carried
terms of up to three years. The size of loans over the same period averaged
US$350 per farmer, lent at a nominal interest rate of 12% per annum, plus a
one-time commission of 2%. Traditionally, the recovery rate of CAH loans has
been very poor (40 to 50%); however, since its last reorganízation, in 1976,
it has improved substantially, with recoveríes of around 90% for loans made
and falling due during the past three years. CAH has 19 local offices in
eight departments of the Eastern Region and one in the Western Region (Chaco),
and, among these offices and its headquarters in Asuncion, it has 160
employees of whom 70 are technical staff.
Interest Rates and Inflation
6.        In accordance with a specific law (No. 561 - October 1973), money
lending at interest rates in excess of 12% per annum is considered usurious
and thus subject to drastic penalty. However, to cope with inflationary
conditions which have developed since 1974 and made lending unattractive at
such a rate, it has become an accepted practice for financial institutions to
increase the effective annual rate by such means as collecting prepayments of
interest, charging a one-time or annual comnission requiring compensating
balances of deposit at a low interest rate, or, as in the case of FG and some
savings and loan associations, partíally adjusting loan principals in accordance
with the variations of the CPI. On the basis of such a scheme, the effective
interest rate per annum as of the end of September 1980 charged by private and
public credit institutions was as follows:
Private Financial Companies (Financieras)            32.0%
Private Banks - short term                           28.0%
BNF Commercial Departnent (short term)               26.5%
FG Medium and long term                              25.0%
BNF Development Department (Industry)                21.2%
BNF Agricultural Department                          19.2%
Savings and Loan Associations                        18.0%
CAH Subsistence Small-scale Farmers                  14.0%
7.        As of early 1980, commercial banks (including BNF) were authorized
to pay up to 11% annually on deposits as compared to up to 8.5% until the end
of 1979.  However, financieras and savings and loan associations not subject
to such limitations have been paying up to 17% and 157, respectively, during
1980. Taking into consideration the risk concern of depositors with regard



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
to the non-banking institutions, the new rates paid by commercial banks have
helped them attract larger amounts of local deposits. Other regulations have
been issued in recent months, and CB control over financieras and savings and
loan associations is under consideration to prevent unfair competition between
banks and non-banking fínancíal institutíons.
8.        The private financial institutions in general have had the necessary
flexibility to change their lending charges and deposit interest rates to
constantly ensure profitable positive lending rates in real terms. On the
other hand, this has not always been the case wíth BNF and FG, which, as
Government' institutions, were forced to keep their lending rates low in spite
of high ínflation rates. However, in the case of BNF, as of 1980, in accordance
with assurances obtained under the on-going Bank-financed industrial loan, the
interest rate structure was reorganized so as to reduce the possibility of fu-
ture negative rates; as for FG, it is expected that future inflation rate will
be below the 29% of 1979 and that the interest and commission rate plus the one
tirne administrative charge (para 5.08) will provide a positive rate in real
terms during the implementation stage of the project.
B. Agricultural Services
9.        Several Government institutions provide technical assistance
to farmers and ranchers in Paraguay. However, lack of proper coordination,
dispersion of manpower resources and particularly budgeting deficiencies
affect their operational capability. MAG, through its departments of Agricul-
tural and Forestry Research and Extension and the Bureau of Agricultural and
Forestry Education (DEAF), has, in theory, responsibility for the overall
administration of the main MAG divisions or autonomous entities providing
technical assistance in the agricultural sector.
Agricultural Extension
10.       MAG's National Agriculture and Livestock Extension Service (SEAG)
has the main responsibility for providing technical assistance to farmers at
field level, with prímary emphasis placed on assisting small-scale farmers
deidicated to crop or mixed farming. SEAG's staff consists of 305 persons,
about 240 of whom are assigned to 84 dístrict offices. Technical assistance
i¡; offered both individually and to groups through women's and rural youth
clubs and producers' cooperative groups. SEAG also cooperates with the
National Development Bank (BNF) through the Program of Joint Action (PAC) to
promote formation of producers' credit groups in an effort to combine technical
assistance, credit, input purchases and marketing of farm products. Due to
inadequate budgetary allocation, however, the quality of the SEAG staff is
generally weak, with very poor specialist support for the medium-level techni-
cians who carry out day-to-day activities. Additional extension services are
provided by the three publíc credit institutions, BNF, FG, and CAH.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
Agricultural Research
11.       Agricultural research is carried out by MAG and the faculties of
Agronomy and of Veterinary Science at the University of Asuncion. Research
in crop production is conducted mainly at MAG's National Agricultural
Institute (IAN) and the Regional Center for Agricultural Research (CRIA).
Research in crop production mainly involves cultivation practices, fertilizer
trials and genetic improvement for wheat, soybeans, cotton, sugarcane, rice,
corn and cassava.  One of IAN's most important activities is its seed produc-
tion program in cooperation with the National Seed Service (SENASE) which
distributes to farmers certified soybean, cotton and tobacco seed.
12.       Livestock research is carried out mainly under the Livestock
Research Program (PRONIEGA) established in 1969 under the auspices of MAG and
the National University. PRONIEGA has one main research station in the Chaco
and two in the Eastern Region, San Lorenzo and Barrerito.  Its various research
activities are handled by specialized divisions in the areas of nutrition,
genetics and animal husbandry, animal health, pasture and weed control and
economics. Work on pastures and forage has resulted in some varieties being
widely exploited in Paraguay, i.e., Pangola and Buffel grass.
Animal Health Servíces
13.       The principal diseases affecting livestock production are hoof
and mouth, brucellosis and parasitism, with limited rabies.  SENACSA is
an autonomous entíty supported by MAG, the University of Asuncion and the
Rural Association of Paraguay and has, since 1978, had the responsibility for
implementation of the National Plan of Animal Realth, which includes mainly
the campaigns for the control of foot and mouth disease, brucellosis, rabies
and tuberculosis, and it has taken over operation of the Foot and Mouth
Disease Institute (SENALFA).  SENACSA has some 45 field offices and a staff of
380 employees, including 120 veterinarians.
March 6, 1981



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
PARAGUAY
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
Al - Paraguay: SAR Fourth Livestock Credit Project; IBRD Report
No. 346-PA, July 19, 1974.
A2 - Paraguay: SAR Livestock and Agricultural Development Project;
IBRD Report No. 2272-PA, March 6, 1979.
A3 - Paraguay: SAR Industrial Credit and Regional Development
Project; IBRD Report No. 2888-PA, May 1980.
A4  -  Economíc Memorandum on Paraguay; IBRD Report No. 2461-PA,
May 1979.
A5 - Paraguay: PCR Fourth Livestock Project, September 1980, and
PPAR (final draft).
A6 - Paraguay: BNF Agricultural Credit Program; UNDP/IBRD, Report
by Gusman Garcia Rivero, August 1980 (in Spanish).
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bl - Paraguay: Sixth Livestock Project, FG/BCP Project Preparation
Report, September 1980 (in Spanish).
B2 - Paraguay: National Accounts 1972/1979, BCP, July 1980.
C.   Selected Working Papers and Tables Prepared by Mission Members
Cl - Detailed Calculations and Assumptions for On-farm Development
Models.
C2 - Detailed Calculations for Project's Financial and Economic
Analysis.
April 7, 1981






C > =        ,pç 1         ¡                    r      =5              ~  \     0            l                 70i       ; X        S  0  0  |; w  h  ~ a
t X =8=f)tL  1 tk  »ç=i00   \= \  \   -   X  \  i   '    /   i   t; i Z       i z i ;ttÉ =i     t r  ; i; 1(         0 i X i;t  ---~~A IV, 
=   :   ;     . =     t ;     '   \ \   : j =     E = : L ; -   -=t    :   ;  =EH    C   .=¡SC PT1: 
20 d\.A.dr r»so LA3ERFb A%D~~~ i T<i  0 ]\,f 
0UENO  b4V        / E    CFt Nco                     0    /          rl-çti                i          ¡t      
=-=11  0    I   /         l            (S  7                      WiV>=  t ~~~~EPION             =         40                    X?t
=M1~~~~  ~     ~        ~       ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~ \     D //     |d,l   T5X .¡X                          9        ;tm;    =;;                    :f4 
:r   g  !  |  \ I / \ FIIERI~~~~SN                                                                P  0LP 4  ===,=   = ===== =_=
=~~~~~ ~                 A  uuEts4            /  JNC15P     zri abAoz |PrJsog                 X        (              \          X  
=  7«jt1ow2msn rDEVE                                             0]1== 4_t- tXNTX%=t
NTRYé MGL                     A*   urPm^)0;:09j  
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ffE 14R;OtTAÉ P Ei   :           /         
q  B       O Q _i E\    AMN " "             \.Lt;                                            .   wDl     ri ECO    ¿-                 °S, r   
z~ ~  ~ ~      ~~~&E 1 ¿APT-,4F>nn  jUiE RAD\                                              <          psZra1 /tbz >                   >Z   =, 
;- i= r   <<X                                                          L- -EN'/ t_                          >-           z         ;= IWAt  <
n a ; g S = >/ EPA TM,, ,,_nP t'cl  arln  
=~~ ~  ~          ~~~~   v  n  n  =n-_                                 ..  \/                      @1                  9uu  w            =             



