OFFICIAI
 UMENT,   LOAN NUMBER 1979 PA
Loan Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1979 FA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        J        V-, 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Fondo Ganadero
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Fondo Ganadero the proceeds
of the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(C) the OPEC Fund for International Development is con-
sidering assisting the Borrower in financing the execution of the
Project.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Fondo
Ganadero;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Fondo Ganadero" means the fund established under the
jurisdiction of Banco Central by Decree No. 7383 of September 12,
1969, confirmed by Decreto-Ley No. 20 of February 6, 1970 (which
was approved by Law No. 189 of June 10, 1970) and amended by
Decree No. 13475 of July 8, 1970, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Fondo Ganadero of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided for in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d) "Banco Central" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(a) "Investment Project" means a project to increase or
improve, or both, the physical resources and productivity of
a farm or ranch of a Beneficiary to be financed out of a Sub-loan;
(f) "Beneficiary" means a farmer, a cooperative of farmers
or a rancher to which Fondo Ganadero proposes to make or has
made a Sub-loan for financing an Investment Project;
(g) "Sub-loan" means a medium or long term loan made or
proposed to be made, out of the proceeds of the Loan by Fondo
Ganadero to a Beneficiary for the carrying out of an Investment
Project;
(h)  "guarani" and the symbol "0" mean the currency of
the Borrower;
(i) "Indice de Precios al Consumidor" means the consumer
price index published monthly by Banco Central;
(j) "livestock" means cattle, draft animals, sheep and
pigs;
(k) "Livestock Extension Unit" means the extension unit
established in Fondo Ganadero pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the


﻿- 3 -
Project Agreement (Livestock and Agricultural Development Project,
Loan 1674-PA), between the Bank and Banco Central, dated April 6,
1979;
(1) "Small-size Farm" means a specialized beef producing
farm of not more than 250 ha, a mixed livestock/crop farm of not
more than 80 ha, or any other agricultural enterprise requiring
a Sub-loan of not more than US$30,000 equivalent;
(m) "Medium-size Farm" means a specialized beef producing
farm ranging in size from 250 to 2,500 ha, a mixed livestock/
crop farm of more than 80 ha, or any other agricultural enter-
prise requiring a Sub-loan of more than US$30,000 equivalent;
(n)  "Large-size Farm" means a beef producing ranch of more
than 2,500 ha;
(o)  "Small Farmers" means agricultural producers operating
a small-size farm either as individual or as members of coopera-
tives or similar forms of association;
(p) "Medium-size Farmers" means agricultural producers
operating a medium-size farm; and
(q) "Large-size Ranchers" means the operators of a large-
size farm.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. (a) The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.03 of the
General Conditions, the Bank may cancel, by notice to the Bor-
rower, an amount of the Loan up to the equivalent of any financing
obtained from external sources for the Project other than the
Loan, and, in such event, the Bank shall promptly, by notice to
the Borrower, reduce the allocation of the proceeds of the Loan
taking into account the purpose of such financing.


﻿-4-
Section 2.02. The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan
Account the equivalent of 62% of the amounts disbursed (or, if
the Bank shall so agree, of the amounts required to meet disburse-
ments to be made) by Fondo Ganadero, through Sub-loans, to finance
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made in respect of
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Fondo Ganadero is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of th    Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such rural gricultural productive
facilities and resources in Paraguay as will contribute to the


﻿- 5 -
agricultural, economic and social development of the country. The
Project consists of:
Part A:   A countrywide agricultural credit program by
Fondo Ganadero to finance the productive facili-
ties and resources necessary for increasing
livestock production and, in the case of Small- and
Medium-Size farmers, increasing the production of
livestock and agricultural crops, mainly soybeans
and cotton, if they are part of a mixed crop-
livestock operation.
Part B:   A technical assistance program by Fondo Ganadero
to provide extension services to small farmers
and to assist Beneficiaries in the preparation of
Investment Projects.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause Fondo Ganadero to perform in accordance with the provisions
of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein set forth,
shall take or cause to be taken all action (including the provi-
sion of funds, facilities, services and other resources) neces-
sary or appropriate to enable Fondo Ganadero to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to
Fondo Ganadero under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, provid-
ing, inter alia, that: (i) the Subsidiary Loan shall be deno-
minated and repayable in Guaranies; (ii) any foreign exchange
risk will be borne by the Borrower; (iii) the interest rate shall
be 1/2 percentage point above the rate set forth in Section 2.06
of this Agreement; (iv) the commitment charge referred to in
Section 2.05 of this Agreement shall be paid by the Borrower; and
(v) the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan shall be used by Fondo
Ganadero exclusively in the execution of Part A of the Project.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority
for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the
allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange,
such lien shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso
facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure
the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan,
and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation of
such lien, shall make express provision to that effect; provided,
however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal reason
such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien created
on assets of any of its political or administrative subdivisions,
the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an
equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to the
Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held by
any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Fondo Ganadero shall have failed to perform any cove-
nant, agreement or obligation of Fondo Ganadero under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that Fondo Ganadero will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the legislation establishing and regulating the opera-
tions of Fondo Ganadero shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of Fondo Ganadero to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdic-
tion shall have taken any action for the dissolution or dis-
establishment of Fondo Ganadero or for the suspension of its
operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero; and
(b) any events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:


﻿-8 -
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of Fondo Ganadero have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero; and
(c) Banco Central, has approved the terms and conditions for
Sub-loans set forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Fondo Ganadero, and is legally binding upon Fondo
Ganadero in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that Banco Central has taken all necessary administra-
tive action to approve the terms and conditions of Sub-loans
referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement.
Section 6.03. The date'; p  wl At ,, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-9-
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda
Chile y Palma
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Asunci6n
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
By   /S1   m&a.L    Lcrfr   ers"44,
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By            ARegional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through   October 1, 1997                   1,155,000
On April 1, 1998                                 1,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 11 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                   3.40%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                             6.20%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                             8.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   9.60%


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds
of the Loan
(a) The proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
Category                            Allocation
(i) Sub-loans to Large-             $6,000,000 equivalent
size Ranchers
(ii) Sub-loan to Medium-             $9,000,000 equivalent
size Farmers
(iii) Sub-loans to Small-             $13,500,000 equivalent
size Farmers
(iv) Unallocated                     $1,500,000 equivalent
Total                     $30,000,000 equivalent
(b) Notwithstanding the allocation made in the preceding
paragraph (a):
(i) within an 18-month period after the Effective Date,
the unallocated proceeds of the Loan in Category
(iv) in paragraph (a) above, may only be reallo-
cated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower to
Category (iii) of such paragraph, and after such
18-month period had expired, the Eorrower and the
Bank shall review:
(A) the status of commitments for Sub-loans to
Small-size Farmers and future commitments
therefor expected to be made with regard to
such Sub-loans; and
(B) the performance of Fondo Ganadaro in the
execution of the Project, especially with
regard to Sub-loans and technical assistance
to Small-size Farmers and, based on such
review, the Bank may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or reduce the amount then


﻿- 13 -
allocated to Category (iii) by an amount not
greater than five percent of the Loan amount,
provided, however, that the total amount
allocated to such Category (iii) shall in no
case, exceed 50% nor be less than 40% of the
amount of the Loan.
(ii) subject to the provisions of subparagraph (i)
above, if the unallocated proceeds of Category (iv)
in paragraph (a) above cannot be committed to
Sub-loans to Small-size Farmers within a reasonable
time and if the Bank has reasonably determined
that the amount of the Loan then allocated to
Categories (i) or (ii) will be insufficient to
finance the Sub-loan demand for either of such
categories, the Bank may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, reallocate to either Category (i) or
Category (ii), to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to the other categories which in the
opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     M-day of      0*  , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


