f              I LOAN NUMBER 1979 PA
Project Agreement
(Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO GANADERO
Dated          7%  V1              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1979 PA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and FONDO GANADERO.
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Paraguay (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars
($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that Fondo Ganadero agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Fondo Ganadero, the proceeds of the loan
provide, for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to
Fondo Ganadero on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS Fondo Ganadero, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Fondo Ganadero shall carry out the Project,
described in Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini
strative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the


﻿funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Fondo Ganadero in carrying
out Part B of the Project, Fondo Ganadero shall employ a qualified
and experienced agronomist to work at its Ciudad Presidente
Stroessner Office, whose qualifications and experience shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) assign and station an
adequate number of field technicians in its central and regional
offices for such periods and on such terms and conditions as may
be necessary for such field technicians: (i) to assist in the
preparation, receive and process Sub-loan applications; (ii) to
supervise Investment Projects; and (iii) to assist farmers in the
application of improved management practices; and (b) appraise
Sub-loan applications in terms of the managerial capabilities of
the Beneficiaries and the technical, financial and environmental
soundness of the proposed Investment Projects, taking into
account, inter alia, income and expenditure estimates, cash flow
projections and the financial rate of return on the investment,
provided, however, that Sub-loan applications for Investment
Projects consisting of single input complementary investments
may be appraised on the basis of simple cash flow projections to
determine the merits of such proposed investments; and (c) in
order to cover technical and administrative costs related to the
preparation and supervision of Investment Projects, charge a
one-time fee, satisfactory to the Bank, such fee to be paid at
the time of signing of the Sub-loan.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo Ganadero shall: (a) provide its field technicians with
adequate transportation facilities; and (b) provide funds
sufficient for: (i) fuel and maintenance for such transportation
facilities; and (ii) offices for, and air travel by, such field
technicians.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
Fondo Ganadero shall make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for Invest-
ment Projects in accordance with the operating policies and
procedures set forth in this Agreement, including those set forth
in the Schedules to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Fondo Ganadero shall:
(a) make any Sub-loan on terms whereby Fondo Ganadero shall
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary or by other


﻿-3-
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Borrower, the Bank and Fondo Ganadero, including in the
case of any such Sub-loan, the right of Fondo Ganadero to:
(i) require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Invest-
ment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial, agricultural and managerial
standards and to establish and maintain adequate records; (ii)
require that (A) the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased through regular commercial
channels, at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and
reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facili-
ties and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them;
and (B) such goods and services shall be appropriate for the Pro-
ject and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out thereof;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites,
works, plants, farms, ranches and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Beneficiary
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such in-
surance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business and agricultural practice; and (B)
without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace
or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Borrower, the Bank or Fondo Ganadero shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Beneficiary; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its
obligations under its contract with Fondo Ganadero; and
(b) exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Borrower, the Bank and Fondo Ganadero, and (ii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.07. Fondo Ganadero shall use all funds paid or
to be paid thereto under Sub-loans exclusively for the purpose
of financing livestock and agricultural development in the


﻿territories of the Borrower, provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this Section shall not apply to funds required by
Fondo Ganadero: (i) to service the financial obligations to the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (ii) to meet the
reasonable costs of carrying out the Project and administering
such funds. The Bank and Fondo Ganadero shall consult from time to
time as to the policies and procedures for ensuring the effective
use of such funds.
Section 2.08. (a) Fondo Ganadero shall: (i) maintain records
adequate to reflect the progress of the Project (including the
cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom) and to identify
the type of goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Sub-loans and to disclose the use thereof in the Investment
Projects; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loans and any
relevant records and documents and to visit the facilities
and sites included in the Investment Projects; (iii) furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its costs
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived thereof, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds; and (iv) retain, until two years
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditures and shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Loan Account, Fondo Ganadero shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution of the Iniestment Projects,
their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from them,
the performance by the Borrower, the Bank and Fondo Ganadero of
their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement and this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon Fondo
Ganadero's obligations under this Section, Fondo Ganadero shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request,
on the progress of the execution of the Project.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. Fondo Ganadero shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Bank shall otherwise agree, Fondo Ganadero shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) Fondo Ganadero shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Fondo Ganadero shall promptly inform the Bank of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by Fondo Ganadero of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.11. Fondo Ganadero shall make its best efforts in
order to increase its lending to Small-size Farmers and shall
provide, promptly as needed, all such technical assistance,
extension services and staff and resources as shall be required
for the purpose of such lending.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Fondo Ganadero shall conduct its business and
operations in accordance with appropriate financial, agricultural
and administrative practices and under the supervision of com-
petent and experienced management.
Section 3.02. Fondo Ganadero shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.03. Fondo Ganadero shall establish a separate
Project Account exclusively for the Project and shall record
in it all receipts and payments for or in connection with the
Project, including amounts disbursed to, and received from,
Beneficiaries under Sub-loans.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. Fondo Ganadero shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than four months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested, which report shall include a statement as to whether
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods and services eligible for financing under the
Loan Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of Fondo
Ganadero and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of Fondo Ganadero thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify Fondo Ganadero
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-7-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Fondo Ganadero:
Palma 468
Asunci6n
Paraguay
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Fondo Ganadero, or by Fondo Ganadero on
behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the President of Fondo Ganadero or such other
person or persons as the President of Fondo Ganadero shall desig-
nate in writing, and Fondo Ganadero shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-8-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
is/      EAxr,c Lex,4^%
By                        Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO GANADERO
Byut                               Rpenai
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Sub-loan Approval
To qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan, each applicant
will demonstrate to the satisfaction of Fondo Ganadero that he
meets all such creditworthiness criteria as shall be reasonably
established from time to time by Fondo Ganadero.
2.   Financing Investment Projects
(a) Sub-loans will finance up to 90% of the cost of the
Investment Projects of Small-size Farmers and up to. 75% of the
cost of other Investment Projects.
(b) Except in the case of cooperatives, no Sub-loan will
exceed, by itself or when added to any other Sub-loan or Sub-loans
made to the same Beneficiary under the Project, the equivalent of
eighteen million guaranies (018,000,000) adjusted for infla-
tion on the basis of the variation of the Indice de Precios al
Consumidor from June 30, 1980 to the date of Sub-loan approval.
(c) The amount allocated to the purchase of livestock
will not exceed 50% of the total estimated cost of an Investment
Project.
3.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
(a) Sub-loans will have payment terms of up to 12 years,
including grace periods of up to 4 years. Specific repayment and
grace period terms will be established by Fondo Ganadero on the
basis of the cash flow projections of the Investment Project.
(b) The outstanding principal amount of each Sub-loan,
will bear interest and commissions at an annual rate of not less
than 18%, provided, however, that not later- than March 1 each
year, Fondo Ganadero will put into effect annual interest rates
and commissions for new Sub-loans which will be in the aggregate
not less than the variation of the Indice de Precios al Consumidor
in the preceding calendar year.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) above, the variation of
the Indice de Precios al Comsumidor in a given calendar year will


﻿- 10 -
be determined by dividing the arithmetic average of the cost of
living (as measured by such Indice) for such calendar year by
the arithmetic average of the cost of living (measured in the
same manner) for the previous calendar year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certi'y that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  //L     day of        , 198  .
FOR SECRETARV


