                         Document of
                      The World Bank


                                                        Report No: 59068-AR




                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                           ON A

              PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                              OF
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY
               ADMINISTRATION (ANSES) PROJECT
                        LOAN 7318-AR
                          07/05/2005


                          TO THE

                    ARGENTINE REPUBLIC


                         12/09/2010
                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ANSES   National Social Security Administration.
GoA     Government of Argentina.
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
PDO     Project Development Objective.




     Regional Vice President:     Pamela Cox
            Country Director:     Penelope J. Brook
    Sector Manager / Director:    Veronica E. Zavala Lombardi
           Task Team Leader:      Alexandre Arrobbio




                                  2
                                   Extension of Closing Date
                    ARGENTINA -- INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE
                 NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (ANSES) PROJECT
                                         P092836
                                        L-7318-AR

1. The closing date for the Argentina - Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security
   Administration (ANSES) Project (Loan-7318-AR, P092836) will be extended by 18 months from
   March 31, 2011 until September 30, 2012.
2. Project implementation experienced initial delays. Delays in project implementation are due to
   two main factors. On the one hand, effectiveness authorization was granted 16 months after loan
   approval due t o ( i) a n 11 m onth de lay i n t he internal a pproval pr ocess of t he l oan b y t he
   Argentina G overnment, a nd (ii) a dditional t ime r equired t o r each an a greement on t he
   establishment d ate a nd specific c omposition o f the p roject S teering C ommittee. O n th e o ther
   hand, large scale internal reorganization in ANSES during 2008 a bsorbed critical resources and
   attention of the agency that could otherwise have been dedicated to project implementation.
3. Since October 2009, the new ANSES management team enhanced implementation progress.
   Over the last twelve months, total disbursement (IBRD and GoA funding) registered an increase
   of 59% , a nd c ontracting m ore t han doubl ed dur ing t he s ame pe riod. H owever, t o da te, l oan
   disbursements ( IBRD f unding onl y) s tand a t US$8.4 m illion ( 33.6% of t he l oan a mount),
   representing an increase of only 23% over the last twelve months, because recent activities under
   the projectwere mainly financed with counterpart funds. T his is due to the project current cost
   sharing scheme: i) the financing allocation rules for this loan (30% IBRD funding for consulting
   services, 100 % f or e quipment a cquisition), a nd ii) t he hi gh p roportion of c onsulting s ervices
   contracting out at this stage. Nevertheless, ongoing procurement processes under the project are
   well advanced. S pecifically, contracted amounts using IBRD funding are scheduled to increase
   from US$8.7 million at end of October 2010 t o US$15.8 million (63% of the loan amount) b y
   the end of the first quarter of CY 2011.
4. The project has also made important progress towards achieving results. On the one hand, over
   seventy percent of the proposed targets have already been met and in some cases exceeded. On
   the other, three of the four Project Development Objective (PDO) indicators have already been
   achieved: (i) citizen's satisfaction with service delivery is 78.2% (close t o the 80% target), (ii)
   time required to process new beneficiaries is 88 da ys (compared to the 90 da ys target), and (iii)
   the level of errors in filing is lower than the target.
5. Given current implementation progress and results shown to date, the project is on track to
   achieve all the original objectives within the 18 months extension. In particular, the project will
   reach 100% of contracting a nd di sbursement a s w ell a s a chieve 100% of pr oposed out come
   targets b y t he end of t his 18 m onths e xtension p eriod. T his i s ba sed on a r ealistic a ction pl an
   presented b y the Government to the Bank. This plan is acceptable to the Bank and reflects the
   Government's commitment to fully implement this project.
6. This         will        be        the        first        extension         of        the        project.




                                                         3
