Document of
The World Bank
Report No: ICR2606
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-73180)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING OF THE NATIONAL SOCIAL SECURITY
ADMINISTRATION (ANSES II)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
April 10, 2013
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Public Sector & Governance Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 2006 and September 2012)
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso
2006
1.00 = US$ 0.327
US$ 1.00 = 3.054 pesos
September 2012
1.00 = US$ 0.213
US$ 1.00 = 4.7 pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP          Beneficiaries Database (Administrador de Personas)
ANSES        National Social Security Administration (Administracion Nacional de
Seguridad Social)
AUH          Universal Child Allowance (Asignacion Universal por Hijo)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
CRM          Customer Relationship Management
ERP          Enterprise Resource Management
FGS          Sustainability Guarantee Fund (Fondo de Garantia de Sustentabilidad)
FM           Financial Management
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GTZ          German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaftfiir
Technische Zusammenarbeit)
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT          Information and Communication Technology
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IFR          Interim Financial Report
IMF          International Monetary Fund
ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
IT           Information Technology
JICA         Japan International Cooperation Agency
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objective
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
QAG          Quality Assurance Group


﻿QALP          Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
SAFJP         Superintendency of the Private Pension System (Superintendencia de
AFJP's)
SAP           Systems, Applications and Products in Data Processing
SIPA          Integrated Social Security System (Sistema Integrado Provisional
Argentino)
SRT           Private Work-Place Risk Superintendency (Superintendencia de
Administradoras de Riesgos de Trabajo)
SSS           Social Security Secretariat
SUAF          Single System for Family Allocations (Sistema Unico de Asignaciones
Familiar)
SUDE          Single System for Unemployment (Sistema Unico de Desempleo)
TTL           Task Team Leader
UDAT          Telephone Service Unit (Unidad de Atenci6n Telefonica)
UNDP          United National Development Program
UNOPS         United Nations Office for Project Services
Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director: Penelope J. Brook
Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera Gutierrez
Project Team Leader: Ana Bellver Vazquez-Dodero
ICR Team Leader: Ana Bellver Vazquez-Dodero
ICR Primary Author: Aranzazu Guillan-Montero, Adrienne Hathaway


﻿
﻿ARGENTINA
Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security Administration
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design  ............................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes  ............................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes         .................................................... 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                    .........................  12
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................... 12
6. Lessons Learned.................................................... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .  .......... 15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing     .......................................... 16
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...............          ..................... ..... 17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................. 29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes  .  ........... 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results           ....................................... 32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results. ..................    .......... 34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ........  ............ 35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  ................ 47
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents...................................... 48
Annex 10. Relevant IBRD and IDB Projects     ........................    .......... 49
MAP


﻿
﻿A. Basic Information
Institutional
Country:            Argentina            Project Name:        Strengthening - ANSES
II TA
Project ID:          P092836             L/C/TF Number(s):   IBRD-73180
ICR Date:            04/10/2013          ICR Type:            Core ICR
GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:  TAL                 Borrower:
ARGENTINA
Original Total
USD 25.00M          Disbursed Amount:   USD 18.05M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     USD 18.05M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
National Social Security Administration (ANSES)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date           Process       Original Date
Date(s)
Concept Review:    02/24/2005   Effectiveness:      11/16/2006       11/16/2006
01/17/2011
Appraisal:         05/17/2005   Restructuring(s):
09/27/2012
Approval:          07/05/2005   Mid-term Review:
Closing:            03/31/2011      09/30/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:             Moderate
Bank Performance:                        Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:    Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing  Moderately Satisfactory
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                             Overall Borrower
Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                             Performance:


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
Indicators                                Rating
Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project
Yes                Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any  YQuality of
Yes Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                            Implementation:
DO rating before
. 'Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                       100               100
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                   40               40
Other accountability/anti-corruption                      20               20
Other public sector governance                            40               40
E. Bank Staff
Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy                  Pamela Cox
Country Director:      Penelope J. Brook             Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:       Arturo Herrera Gutierrez       Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:     a Bellver Vazquez-Dodero     Kathrin A. Plangemann
ICR Team Leader:      Ana Bellver Vazquez-Dodero
ICR Primary Author:   Aranzazu Guillan-Montero
Adrienne Elizabeth Hathaway


﻿F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Building on the achievements of the first operation, the project development objective is to
enhance service-delivery by ANSES by improving its efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and
accountability through institutional reengineering, fraud and error detection, change management
and greater internal and external oversight, as well as institutional strengthening of the Social
Security Secretariat.
In particular, the proposed project will: (i) consolidate and expand selected organizational
reforms of ANSES through business process reengineering, integration and automation of core
processes, functions, and products, and ICT investments for continuous dynamic change with a
view to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of service-delivery; (ii) support the institutional
strengthening of the Social Security Secretariat to enhance its policymaking and oversight
functions, strengthen the accountability of ANSES and other social security institutions, and
promote outreach to other stakeholders; (iii) enhance access to information and exchange of
information, help fraud and error detection in benefit determination and liquidation, and promote
effective channels for citizen engagement and oversight, with a view to improve internal and
external transparency and citizen participation; and (iv) promote change management, innovation,
and dissemination of good management practices to enhance project performance and
sustainability.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value
approval        Target     Completion or
documents)       Values      Target Years
Satisfaction rates of service delivery (measured by % beneficiaries that rate
Indicator 1
ANSES Services "Satisfactory")
Value
quantitative or 45%                  80%                           86.2%
Qualitative)
Date achieved  06/01/2005            03/31/2011                   06/15/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved. Last reading recorded as of June 2012.
achievement)
Indicator 2:  Reduction of average time in the provision of new benefits
Value
quantitative or 140 days             90 days                      74 days
Qualitative)
Date achieved  06/01/2005            03/31/2011                   09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Reduction of error rates in the determination of benefits (measured by % of


﻿errors in calculation and application of norms over total errors)
Value
quantitative or 74%                 27%                           34%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    12/31/2009
Comments
.           Target for 2009 achieved (37%) before a new indicator was informally
(mncl. %      i
.e   e     introduced to the results framework, but results never documented in ISRs.
achievement)
Improved disclosure and dissemination of studies to regulated agencies, Ministry
Indicator 4: of Labor and Employment, and general public as measured by stakeholders
survey satisfaction
Value
quantitative or 0                   75%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %      No progress on indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Survey to Employees and other stakeholders that reflect support of project
activities and openness to change.
Value
Vu    To be taken at the
quantitative or                     90%                           78.5%
.i     beginning of the project
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    12/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                Actual Value
Formally
Values (from                  Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value                       Revised
approval                   Completion or
Target Values
documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1:
Indiato 1 :Redctio oftimein he poviionof death benefits processed by (i) phone or (ii)
attending a service center.
Value
.     (i) 60 days           (i) 1 day                    (i) 5 days
(quantitative i
or Qualitative) (ii) 170 days       (ii) 1 day                   (ii) 66 days
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    09/30/2012
Almost achieved. ANSES replaced the provision of benefits processed by phone
Comments      1
with Web Services, which were introduced in 2006. Provision of benefits via
(incl. %i
lWeb Services took 5 days in 2006-2012. Information for actual value at
achievement).
completion reflects web services.
Average Initiation of retirement benefits by employee working on service
Indicator 2:
delivery per month.
Value         66                    74                            19


﻿(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005           03/31/2011                   09/30/2012
Changes in ANSES's operational strategy resulted in a shift towards channels
Comments     i
like telephone and internet. This, combined with an increase in personnel to meet
(incl. %
acievemen    increased beneficiary demand, reduced the number of cases initiated per
achievement)
employee.
Increased number of centers and regional distribution (measured by increase in
Indicator 3:
number of offices per year)
Value
(quantitative  244                  10                          6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005           03/31/2011                   09/30/2012
Partially achieved; ANSES changed its strategy in 2007 to prioritize institutional
Comments
presence through technological systems (kiosks) rather than opening new offices.
(incl. %i
Over the entire course of implementation, ANSES opened 113 offices (total
achievement)
targeted: 184).
Percentage pension systems fully integrated and automated (as measured by
Indicator 4:
percentage of modules completed and fully implemented)
Value
To be taken at the
(quantitative                 .     100%                        90%
beginning of the project
or Qualitative)1
Date achieved 06/01/2005           03/31/2011                   12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Almost achieved. A target of 100% automation is not realistic.
achievement)
Percentage improvement in: (i) ADP, (ii) SUAF, (iii) SUDE, (iv) Individual
Indicator 5: work history (total improvement at the end of each year measured by percentage
of modules completed)
(i) 100%
(i) 0                (i) 100%                     (ii) 100%
.     (ii) 0               (ii) 100%                    (iii) Not measured
(quantitative .
(iii) 0              (iii) 100%                   during project
or Qualitative).
(iv) 0               (iv) 100%                    implementation
(iv) 100%
Date achieved 06/01/2005           03/31/2011                   12/31/2009
Comments     i
Targets for (i), (ii) and (iv) achieved in 2009. PAD anticipated work history
(incl. %i
target to be met in year 3.
achievement)
Indicator 6: Increase in number of employees in the Career Plan (to be created by the project)
Value
(quantitative  0                    100%                        100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            12/31/2008                  12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %     Achieved in 2010.
achievement)
Indicator 7:  Redefined long term strategy and functions, streamlined processes, new


﻿organizational structure, and M/E
Value
(quantitative  None                 100% operational              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8:  Number of Monitoring reports studies and studies on social policy.
Value
(quate       Monitoring: 0         Monitoring:20
(quantitative .
Studies: 0            Studies: 12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Indicator not measured in implementation
achievement)
Supervision of all autonomous agencies (ANSES, SAFJP, and SRT) executed at
Indicator 9:
least once annually
Value
.     No baseline defined in  At least once per
(quantitative  P
!PAD.                 year.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011
Comments
(incl. %      Indicator not measured in implementation.
achievement)
Indicator 10: Citizens control evaluation mechanisms implemented.
Value
(quantitative  0                    100%                          78%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    09/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 11: Claims Management System implemented an incorporated into the process
Value
To be taken at the
(quantitative  !                    100%                          100%
or ualtatve)beginning of the project
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            12/31/2008                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved
achievement)
Number of External Evaluations done and results incorporated into project
Indicator 12:..
implementation (per year)
Value
(quantitative  None                 2                             3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            03/31/2011                    09/30/2012
Comments      Achieved


﻿(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13: Management and M&E systems installed and operational at ANSES
Value
To be taken at the
(quantitative                    .  100%                          100%
or ualtatve)beginning of the project.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/01/2005            12/31/2008                    12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Achieved in 2009.
achievement)
Indicator 14: Communications strategy
Communication
Value
 Lack of clearly defined  strategy defined,        Communication
(quantitative..
communications strategy adopted and                 strategy in place.
or Qualitative)
completed.
Date achieved 06/01/2005            06/30/2007                    11/30/2009
Comments      1
Achieved. Self defined target, following completion of strategy: 100% awareness
(incl. %
.e   e     of ANSES initiatives. Achieved: 90% awareness
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR
No.                         DO                     IP             Disbursements
Archived
(USD millions)
1    06/15/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 0.00
2    06/30/2006       Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                0.00
3    02/02/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 0.06
4    08/01/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 1.56
5    02/19/2008        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 3.52
6    07/23/2008        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 3.52
7    01/30/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 6.71
8    10/01/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 6.81
9    01/27/2010        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 7.57
10    11/28/2010        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                 8.40
11   07/05/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 8.65
12   01/21/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                14.02
13   06/25/2012        Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory          14.02


﻿H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Aimrount
Restructunng     Board        strc   i    Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
esrCtur     Approved                  Restructuring     Key ( lamme& lode
PDO Change    DO      IP      in SD
mifflai
Closing date of loan extended
by 18 months (from March31,
011 7/2011                  S      S          865   2011to September 30, 2012)
Loan proceeds re-allocated
between expenditure categories.
09/27 2012                  S     MAS        1402   Loan proceeds re-allocated
between expenditure categories.
L Disbursement Profile
Original    Formally Revised -- Actual
30-
25-
20-
15-
0-
-                  ..**,          -    ,,          ,,   -    ,,
o      I     I    I     I   a     a    a     a    a     a    a     a    aI


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     At the time of project design, Argentina was recovering from its deepest political and
economic crisis in generations, with gross domestic product (GDP) falling by 10.9 percent in
2002. The social impact of the crisis had been enormous. Poverty reached unprecedented high
levels, growing by roughly 20 percentage points to 57 percent in 2002, and unemployment
increased to over 20 percent in 2002. Argentina's economy started to rebound strongly in 2003
and supported by prudent macroeconomic policies, this upturn continued into 2004. However,
while poverty stabilized, at the end of 2004 it still persisted at a high level of 40 percent.
2.     Following the crisis, Argentina faced the challenge of securing sustainable long-term
growth for equitable economic and social development while also supporting greater social
expenditure, assisting employment creation, and enhancing living conditions. These challenges
required effective governance, strong institutions, and efficient and transparent management of
public policy. The Government, recognizing these needs, expressed its commitment to
strengthening governance and state modernization to help the state provide better services in a
more efficient, transparent, and accountable way.
3.     ANSES, the National Social Security Administration, was created in 1991 as a semi-
autonomous and decentralized institution with the fusion of independent pension administrations
and family allowances agencies. It constitutes the administrative pillar of the social security
system, managing and paying Argentina's social security benefits, and depends functionally of
the Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security. ANSES is one of the largest public
sector institutions in Argentina 1. Most importantly, ANSES administers the public pension pillar,
which at the time of design represented more than 60 percent of its expenditure.
4.     The Social Security Secretariat (SSS) is the unit of the Ministry of Labor, Employment
and Social Security responsible for designing and monitoring social security policies and
programs, as well as supervising the implementing agencies (including ANSES). Although the
SSS was given a key role in the oversight of the social security system, including its coverage,
financing and oversight, it had experienced a continuous decline in budget, staffing and policy
impact. At design, it had only 42 staff members (12 civil servants and 30 consultants, which were
largely financed by the Bank and agencies under the Secretariat's supervision).
5.     To support its institutional effectiveness and help ANSES address key challenges, such as
efficiency and transparency, the Bank supported the agency in areas including fraud and error
control, provincial pension fund transfer, improvement of client service quality, and institutional
strengthening through the "National Pension Administration Technical Assistance Loan"
(ANSES I) (US$ 20 million, P046821). Initiated in 1997, the loan helped ANSES to undertake
significant institutional reforms which increased its management capacity. During this time,
ANSES moved from an institution perceived as highly inefficient, nontransparent and poorly
managed, to an institution perceived as having substantially improved social security
2
administration, with important efficiency and transparency challenges nevertheless remaining.
6.     The ANSES II project was seen as a means to enhance public sector management by
focusing on a key service delivery agency and to build demonstration and multiplication effects to
1 At design, ANSES managed two-thirds of total federal social expenditure, employed more than 7,000 and
covered 7 million citizens, or about 20 percent of the population.
2 Project Appraisal Document (PAD), page 2
1


﻿replicate similar institutional strengthening initiatives elsewhere. Bank involvement was
supported by three factors. First, given its size and population coverage, ANSES presented a
central target for state modernization to improve service-delivery and help restore credibility in
the public sector. Second, following the ANSES I project, there was demand from ANSES, the
Ministry of Labor, Employment and Social Security, as well as the Ministry of Economy and the
Chief of Cabinet Office for the Bank's expertise to solidify and expand ANSES I's institutional
achievements through a follow up operation. Finally, the Bank was also in a unique position to
continue its partnership with ANSES to deepen public sector reform in Argentina by building
upon approximately US$3.18 billion in relevant International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) projects (See Annex 10).
7.     The objectives of the project were fully aligned with those of the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 27340-AR, discussed by the Board on April 15, 2004), of which
the third pillar promoted better governance by improving accountability and transparency, and the
ANSES II project was included within the US$2 billion CAS lending program at the request of
the authorities. The project was also in line with key recommendations of recent economic work
on Argentina, including the 2003 Public Expenditure Review (Report No. 25991-AR), the 2002
Country Financial Accountability Assessment and the 2001 Country Procurement Assessment
Report.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
8.     Building on the achievements of the first operation, the project development objective
was to enhance service-delivery by ANSES by improving its efficiency, effectiveness,
transparency and accountability through institutional reengineering, fraud and error detection,
change management and greater internal and external oversight, as well as institutional
strengthening of the Social Security Secretariat.
9.     In particular, the specific objectives of the project were to:
(i) consolidate and expand selected organizational reforms of ANSES through business process
reengineering, integration and automation of core processes, functions, and products, and
information and communication technology (ICT) investments for continuous dynamic change
with a view to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of service-delivery;
(ii) support the institutional strengthening of the Social Security Secretariat (SSS) to enhance its
policymaking and oversight functions, strengthen the accountability of ANSES and other social
security institutions, and promote outreach to other stakeholders;
(iii) enhance access to information and exchange of information, help fraud and error detection in
benefit determination and liquidation, and promote effective channels for citizen engagement and
oversight, with a view to improve internal and external transparency and citizen participation; and
(iv) promote change management, innovation, and dissemination of good management practices
to enhance project performance and sustainability.
2


﻿1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
10.    Neither the PDO   nor the PDO   indicators were formally revised. However, the
methodology used to measure the reduction in error rates was changed during implementation.3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
11.    In the long term, the ultimate beneficiaries of the institutional strengthening of ANSES
and its resulting increased efficiency and effectiveness would be the members of civil society that
receive benefits administered by the agency. The more immediate target groups of project
activities included ANSES and SSS staff and governmental and non-governmental entities
engaged in social security issues (including civil society).
1.5 Original Components (as approved)
12.    Component 1- Institutional Effectiveness of ANSES (Bank financing: US$16.1 million,
Counterpart financing: US$4 million) - This component aimed at increasing efficiency and
effectiveness of ANSES through the design of a new strategy, reengineering and automation of
core business processes, a redesign of the organizational structure and the necessary enabling
mechanisms to support these changes in the corporate culture.
13.    Component 2 - Institutional Effectiveness of the Social Security Secretariat (Bank
financing: US$2 million, Counterpart financing: US$1 million) - The second component aimed to
promote the institutional strengthening of the SSS to enhance its managerial and technical
capacity for greater oversight of social security institutions.
14.    Component 3 -Transparency and Participation (Bank financing: US$4.1 million,
Counterpart financing: US$3.8 million) - The third component aimed at enhancing the
transparency of ANSES by improving access to and exchange of information, particularly
through improved fraud and error detection, litigation control, cross-checking of beneficiary data
with other institutions and social accountability mechanisms for beneficiaries and other
stakeholders.
15.    Component 4 - Change management (Bank financing: US$1.5 million, Counterpart
financing: US$2.3 million) - The fourth component was designed to ensure sustainability of
organizational reforms, and included overall project management and specific change
management instruments, such as a communications strategy and dissemination of best practices.
1.6 Revised Components
16.    Components were not revised during project implementation.
1.7 Other significant changes
17.    The Loan Agreement was expected to be signed and effective by July 5, 2006. Following
delays in the issuance of a Government Decree approving the terms of the agreement, the Loan
Agreement was signed on July 14, 2006. In October 2006, the effectiveness deadline was moved
from October 12 to December 31, 2006 so that the Borrower could fully meet the effectiveness
conditions. The project became effective on November 16, 2006, following a Bank waiver of the
3 As first reported in the November 2010 Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR)), the
methodology was changed from measuring "percentage of errors in calculation and application of norms
over total errors" to measuring "the level of quantitative error in pension reports".
3


﻿term of the Loan Agreement that stipulated that a Steering Committee be in operation at the time
of effectiveness. This waiver was later extended, and the Committee was never operational.
18.    Delays in project implementation due to the delayed effectiveness of the loan and the
large-scale internal reorganization of ANSES in 2008, required the extension of the project
closing from its original date of March 31, 2011. A Level Two restructuring, moving the closing
date to September 30, 2012, was approved on January 17, 2011. The project was restructured
again on September 27, 2012 to re-allocate loan proceeds between expenditure categories.
19.    Over the implementation period, several adjustments were made to re-distribute loan
proceeds between expenditure categories. On May 7, 2007, US$565,000 was shifted from
unallocated to training, following the identification of necessary training as part of project
programs. On August 14, 2009 changes were made to re-allocate loan proceeds from the goods,
training, and unallocated categories to the consultant and non-consultant services categories, in
order to support implementation of the Enterprise Resource Management (ERP) system. Finally,
as noted above, on September 27, 2012, loan proceeds from goods, training, and non-consultant
services were reallocated to consulting services, in order to support implementation of Systems,
Applications and Products in Data Processing (SAP) and new activities prioritized in response to
ANSES's new responsibilities and the formulation of its 2009-2011 strategic plan.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
20.    The Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-2) that was conducted in 2010
assessed the overall Quality of Design and Supervision as Satisfactory. The design of the project
reflected and built on relevant analytic and sector work as well as lessons learned from a
preceding operation (ANSES I), and laid out measurable and achievable targets. The project was
seen as a logical continuation of the preceding operation, reflecting appreciation of the need to
solidify and expand institutional achievements, making them more sustainable, as well as
recognition that benefit-award and service delivery could be improved further. The Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) set up under ANSES I continued to serve as such for ANSES II.
However, in contrast to the first operation in which ANSES was the only counterpart, ANSES II
also included the SSS and intended for a Steering Committee led by the Social Security Secretary
(discussed further below). Project design responded to a general interest for more transparency
and accountability in social security services, opening opportunities for deeper changes in social
security management and coordination of the social security system.
21.    The Bank team opted to limit the scope of the operation to support ongoing ANSES's
reform strategy and institutional modernization process through institutional strengthening
activities and not include any policy-related initiative. Components 1, 3 and 4 focused on
ANSES, addressing the issues of enhancing institutional effectiveness and efficiency, improving
transparency and access to and exchange of information, and supporting change management
instruments. These components experienced    relatively fewer difficulties during  their
implementation. In contrast, the implementation of the second component, focused on the SSS,
proved to be more challenging, experiencing significant delays during the life of the project
22.    During Project design and preparation, extensive stakeholder consultations were
undertaken on the project's design, objectives, and scope. These included close dialogue with
other public institutions (e.g. Ministries of Economy, Labor, Interior, Social Development, and
Chief of Cabinet Office), the private sector (e.g. private pension funds), multilateral institutions
(e.g. International Monetary Fund (IMF), IDB, United Nations Development Program (UNDP)),
4


﻿bilateral institutions (e.g. German Agency for Technical Coordination (GTZ), Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA)), and a variety of civil society organizations (e.g. Transparency
International, Social Forum for the Transparency of Argentina).
23.    The Bank team identified various risks for project implementation, including reluctance
to change, potential limited sustainability and accountability, limited inter-institutional
coordination, and the use of project funds for purposes incompatible with project objectives.
Accordingly, the Bank's team took appropriate measures to mitigate these risks through adequate
project design, including proper sequencing of institutional reengineering, policy orientation,
focus on job satisfaction, use of innovative private sector management and change management
tools, quality analytic work, and a strong focus on procurement, fraud and error detection, internal
auditing and external oversight.
24.    The risk of limited accountability of ANSES proved to be more critical. Design
measures, including the proposed Steering Committee to provide strategic leadership and oversee
project implementation, were intended to address these issues. Under the leadership of the SSS,
the Steering Committee was to be composed of representatives of the SSS, Chief of Cabinet
Office, and the Ministry of Economy, and serve a coordinating role. However, the waiver of the
Steering Committee prevented these measures from working effectively. The QALP-2 report
highlighted that this risk should have been rated as a high risk (not moderate as in the PAD) and
the establishment of the Steering Committee should have been a condition of Board presentation.
2.2 Implementation
25.    The QALP-2 assessed the overall Quality of Implementation as Moderately Satisfactory
due mainly to the disbursement lag by FY09. Initially, the project was delayed as a result of an
11-month delay in the approval process by Argentina's Government. Additional time was
required to reach an agreement on the Steering Committee.4
26.    The large scale internal reorganization experienced by ANSES in 2008 initially absorbed
critical resources and directed the attention of the agency away from project implementation.
After the enactment of Law 26.425, ANSES assumed an expanded economic and political role as
a result of the creation of the Integrated Social Security System (SIPA), financed through
contributions from active workers, employers, taxes, revenues and other sources, and the
incorporation of new social benefits under ANSES management (including the Universal
Childhood Entitlement and the program Conectar Igualdad). After the appointment of new top
management positions, and the approval of ANSES's Strategic Plan for 2009-2011, project
implementation gained new momentum. This, however, also involved setting new priorities and
revising the activities financed under the project, and ANSES' own resources also grew
significantly over this period (from approximately US$21.7 billion in 2008 to about US$46.4
billion in 2012). Project implementation prioritized the integration of internal processes
(Component 1) over transparency and accountability (Component 3). The ERP project received
additional resources, concentrating most of the project resources. New activities were agreed with
the Bank's team (including the Social Security Observatory, development of e-learning platform,
and transparency of procurement processes). Adjustments in the allocation of loan proceeds were
related to the assumption of ANSES' new responsibilities.
27.    It is important to differentiate between reform progress and achievement of results, and
disbursements since they do not necessarily follow the same pattern. In the case of ANSES,
4 At that time, in Argentina, the average effectiveness time from Board approval to project effectiveness
was 13 months.
5


﻿counterpart funding was used to finance some of the activities in advance, and the limited rate of
disbursements in many periods during the life of the project was the result of delays in the
submission of reimbursement requests to the Bank, and the financing allocation rules for the loan
(30% IBRD financing for consulting services and 100% for equipment). Delays in procurement
processes and a high proportion of consulting services also account for the disbursement pattern.
28.    Following effectiveness, project implementation progressed well, making substantial
progress on PDO indicators 1 and 3, and achieving PDO indicator 2 by 2009 even as only 30
percent of the loan had been disbursed. By the end of 2011, the disbursement ratio reached 56%.
However, disbursements were delayed between January and June 2012, and no action plan was
prepared for the execution of unallocated resources. The Moderately Satisfactory implementation
rating in the Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) in early 2012 reflected this fact,
with approximately US$ 5.5 million not contracted, including most of the funds assigned to
Component 2.
Table 1. Last ISR Ratings (June 2012)
Rating
Progress Towards PDO Achievement       Satisfactory
Overall Implementation Progress        Moderately Satisfactory
Component 1                            Satisfactory
Component 2                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
Component 3                            Satisfactory
Component 4                            Satisfactory
29.    Core initiatives related to ANSES's institutional strengthening (the largest loan
component, representing approximately 88 percent of aggregate loan resources after the final
restructuring), transparency and accountability, and change management proceeded well. But the
component related to the SSS (Component 2) experienced implementation problems as described
above. The Moderately Unsatisfactory implementation rating reflects that while one of the
intermediate outcome indicators identified for the SSS in the project was attained, the project did
not finance most of the activities planned for this component. Difficulties in the implementation
of this component can be explained in part by the institutional arrangements, as described below.
By the closing date, disbursements reached US$ 16.7 million (66.8%) of the loan proceeds (US$
18.05 million or 72.2% of loan proceeds at closure of the loan account in February 2013). Total
disbursements and commitments linked to Component 2 were below US$ 250,000, leaving at
least US$ 1.75 million unassigned.
30.    At design, the Project benefited from strong ownership by ANSES, building upon the
results of the previous operation, and ownership remained high at the management level. Overall,
ANSES II was successful in building greater ownership within the agency and internalizing the
reform program through the change management component. However, rotation of top managers
within ANSES and SSS, changes in project coordinator and changes within the Bank's team'
caused project implementation to slow and even stall. Although the activities financed by the
project sometimes departed from those envisioned originally, Supervision missions and Action
Plans agreed with the Bank on annual basis helped to provide structure for the revised project
s Top management positions changed four times during the life of the project, and the project coordinator
changed five times between July 2005 and November 2007. On the Bank side, the Task Team Leader
(TTL) changed four times during project implementation and there were several changes in the
procurement specialist assigned to the project.
6


﻿activities. The operation resumed steady progress in 2009, when the 2009-2011 Strategic Action
Plan brought renewed momentum to the reform process and project implementation.
31.    During implementation, project efforts to strengthen and enhance the SSS's oversight
role met with limited success, it seems, both because the Steering Committee was never
operational and because of the implementation arrangements of the project. While the SSS was to
some extent strengthened in its technical and monitoring and evaluation capacities through the
project, its oversight role was not reinforced through a leadership role in the Steering Committee,
and Component 2 could not be implemented. The QALP-2 panel assessment conducted part way
through implementation questioned whether Component 2 should have been dropped. However,
the greater outward-looking focus of the project required the enhanced oversight by the policy-
making organ (the SSS) and, despite the implementation problems; there was sound rationale for
keeping the SSS as part of the project.
32.    The transition to country procurement systems part way through implementation played a
beneficial role in building institutional capacity and strengthening project sustainability, but did
result in some implementation delays.6 The project involved several significant procurement
processes for the acquisition of equipment, and delays partly due to some difficulties in the
procurement area of ANSES, high rotation of Bank procurement specialists, and differences
between the Bank and ANSES on the application of procurement guidelines and risk management
slowed down project implementation. These challenges were addressed by incorporating specific
activities aimed at strengthening procurement processes, with the ultimate goal of enhancing
transparency and preventing conflicts of interest.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
33.    Monitoring and evaluation of the project was assigned to the Project Coordination Unit,
ANSES Planning and Services Department, SSS, and external stakeholders, with additional
oversight from the Bank through supervision missions, mid-term reviews, and annual work plans.
PDO and intermediate results indicators were monitored and reported in ISRs. Internal and
external independent progress reviews were complemented by participatory M&E carried out by
stakeholders and civil society organizations to promote a greater sense of ownership.
34.     Some adjustments, including changes to indicators and end-targets were made to the
results framework as reported in ISRs during implementation (See Annex 2). These adjustments
responded to changes in activities implemented under project components (particularly
Component 2) and changes in ANSES's strategy of service delivery, and were intended to align
indicators with ANSES's information systems. However, as these changes were not formalized
through a restructuring, in this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), project outputs and
outcomes are measured against the framework laid out in the PAD.
35.    Substantively, the project emphasized an effective integration of M&E results into the
decision-making analysis by top management for a continuous enhancement of project and
institutional performance, building on the principles of both the use of country systems and
sustainability. The M&E framework for ANSES II relied on many of the performance indicators
6 Following the use of UNOPS as the procurement agency in ANSES I, the PAD for ANSES II anticipated
initial use of UNOPS' services, to be phased out during the implementation of the project as capacity was
built within ANSES to conduct the procurement processes itself. In March 2010, ANSES started
conducting procurement processes.
7


﻿developed and used by ANSES, and aimed to refine them through project implementation, as a
key part of component 1 and of overall support to change management under component 4.
Moreover, the project aimed at improving the monitoring and evaluation of the SSS (Component
2) by enhancing the capacity of the Secretariat to oversee the performance of social security
institutions, including ANSES, through the design and implementation of a monitoring and
evaluation system that gathered and assessed information in real time.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
36.    During Project implementation, Financial Management (FM) arrangements remained in
compliance with Bank procedures. Overall satisfactory FM performance has been evidenced
throughout the project life. Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were submitted in a timely manner
to the Bank. However, some delays in the submission to the Bank of the annual audited financial
statements, as well as some internal control weaknesses have been observed, although they did
not refer to any substantial accountability issue. Qualified FM staff during the Project life has
been one of the FM main strengths.
37.    Procurement through the project was carefully monitored and subject to annual ex-post
reviews. Overall satisfactory procurement performance has been evidenced throughout the project
life. The departure of UNOPS as the formal procurement agent in June 2010 did not affect the
overall procurement rating.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
38.    At this time, there are currently no immediate plans for further World Bank support for
ANSES. The view expressed by the Bank team was that ending project funding was the
conclusion of ongoing and flexible Bank's support to strengthen the institutional effectiveness of
ANSES since 1997, transforming ANSES into a customer-centered, more effective and efficient
public institution. Delivery of social services in Argentina will benefit from the project's legacies
of faster social security benefit provision, more accurate reporting, restructured institutions and
processes, and increased transparency and access to information.
39.    The areas of reform pursued under this project continue to be of importance and remain
on the agenda. Several initiatives are expected to be maintained and further institutionalized after
the project's closing. ANSES's next institutional steps include, among others: (i) consolidating
ongoing support to ERP implementation, improving its stabilization as well as customizing SAP
to respond to specific demands from different areas of ANSES; (ii) incorporating additional
human resources to speed up and complete the digitalization process of the physical archive, as
well as beginning the decentralization of the digitalization process to the peripheral archive units;
(iii) strengthening the capacity of the Social Security Observatory to process information, thus
responding more quickly to ANSES's analytical needs; and (iv) further developing and
actualizing the e-learning platform to consolidate it as a critical tool for staff training.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
40.    The project remains highly relevant since it has contributed to the institutional
strengthening of one of the largest public institutions in Argentina, both in terms of the volume of
social expenditure it manages (approximately 43.5% of total federal government expenditure in
2011) and the population it serves (it manages social benefits for approximately 8 million
8


﻿people). Moreover, ANSES's importance has increased over the years due to its enhanced its role
in social policy and new responsibilities through the management of SIPA.
41.    The project's objectives were fully relevant to country priorities and consistent with the
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2010-2012 (Report No. 48476-AR, discussed by the
Board on June 9, 2009) and several of its results were highlighted in the 2010-2012 CPS
Progress Report (Report No. 59222-AR, discussed by the Board on April 4, 2011). The three
pillars of the CPS (sustained growth with equity, social inclusion, and improved governance) are
aligned with the Government's development agenda, which aimed at maintaining economic
growth and stability with a special focus into institution building and increasing regulation, and
the prioritization of social safety nets and job creation. The Bank's engagement yielded tangible
results, particularly as a result of consistency over time in strategic areas and priorities. This was
the case under the improved governance pillar, where the main results occurred in the area of
efficiency of public institutions, an area prioritized by the client.
42.    The resulting shift in the country/Bank emphasis toward improving the efficiency of
national and sub-national institutions is fully consistent with the relevance of the project. The
ANSES II operation is part of the Bank's ongoing engagement in public sector management
strengthening and contributes to improving the quality of public expenditure and enhancing
service delivery outcomes and trust in institutions.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
43.    As generally described by its PDO statement, the project could be described as having
largely met its project development objective, as also reflected in the last ISR PDO rating.
Overall, the operation contributed to enhanced service-delivery by ANSES through the
reengineering and automation of core business processes, integration of systems, improved
organizational structure and decentralized service delivery. These improvements significantly
reduced the time in benefit-award and client-service, improved beneficiary satisfaction and
generated savings as a result of more efficient internal management processes.
44.    The project only fully achieved two out of five PDO indicators (PDO indicators 1 and 2),
which were linked to Component 1. The two PDO indicators linked to Components 3 and 4 made
significant progress towards the targets set out in the PAD (PDO indicators 3 and 5). PDO
indicator 4 was not achieved, corresponding to the largely unexecuted Component 2. (See Table 2
below and the Outcome Indicators Table in Annex2) Additional Intermediate Objectives, such as
the establishment of a Claim Management System and Communication Strategy were achieved
(see Annex 2 for details).
45.    It could be argued that the project achieved the two most important, outward-oriented
service delivery objectives - the reduction in the average time in the provision of new benefits and
increasing users' satisfaction. The average times for service provision decreased substantially: for
new social security benefits, from 140 days in 2006 to 74 days in 2012; for new retirement
benefits, from 66 days in 2005 to 19 days in 2012; and for processing death benefits, from 170
days to 66 days via service center, and from 60 days via phone to only 5 days via Web between
2005 and 2012. Beneficiaries' satisfaction rates with service delivery have significantly improved
from 45% in 2005 to 86.2% in 2012. Since 2007, online self-service kiosks have contributed to
enhance ANSES territorial presence and capacity for service delivery (120 kiosks are currently
connected to ANSES). (See Annex 2 for details on outputs and outcomes by component.)
9


﻿Table 2. PDO Indicators, Achievement Summary
Indicator
PDO   1. Satisfaction rates of service-delivery  Achieved.
(measured by % of beneficiaries that rate ANSES
services "Satisfactory")
PDO   2. Reduction of average time in the   Achieved.
provision of new benefits
PDO 3. Reduction of error rates in determination  Partially achieved. PAD Baseline: 74%. Last
of benefits (measured by %    of errors in  measure: 34% in 2009 (More than achieved 2009
calculation and application of norms over total Target of 37%); End target 27%. Indicator
errors)                                     discontinued because methodology changed and
was replaced by the level of quantitative error in
pension reports. End target (unofficial) for new
error indicator: 7%. Final value: 7.67%.
PDO 4. Improved disclosure and dissemination  Not achieved.
of studies to regulated agencies, Ministry of
Labor and Employment, and general public as
measured by stakeholders survey satisfaction
PDO   5. Surveys to employees and other Partially achieved. PAD Baseline: To be taken at
stakeholders that reflect support of project beginning of the project. Last measure: 78.5% in
activities and openness to change           2011; end target: 90%
3.3 Efficiency
46.    As an institutional capacity building project, quantitative projection of rates of return are
not applicable and were not developed during project preparation. However, as mentioned in
previous sections, there were substantial efficiency gains derived from the redesign and
automation of processes, improvements in the quality of service-delivery, fraud and error
detection and improvements of internal and external control, auditing, procurement and
evaluation. These gains include reduced average time in the provision of new social security
benefits, reduced average time in the provision of death benefits, reduced average time in the new
provision of retirement benefits, improved level of quantitative error in pension reports, and
reduced percentage of error in the determination of social benefits, among others. (See Annex 3
for additional discussion.) The January 2009 ISR reported savings for 2008 by detection of fraud
and error as a result of controls undertaken estimated at AR$63 million (about US$17 million).
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
47.    Based on the results achieved under Components 1, 3 and 4, which accounted for 92
percent of loan resources as planned at design, and given the continued relevance of the project as
the Government has sought to increase the efficiency of public institutions, the overall project
outcome could be rated as satisfactory. However, the project outcome is rated moderately
satisfactory based on the poor performance of Component 2, and the overall progress made on
project indicators. As discussed above, the project achieved two out of five PDO indicators, and
two indicators made significant progress towards their final targets. Out of 19 outcome and output
indicators defined originally in the PAD, 9 were achieved, and 6 were partially achieved.
48.    In addition to the significant advances specifically under ANSES II, the cumulative
reforms under ANSES I and II deserve highlighting. They have sustained the modernization and
institutional strengthening of one of Argentina's major public agencies, supporting the
10


﻿implementation of significant institutional reforms that have enhanced the agency's management
capacity, efficiency and quality of service delivery. A public agency with no customer-service
culture and limited institutional effectiveness has been transformed into a more transparent,
client-oriented, adaptive agency with an integrating vision and mission, integrated internal
processes and systems, as well as the appropriate infrastructure to expand and facilitate access to
services and efficiently manage the pension system and key social benefits.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
49.    By improving management of the different social programs administered by ANSES, the
project has had a significant social impact. It has contributed to improving the quality of life of
vulnerable sectors of the population, such as the elderly and social security beneficiaries, by
enhancing the access to and quality of service-delivery through the timely and more efficient
delivery of pension benefits. The project has strengthened the participation of beneficiaries
through a variety of outreach and social accountability mechanisms that enhance their voice and
increased access to information, enhancing the transparency of Argentina's pension system and
key social programs and improving public knowledge of the social security system.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
50.    The project's institutional development impact has been high, contributing to deepening
and consolidating the modernization of one of the largest public institutions in Argentina. It has
supported significant improvements in the internal management and service-delivery of the social
security system, including integration and automation of processes, improved information
systems and technological management, infrastructure for expanded access to services, enhanced
training of staff, implementation of a comprehensive career plan, monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms in place, stronger and more transparent procurement processes, improved
communication strategy, enhanced access to information on social benefits and the social security
system, and more transparent and accountable service-delivery..
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
51.    There were several valuable - albeit unintended - outcomes, both internal and external,
that resulted from this operation. Internally, these outcomes included: (i) Improved
communication between different internal areas in ANSES; (ii) Changes in ANSES
organizational structure as a result of the project implementation, including: the creation of a
Coordination Unit within the Directorate of Training to follow up and ensure continuity of the e-
learning platform project, creation of Directorate of Innovation to support the ERP, and the
integration of the Directorate of Studies and the Observatory of the Social Security; (iii) Reduced
training costs as a result of the adoption of e-learning tools; (iv) Staff acknowledgement of the
added value of ERP project and increasing demand for related products and customization; (v)
Changes in ANSES organizational and management culture and optimization of processes
beyond the technical impact of project-financed activities (e.g., ERP and Observatory).
Externally, the project implementation also produced some favorable unintended outcomes
including strengthened collaboration with national universities and demand from universities to
sign cooperation agreements with ANSES.
11


﻿3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
52.    A survey of employees and other stakeholders was conducted annually to assess support
of project objectives and activities as well as openness to change. Final survey results for 2012
were expected in January 2013 but are not yet available. Both employees and stakeholders
became increasingly open to change and supportive of the project objectives and activities.
Internal support levels increased from 10% in 2006 to 60% in 2010 and to 78.5% in 2011. Almost
86 percent of personnel considered ANSES as a model agency for the national public
administration by the end of 2011. (See Annex 4 for details.)
53.    ANSES's beneficiaries have also shown increasing levels of satisfaction with service
delivery. Beneficiaries' satisfaction rates with service delivery have significantly improved from
45% in 2005 to 86.2% in June 2012. They also appreciated the project's support of social
accountability and access to information mechanisms, which facilitated the submission and
management of claims, as well as social oversight on ANSES's performance and service delivery.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
54.    Several factors suggest that the development outcomes achieved under the project are
likely to be maintained. Since the early stages of project implementation, ANSES has
demonstrated its commitment to institutionalizing efforts towards achieving project objectives
beyond the scope of the project, by working within its internal management structure and
strengthening internal procurement and financial management functions. Significant changes in
administrative culture are reported in relation to several business processes, including the SAP
system for ERP processes and the digitalization of records. The development of the SAP system
represented a significant internal change in ANSES's procedures. Such changes have been well-
received by internal users (and the Ministry of Economy's requests for information on the system
demonstrates its impact beyond ANSES). Therefore, a roll-back of the system is not expected.
Additionally, while designed for ERP processes, the SAP system was designed to also serve as a
basis for future implementation of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) processes,
demonstrating a strategic commitment to project objectives beyond the project's formal scope.
55.    In spite of these considerations, some risks to the development outcome remain. The
institutional dynamics which complicated the implementation of project activities aimed at
strengthening the Social Security Secretariat still remain, suggesting that further progress in this
area, at least in the near future, is not particularly likely. Moreover, while the indicators linked to
Component 3 have all been met or mostly met, the extent to which a culture of greater public
participation and access to information has been strengthened is not as clear.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
56.    The ANSES II project was at design, highly relevant to Argentina's economic, social and
institutional environment and needs and the project's objectives have remained such throughout
implementation. Following upon the successful implementation of the ANSES I project, ANSES
II was developed as a result of demand from multiple agencies, and was designed to build upon
both the Bank's and the counterpart's past experiences and technical knowledge. Design drew
upon a number of innovative management tools which were appreciated by the client and an
enhanced understanding of the institution's challenges as identified in the first project. The M&E
12


﻿framework allowed for institutional continuity through the incorporation of some indicators
already in use by ANSES, while also integrating additional analyses through impact evaluations
and user surveys. The planned transition from UNOPS to counterpart procurement was designed
to facilitate project implementation while also building counterpart procurement capacity.
57.    While the PAD recognized the risks associated with the institutional context, it seems to
have underestimated the challenges that it would pose for implementation arrangements. Had the
Steering Committee become operational, the planned organizational structure could have helped
to address the institutional challenges, as conceived at design. As noted in the QALP-2 report,
there was sound rationale for including the SSS as part of the project and trying to address the
sector's regulatory challenges. However, the potential for impact on project implementation
should have been rated as a high risk and the mitigation measures thought through accordingly.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
58.    The Bank team played a proactive role in supervising the implementation of this project.
Formal supervision missions were conducted one to three times per year, and there was a frequent
engagement with the counterpart and regular support to implementation provided from the local
office, either from the TTL7 or a local consultant. During the period in which loan effectiveness
was delayed, the Bank worked with the counterpart to advance project implementation to the
extent possible - progress which was facilitated by the task team leader's previous involvement in
the implementation of ANSES I. Advances were made in the preparation of the Operational
Manual, discussions about several requests for no-objections occurred, and the selection of
UNOPS as a procurement agent was reviewed.
59.    Throughout implementation, the Bank team tried to flexibly respond to client demands,
facilitating project advances as changing circumstances required a re-evaluation of project
activities. However, the Bank team failed in restructuring the project in order to formally change
the indicators during implementation. While some changes to the results framework were
informally agreed with the counterpart during implementation, these changes were not formalized
through a restructuring. Such a restructuring could have allowed the project to meet PDO
indicator #3 (by accounting for the change in indicator methodology) and have come very close
to achieving PDO indicator #5 (which had a final reading of 78.5% against an informally changed
target of 80%). The Bank reached out to SSS and other Government counterparts several times
during project implementation to try to fast-track, restructure or even drop Component 2, but such
changes were not feasible at the time. The strengthening of SSS and improving ANSES's
accountability is still an open agenda and the Government was reluctant to abandon it.
60.    Concerns about procedural controls at ANSES required a proactive approach.
Throughout design and implementation, the Bank team worked closely with the counterpart to
ensure that proper procedures were in place and adhered to in order to guarantee the effective use
of project funds.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7 Two of the project's four TTLs spent large amounts of time in Argentina or were based in Argentina
during part of project implementation, which helped to support policy dialogue and project implementation.
13


﻿61.    Given the explanation above, the overall Bank performance is judged to be moderately
satisfactory. While the project was not designed to completely mitigate against the institutional
challenges that complicated coordination between ANSES and the Social Security Secretariat, the
team played an active and proactive role in project supervision, allowing the project to
successfully navigate unexpected challenges that arose and address potential difficulties before
they reached a level that put achievement of project development objectives at significant risk.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
62.    Overall, the Government demonstrated a strong commitment to achieving the project's
development objective, working with the Bank team to adjust to changes in country
circumstances that developed over the course of the loan. Project implementation did get off to a
slow start, with a six-month lag in effectiveness beyond the expected date as a result of inter-
agency differences on the terms of the national decree needed to approve the terms of the Loan
Agreement. Despite these challenges, the Government demonstrated its commitment to the
project by moving forward on preparatory activities while waiting for the signature of the Loan
Agreement and requesting a waiver on the operation of the Steering Committee. The Government
also demonstrated its commitment through its work to adjust the project to a changed domestic
context, following the nationalization of private pension funds in December 2008.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
ANSES: As the executing agency, ANSES demonstrated its commitment to the achievement of
the project's development objective through its efforts to adjust to the institution's changing
circumstances throughout project implementation and to meet project development objectives in
accordance with Bank implementation procedures. Changes to team composition and staffing
issues posed some challenges in project implementation. Between July 2005 and November 2007,
the project coordinator changed five times. Staff changes contributed to producing differing
opinions about project implementation. These differences made it more difficult to reach internal
consensus on project purchases and thus contributed to implementation delays.
63.    Social Security Secretariat: In spite of not using the majority of project financing
allocated to Component 2, the SSS demonstrated its overall commitment to the PDO by carrying
out some of the activities detailed in the loan agreement. Implementation faced some challenges
due to both changes in authorities at the SSS and a weakened level of ownership by the agency.
However, following the failure of the procurement process for the biggest project that the SSS
wanted to implement (a survey), the Secretariat demonstrated its commitment through its efforts
to reorganize the component based upon a narrower scope. Ultimately, this was not possible
because of overlaps between the SSS and the Social Security Observatory's initiatives.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
64.    Although the project faced some implementation challenges, the Borrower demonstrated
strong commitment to the achievement of the PDO and the fulfillment of intended activities.
While issues between the agencies involved initially delayed project implementation, they
eventually reached a solution that allowed for loan effectiveness, the implementation of activities
and the achievement of outputs under the three components for which ANSES was responsible.
14


﻿6. Lessons Learned
65.    In addition to project specific lessons, several general lessons were evidenced during
implementation. One, slower than expected disbursements should not automatically be equated
with a lack of commitment to project objectives. In cases where powerful and well-resourced
agencies such as ANSES can advance the funding of some activities, a focus on project
results can provide a more accurate snapshot of project performance than disbursement
rates and reflect the value of the Bank's support on a technical, rather than funding, basis.
66.     Two, the regular, physical presence of Bank team members can play an important role
in facilitating implementation in challenging conditions. In the case of ANSES II, this presence
facilitated dialogue and essential, regular interactions with the client in a manner that allowed
implementation progress to be closely followed and any issues that arose to be dealt with
immediately.
67.     Project-specific lessons include:
68.    Implementation of the ANSES II project advanced successfully, in spite of several
challenges, aided by ANSES's strong ownership of the project. While regulatory changes like
those experienced in 2008, or the staffing changes that occurred on both the Bank and the
counterpart's side likely complicated implementation, implementation progress was supported by
the existence of a broad-based commitment that was not solely tied to the existence of a single
champion for reform or the maintenance of the same regulatory framework.
69.    In addition to ANSES's ownership, the project's alignment with ANSES's long term
strategic objectives was also criticalfor the project's success. The continuing strategic alignment
between ANSES's institutional objectives and those of the project in spite of changing domestic
circumstances reflect the underlying strength and time-consistency of project design.
70.    When designing projects which involve multiple institutions, it is important to be
pragmatic about coordination mechanisms and institutions' respective capacities. In the case of
ANSES II, it seems that project design could have benefited from a deeper analysis of the
political factors that might complicate inter-institutional coordination, the feasibility of
implementing some of the proposed activities, and their interaction with mitigation actions for
risk management. While the waiver of the Steering Committee's operation may have been viewed
as ultimately necessary to allow for loan effectiveness and does not appear to have impacted
implementation of Components 1, 3 and 4, the waiver's overall impact on project
implementation, and particularly Component 2, should have been contemplated in design.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The borrower did not provide any comments to the final draft. The borrower provided informal
comments to an earlier version of the report that were incorporated.
(b) Cofinanciers: n/a
(c) Other partners and stakeholders: n/a
15


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
Components                            Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Appraisal Estimate                   Appraisal
Estimate (USD
(USD millions)
millions)
Component 1                        20.1            23.89          118.86
Component 2                         3.0             0.20          6.67
Component 3                         7.9             0.96          12.15
Component 4                         3.8             1.77          46.58
Total Baseline Cost     34.7             26.82         77.29
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Unallocated Funds                   2.5             0.0
Total Project Costs     37.2             26.82          72.10
Front-end fee PPF                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                  0.3             0.06
Total Financing Required      37.5            26.89          71.71
(b) Financing
Appraisal Actual/Latest
Type of    Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds
Cofinancing   (USD        (USD      Appraisal
millions)   millions)
Borrower                                 12.50       8.836      70.69
International Bank for
25.00       18.054     72.22
Reconstruction and Development
16


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The ANSES II project had four components.
Component 1- Institutional Effectiveness of ANSES (Bank financing: US$16.1 million,
Counterpart financing: US$4 million) - This component aimed at increasing efficiency and
effectiveness of ANSES through the design of a new strategy, reengineering and automation of
core business processes, a redesign of the organizational structure and the necessary enabling
mechanisms to support these changes in the corporate culture. It supported the following
subcomponents: (a) Strategic Management; (b) Reengineering of core business processes; (c)
Automation of core business processes and integration of systems; (d) Improvement of the
organizational structure and decentralized service-delivery. ANSES was responsible for executing
this component, which included an integrated Enterprise Resource Management (ERP) system.
Component 2 - Institutional Effectiveness of the Social Security Secretariat (Bank financing:
US$2 million, Counterpart financing: US$1 million) - The second component aimed to promote
the institutional strengthening of the Social Security Secretariat of the Ministry of Labor to
enhance its managerial and technical capacity for greater oversight of social security institutions,
supporting particularly the following subcomponents: (a) Strengthening the management capacity
of the Secretariat; (b) Strengthening the technical capacity of the Secretariat; and (c) Promoting
outreach to other public institutions, private sector and civil society. The Social Security
Secretariat was responsible for carrying out this component, with the assistance of ANSES in
disbursement and procurement.
Component 3 -Transparency and Participation (Bank financing: US$4.1 million, Counterpart
financing: US$3.8 million) - The third component aimed at enhancing the transparency of
ANSES by improving access to and exchange of information, particularly through improved
fraud and error detection, litigation control, cross-checking of beneficiary data with other
institutions and social accountability mechanisms for beneficiaries and other stakeholders,
supporting particularly the following subcomponents: (a) Fraud and error detection; (b)
Strengthening litigation control; and (c) Greater access to information. ANSES was responsible
for executing this component.
Component 4 - Change management (Bank financing: US$1.5 million, Counterpart financing:
US$2.3 million) - The fourth component was designed to ensure sustainability of organizational
reforms, and included overall project management and specific change management instruments,
such as a communications strategy and dissemination of best practices. It supported the following
subcomponents: (a) Project management; (b) Monitoring and evaluation; and (c) Change
Management. ANSES was responsible for executing this component.
Drawing on the Borrower Completion Report, the borrower project implementation reports, a
series of ISRs and other sources, the following summarizes results on the key outcome indicators,
followed by the main achievements under individual components and subcomponents. Reporting
of some indicators and targets were modified during implementation, as reflected in project ISRs
(see tables below for details). As mentioned in the main section however, as these changes were
not formalized, project outcomes are evaluated against the PAD framework.
17


﻿Outcome Indicators
Indicator                     Baseline value    End-project     Revised End-    Justification
Target value    project         (achieved)
(as defined in  Target value
the PAD)
Increased degree of satisfaction  45%           80%                             86.2%
for service delivery
Reduction of time in applying  140 days         90              74              74
for new social benefits
Reduction of error rates
-   in determination of      74%               27%             7%              34% (in 2009
benefits (measured by %                                                     versus year's
of errors in calculation and                                                target of
application of norms over                                                   37%)
total errors) (measured
through 2009)
-   Level of quantitative error                                                7.67%
in pension reports
(measured starting in
2010)
Improved disclosure and       0                 75%
dissemination of studies to
regulated agencies, Ministry of
Labor and Employment, and
general public as measured by
stakeholders survey
satisfaction*
Surveys to Employees and other  To be taken at  90%             80%             By end of
stakeholders that reflect support  project beginning.                           2011,
of project activities and     10% (in 2006                                      78.5%.**
openness to change            when the project
started)
* This indicator was no longer measured as Component 2's activities focused on subcomponent 2.
**** Final results available in January 2013.
Below, project outputs are organized according to each of the four components.
18


﻿Component 1: Institutional Stren2thenin2 of ANSES
This component aimed at increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of ANSES through the
design of a new strategy, reengineering and automation of core business processes, a redesign of
the organizational structure and the necessary enabling mechanisms to support these changes in
the corporate culture.
A core initiative for the institutional strengthening of ANSES was conducting a strategic and
organizational-functional diagnostic of the institution's planning and management oversight
processes. The inputs of the diagnostic were incorporated into the development of a revised and
updated strategic plan, which considered the impact of social security reforms and included
improved mechanisms for informing on the implementation of the annual operational plan.
The project financed the integration of internal and external management information and
implementation of 14 functional modules through an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
solution (Soluci6n Integral de Planificaci6n de Recursos Empresariales). This tool, customized
to the specific characteristics of ANSES, helped to optimize processes and enhanced access to
different types of management information, thus minimizing time and efficiency of decision-
making processes and improving internal audit and oversight. It has had a significant impact on
ANSES' inventory management as well as on internal audit processes, which can now access all
information through the ERP tool. The project also supported the acquisition of the equipment
needed for the implementation of the tool. Moreover, the project financed the integral
management of human resources through the migration to a new technological infrastructure and
the acquisition of new software. A new Directorate was established in December 2011 to support
ANSES's internal areas in the implementation of the ERP tool.
The project also contributed to improving ANSES's institutional capacity by financing the
migration to a new technological infrastructure and the acquisition of new software for the
integral management of human resources (peoplenet).
The automation of core business processes is supported by internal business infrastructure, such
as activities aiming at a paperless system. One key activity was the digitalization of ANSES's
central archive, which required the approval of internal norms (2008), development of a
digitalization plan, the purchase of equipment, building a new archive facility, development of
digitalization applications, and training. The project contributed to the digitalization of the
archive through the acquisition of equipment for digitalizing paper files. The digitalization builds
upon the modernization of the central archive (2004-2005), which allowed tracking files. The
digitalization has contributed to neutralizing the growth of the central archive and the network of
300 archives all over the country, reducing management times, increasing information and data
security, reducing storage costs, and reducing the need of physically moving files across the
country, thus reducing opportunities for losing them. The digitalization is facilitating easy access
and improving service delivery not only to internal users but also to external customers
(beneficiaries and other clients, such as courts).
The project enhanced the capacity of the Information and Technology Directorate to deliver
services and manage relations with beneficiaries through selective and strategic acquisitions of
equipment. These investments allowed for maximizing the impact of the normative changes that
affected ANSES by providing an efficient and effective response to the increased demand of
social security services, thus having a positive effect in terms of reducing the time in benefit-
award and client service.
19


﻿With project support, ANSES has developed an E-learning platform for delivery staff training.
The platform has been key for delivering compulsory staff training aimed at implementing a
comprehensive career plan that has reached 100% of staff. The platform has had a significant
impact in terms of redesigning training and reducing training costs in a large public institution.
Moreover, the platform is expected to play a critical role in facilitating the decentralization of
training.
The project also supported the creation of a Complaints and Suggestions Book for all ANSES
offices and Integral Attention Units (UDAls). Moreover, the project financed an analysis of the
information and complaints submitted through this channel in order to improve the processes to
access to information contained in ANSES files.
Overall, performance indicators for Component 1 show the following results:
Indicator                    Baseline value  End-project     Revised End-  Justification
Target value    project        (achieved)
(as defined in  Target value
the PAD)
Reduction of time in applying  140 days     90               74            74
for new social benefits
Reduction of time in the
provision of death benefits
- via service center         170 days       1 day            63 days       66 days
- via phone*                 60 days        1 day
- via web*                                                   5 days        5 days
Average initiation of pension  66           74               20            19
benefits per employee (annual
average divided by sum of
employees affected to Benefit
and Beneficiaries Management
at UDAls)
Number of centers and regional  244         10               0             6**
distribution (measured by
increase in number of offices
per year)
Increased degree of satisfaction  45%       80%                            86.2%
for service delivery
Percentage of pension systems  To be taken at  100%          90%***        90%
totally automated and integrated  the beginning of
the project.
15% (in 2006
when project
started)
Percentage of improvements in:
Beneficiaries Database (ADP)  0%            100%             80%           100%
Single System for Family     0%             100%            90%            100%
Allocations (SUAF)
Single System for           0%              100%             80%
Unemployment (SUDE)
Individual work history      0%             100%             100%          100%
Increased in number of       0%             100%                           100%
employees included in career
plan
20


﻿* The provision of benefits processed by phone was replaced by Web services, which were established in
2006.
** ANSES changed its strategy in 2007 to prioritize institutional presence through technological systems
(kiosks) rather than opening new offices.
*** The target for this indicator was adjusted to reflect the fact that some percentage of modules is
manually processed.
**** This indicator was not measured during project implementation
Activities/Outputs by subcomponent:
Subcomponent 1: Strategic management: This subcomponent included: (i) a diagnostic of the
current strategy and development of a new strategy based on a redefined mission and vision; and
(ii) revision and definition of performance indicators.
-   A strategic and organizational-functional analysis revised the planning and management
oversight processes within ANSES and issued recommendations to improve the presentation
of information regarding the implementation of the annual operational plan.
-   Development of ANSES's strategic plan 2009-2011 and presentation of the plan during a
national workshop held on October 5, 2009.
-   Specialized consultancies to develop a model for impact assessment of social security reform.
-   Individual consultancies for diagnostic and strengthening of ANSES's Strategic Plan of
Systems and Telecommunications.
-   Acquisition of Information Technology (IT) equipment to support ANSES's institutional
strengthening (including PC, notebooks, switches, printers, scanners, etc.)
-   Consolidation of web servers.
-   As part of the activities aimed at the identification of good practices for technological
management, individual consultancies focused on improving the transparency and tracking of
font code, and improving data quality and processing.
Subcomponent 2: Reengineering of core businesses processes: This subcomponent included an
in-depth diagnosis of current operational processes, and a redesign of core processes, such as key
processes for the awarding of pension benefits, in line with international experience and
benchmarking.
-   Adoption of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution (Soluci6n Integral de
Planificaci6n de Recursos Empresariales), including: consultancies for the redesign of core
processes; a consultancy for implementation of ERP; acquisition of equipment for
implementation of ERP; rent of office space.
-   Development of an integral staff training system through the creation and operation of an e-
learning platform.
-   Individual consultancies for diagnosis and strengthening of ANSES's Strategic Plan of
Systems and Telecommunications.
-   Acquisition of IT equipment to support ANSES's institutional strengthening (including PC,
notebooks, switches, printers, scanners, etc.)
-   Consolidation of web servers.
-   As part of the activities aimed at the identification of good practices for technological
management, individual consultancies focused on improving the transparency and tracking of
font code, and improving data quality and processing.
21


﻿Subcomponent 3: Automation of core businesses processes and integration of systems: This
subcomponent financed the automation of processes to support scalability and replicability of
processes and greater integration of systems (particularly, services, financial management, audit
and fraud prevention), through ERP, as well as investments in information and communication
technology to improve service delivery and relations with clients.
-   Individual consultancies for diagnosis and strengthening of ANSES's Strategic Plan of
Systems and Telecommunications.
-  Acquisition of IT equipment to support ANSES's institutional strengthening (including PC,
notebooks, switches, printers, scanners, etc.)
-   Consolidation of web servers.
-  As part of the activities aimed at the identification of good practices for technological
management, individual consultancies focused on improving the transparency and tracking of
font code, and improving data quality and processing.
-  Acquisition of equipment for the digitalization of beneficiaries' files, which were archived in
paper format at ANSES central archive.
-   Creation of complaints and suggestions books for ANSES UDAls.
-  Analysis of complaints submitted through the complaints books and development of new
system for managing complaints in UDAIS and offices.
Subcomponent 4: Improvement of the organizational structure and decentralized service
delivery: This subcomponent included a functional analysis of ANSES, strengthening of the
Department of Services, enhanced capacity for human resources management, and development
of a comprehensive career plan.
-  Adoption of an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution (Soluci6n Integral de
Planificaci6n de Recursos Empresariales), including: consultancies for redesign of core
processes; a consultancy for implementation of ERP; acquisition of equipment for
implementation of ERP; rent of office space.
-  A consultancy for assessing technological migration and acquisition of software and licenses
for an integral management of human resources (peoplenet).
-   Implementation of compulsory online training for career plan for all staff. Pilot training of
trainers. 24 online courses planned for development and delivery.
-   Individual consultancies for diagnosis and strengthening of ANSES's Strategic Plan of
Systems and Telecommunications.
-  Acquisition of IT equipment to support ANSES's institutional strengthening (including PC,
notebooks, switches, printers, scanners, etc.)
-   Consolidation of web servers.
-  As part of the activities aimed at the identification of good practices for technological
management, individual consultancies focused on improving the transparency and tracking of
font code, and improving data quality and processing.
Component 2: Institutional Effectiveness of the Social Security Secretariat
This component promoted the institutional strengthening of the Social Security Secretariat to
enhance its managerial and technical capacity for greater oversight of social security institutions,
particularly ANSES.
22


﻿Although the project defined four subcomponents, activities focused only on Subcomponent 2,
which sought to strengthen the technical capacity of the SSS through the analysis of key social
security policy issues and social security publications, including the development of key
analytical instruments such as integrated systems for actuarial analysis.
The SSS has defined a long-term strategy, adapted its organizational structure and processes, and
is currently monitoring performance indicators satisfactorily. However, while performance
indicators were achieved, most of the project activities planned under this component were not
implemented using project funds due to the problems mentioned before.
The project supported the development of some specialized publications as well as specific
consultancies (for example, an expert actuarial assessment of SIPA). However, the expected
outcomes in terms of improved technical analysis on social security issues, greater access to
information on social security issues and institutions, as well as to strengthening the SSS
technical capacity were not achieved.
The rational for including the SSS in the project was quite strong as the strengthening of the
regulatory body is a key pillar of ANSES accountability framework. However, the timing for the
planned activities was not appropriate, and the project was ultimately not able to overcome the
political and institutional challenges that were beyond its reach, thereby preventing this
component from achieving its objectives.
Overall, performance indicators for Component 2 show the following results:
Indicator                Baseline value     End-project      Revised      Justification
Target value     End-project (achieved)
(as included in  Target
the PAD)         value
Redefined long term      None               100%                          100%
strategy and functions,
streamlined processes, new
organizational structure
and M&E
Number of Monitoring     Monitoring: 0      Monitoring: 20
Reports studies and studies  Studies: 0     Studies: 12
on social policy*
Supervision of all                          At least once
autonomous agencies
(ANSES, Superintendency
fo the Private Pension
System (SAFJP) and
Private Work-Place Risk
Superindendency (SRT))
executed at least once
annually*
Improved disclosure and  0                  75%
dissemination of studies to
regulated agencies,
Ministry of Labor and
Employment, and general
public as measured by
stakeholders survey
satisfaction*
23


﻿* These indicators were no longer measured as the component's activities focused on subcomponent 2.
Activities/Outputs:
-   The component called for the SSS to redefine a long-term strategy and functions, streamline
processes, develop a new organizational structure, and incorporate M&E. The target was
achieved and the SSS has a long-term strategy, efficient organizational structure and
processes, and implements performance indicators. However, the project has not financed
most of the activities that led to these achievements.
-   Publication of 2 books on social security issues (Titles: "Towards an Integrated System of
Social Protection in Argentina" and "Floor or Integrated System of Social Protection? A
View from the Argentine Experience").
-   An actuarial analysis provided the SSS with technical and information instruments in order to
assess the social security system in the long term.
-   Analysis of the process of population aging in Argentina and its impact on the design of
social security systems.
-   Other specialized consultancies aimed at strengthening the SSS's technical capacity.
Component 3: Transparency and Participation
This component complemented the institutional modernization of ANSES by focusing on specific
activities targeted at improving transparency. It linked internal and external transparency
mechanisms, designed to improve access to information by beneficiaries and other stakeholders
as well as increased exchange of information, particularly with other public sector institutions and
programs.
Transparency and participation have been enhanced as demonstrated by the consolidation of the
Claims Management System, which allows beneficiaries to submit claims and incorporates this
information into decision-making processes. Following a diagnostic of existing mechanisms and
practices, internal mechanisms for audit and oversight have been significantly strengthened
through the automation of fraud and error detection mechanisms, substantially increasing ANSES
capacity to reduce quantitative error in the determination of social security benefits. Moreover,
the project also contributed to strengthen procurement processes in order to enhance ANSES's
transparency and accountability.
The project also supported the creation of a Social Security Observatory as a permanent system to
generate information and analyses, and to produce recommendations on the design and
implementation of social security policies. The Observatory signed cooperation agreements with
universities, organized dissemination and knowledge-sharing events, and produced three studies
with project support. The challenge, however, is to enhance the visibility, dissemination, and
publication of the studies and reports.
The project continued to support the strengthening of mechanisms for citizen participation and
oversight. ANSES's Advisory Body (Organo Consultivo), which is constituted by representatives
from all the local organizations of retirees and pensioners, continued to play a key accountability
role. Meetings of the advisory body and its Executive Board, as well as meetings of regional and
local organizations have taken place regularly (a total of 543 meetings of different citizen bodies
had taken place by the end of 2012). Also, 50 training programs for social security collaborators
and personnel and 39 training and social inclusion courses for pensioners were delivered with
project support.
24


﻿Overall, performance indicators for Component 3 show the following results:
Indicator                  Baseline value    End-project     Revised       Justification
Target value     End-project   (achieved)
(as included in  Target value
the PAD)
Reduction of error rates
-   in determination of    74%              27%                            34% (in 2009
benefits (measured by %                                                versus year's
of errors in calculation                                               target of 37%)
and application of norms
over total errors)
(measured through
2009)
Level of quantitative error in  0                            7%            7.67%
pension reports (measured
starting in 2010)
Implementation of citizen  0                 100%            80%           78%
oversight mechanisms
Implementation of claim    To be taken at    100%                          100%
management system and      project beginning.
incorporation into processes  5% (in 2006 when
the project
started)
Number of external         None              2               4             3
evaluations and results
incorporated into the project
implementation
Activities/Outputs by subcomponent:
Subcomponent 1: Fraud and error detection: This subcomponent included an in-depth diagnosis
of current control and audit mechanisms, and the definition of a comprehensive methodology to
detect and calculate fraud, including the design of systems of territorial information and digital
maps.
-   Automation of analytic procedures to minimize risk in processing wrong information and to
improve the detection of incompatibilities through integrated databases.
-   The percentage of error in the determination of social benefits was significantly reduced from
74% in 2005 to 34% in 2009.
-   The level of quantitative error in pension reports was 7.67% by September 2012.
Subcomponent 3: Greater access to information: This subcomponent continued to support
citizen participation and oversight mechanisms while also seeking to improve the single window
access to services in order to facilitate access to information as well as online solutions to access
to services. The subcomponent also financed the design and implementation of feedback
mechanisms and a claim management system. Moreover, it supported information management
and analysis and the development of technical studies on social security.
-   Specialized consultancies for modernizing and optimizing relations with beneficiaries.
25


﻿- Improved alignment of internal and external perception of the management model to facilitate
service delivery.
- Claim management system in place and fully incorporated into internal processes.
- Creation and institutionalization of the Social Security Observatory as a permanent system
for integrating information and data and prepare technical and analytic studies on social
security policies.
- As part of its activities, the Observatory convened the following knowledge sharing events:
-   Seminar on Social Protection Strategies for Vulnerable Groups (September
2012).
-   International seminar on social security guarantee funds (September 2011).
-   International seminar on social protection systems (August 2011).
-   Regional workshop in the province of Mendoza (August 2011).
- Between October 2010 and September 2012, the Social Security Observatory hired 17
individual consultants to conduct analyses and process information. Moreover, it signed
agreements with 3 national universities for conducting social security studies (on poverty,
disability pensions, and the childhood universal entitlement).
- Specialized consultancy for enhancing the efficiency and transparency of procurement
processes.
- Regular meetings of the Advisory Body, Executive Board and meetings with regional and
local organizations of retirees and pensioners, continued to play a key accountability role. A
total of 543 meetings of different citizen bodies had taken place by the end of 2012.
Delivery of training programs and seminars for social security collaborators and personnel,
and refresher seminars on social security throughout the country. A total of 50 deliveries until
September 2012.
- 39 courses delivered as part of the Social Insertion and Training Program for pensioners,
reaching over 369 participants.
- Contribution to the formation of Federations and Centers of Pensioners through the provision
of information and facilitating spaces for meetings.
Component 4: Change Mana2ement
The fourth component was designed to ensure effective project implementation across
components, help mitigate risks and support sustainability of organizational reforms. It supported
the specific internal change management instruments required for improving the institutional
effectiveness of ANSES and a broader project strategy of change management, as well as other
external change mechanisms.
Project implementation was supported through specific activities aimed at strengthening change
management. Results-based monitoring and evaluation were supported through the adoption of
effective internal and external M&E systems. The project financed the adoption of other change
management mechanisms, such as open business intelligence tools, including the implementation
of data cubes that provide a multidimensional array of values generated by ANSES information
systems. These cubes enhance ANSES' capacity for analysis and crosschecking of social security
data.
26


﻿ANSES has successfully implemented a clearly defined internal and external communication
strategy (branding project) aimed at improving public perception regarding the institution. The
strategy has strengthened the dissemination of ANSES' institutional and performance information
through publications and other communication activities, such as weekly radio infomercials,
public opinion campaigns, a TV series, presence in book fairs, etc. Central branding initiatives
included the update of ANSES website, the consolidation of institutional spaces in TV channels,
and a dissemination program for the Sustainability Guarantee Fund. Besides improving public
perception, the communication strategy has contributed to improving change awareness of
ANSES initiatives, with approximately 90% of change awareness measured by the end of 2011.
Periodic surveys to beneficiaries and stakeholders indicate that both employees and stakeholders
show high support of the project activities and increasing openness to change, revealing a cultural
change towards an adaptive organization.
Overall the performance indicators for component 4 show the following results:
Indicator              Baseline value     End-project        Revised       Justification
Target value       End-project   (achieved)
(as included in the  Target value
PAD)
M&E systems            To be taken at     100%                             100% achieved
implemented            project beginning.                                  in 2009 and
20% (in 2006 when                                   replaced
the project started)
Development of data    No baseline defined                    100%         100%
cubes*
Surveys to Employees   To be taken at     90%                80%           By end of 2011,
and other stakeholders  project beginning.                                 78.5%.**
that reflect support of  10% (in 2006 when
project activities and  the project started)
openness to change
Communication strategy  Lack of clearly   Communication       Self-        Communication
defined            strategy defined and  defined:***  strategy in
communication      operational with    100%         place.
strategy           ongoing M&E of     awareness on  Self-defined:
outcomes.          ANSES         90% awareness
initiatives.  on ANSES
initiatives.**
* This indicator replaces the M&E indicator since 2010.
** Final results expected in January 2013 but not yet available.
*** Since the communication strategy was in place, ANSES self-defined new indicators regarding change
awareness.
Activities/Outputs by subcomponent:
Subcomponent 1: Project management: The project supported the strengthening of financial
management, procurement, and auditing, as well as project coordination between ANSES and the
Secretariat.
-   Consultancies for performing administrative tasks and supporting project implementation.
-   Consultancies for improving procurement processes.
-   Consultancies for providing assistance regarding financial management.
27


﻿- The offices for project administration were concentrated in one office to facilitate
coordination.
- Independent audit of GFI program.
- Evaluation of PIU performance.
Subcomponent 2: Monitoring and evaluation: This subcomponent sought to support results-
based monitoring and evaluation in line with international benchmarks.
-   The subcomponent called for the implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system. The
target was achieved by 2009.
-   Development and implementation of 4 data cubes that enhanced ANSES' capacity to analyze
and crosscheck social security data, including social security files, social security benefits,
personal data and data on personal contributions.
Subcomponent 3: Change Management Instruments: This subcomponent sought to support
change management mechanisms, including the development of a methodology for change
management, implementation of a clear communication strategy, the performance of a
stakeholder analysis, dissemination of change processes and results, M&E of change
management, and surveys to measure satisfaction of staff and beneficiaries.
-   Specialized consultancies for modernizing and optimizing relations with beneficiaries.
-   Improved alignment of internal and external perception of the management model to facilitate
service delivery.
-  Annual surveys to staff and stakeholders to assess support to project activities, openness to
change, internal and external perception of the institution and services provided, staff's
satisfaction with theirjob, among other items.
-   87% of ANSES staff declared that they were satisfied with their jobs.
-   Both employees and stakeholders have shown high support to the project activities (78.5% by
end of 2011), reflecting increasing openness to change.
-   Change awareness of ANSES initiatives has significantly improved, with approximately 90%
of change awareness measured by end of 2011.
-  ANSES has successfully implemented      a clearly  defined  Communication  Strategy
implemented through annual Communication Plans.
-  As part of ANSES' Communication Plan for 2012, the institution has developed the
following products, among others: (i) 2 public communication campaigns ("Values" and
"Respect"), including radio and television infomercials, television spots, graphic materials,
etc. A new public campaign on the Sustainability Guarantee Fund is under preparation;
(ii)Development and production of a television series on social security and the role of
ANSES in Argentine society; (iii) Presentations at book and ICT fairs; (iii) Publication of 5
books, including the 2011 Annual Report and the new Strategic Plan 2012-2015,
(iv)Dissemination of information and news on activities of the Executive Director as well as
specific social security issues (such as the annual school benefits) through different media;
and (v)ANSES is also in the process of updating the contents of its website as well as
expanding the institutional presence in television channels.
28


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Not applicable. As an institutional strengthening operation, no quantitative economic and
financial analyses were prepared at appraisal. Rather it was asserted that improvements in the
quality of service-delivery, the redesign and automation of processes, fraud and error detection,
and improvements of internal and external control, auditing, procurement and evaluation would
lead to a series of (un-quantified) efficiency gains.
Specifically, the operation was expected to generate four different types of efficiency gains:
(i) Efficiency gains derived from process reengineering and redesign of the organizational
structure.
(ii) Improvements in quality, targeting and coverage of services by reducing time in granting
benefits, achieving greater client satisfaction, redesigning procedures for other welfare programs.
(iii) Fraud and error detection through the complete automation of procedures based on the
accreditation of beneficiaries, greater integration of existing databases and the enforcement of
uniform guidelines.
(iv) Better internal and external control, auditing, procurement and evaluation that would enable
ANSES to detect fraud and error more effectively and respond people's demands in time and
manner.
Therefore, efficiency and effectiveness in the context of this project were defined as internal
efficiency, time in the provision of services, better targeting and coverage, and reduction in fraud
and error. Notable achievements highlighted by counterparts include the following:
*   Reduction of average time in the provision of new social security benefits, reducing the
average period from 88 days in 2010 to 75 days in 2012.
*   The average time in processing death benefits was reduced from 170 days to 5 days (via
Web) and 62 days (via service center).
*   The average time for the new provision of retirement benefits also decreased from 66
days in 2005 to 19 days in 2012.
*   The percentage of error in the determination of social benefits was significantly reduced
from 74% in 2005 to 34% in 2009.
*   Beneficiaries' satisfaction rates with service delivery have significantly improved from
45% in 2005 to 76% in 2011.
*   ANSES's service delivery at decentralized level has improved, as indicated by an
increase in the number of decentralized offices and regional distribution from 244 in
2005 to 357 in June 2012. Also, decentralized service delivery has improved adoption of
new ICT-based mechanisms for ensuring ANSES institutional presence throughout the
territory.
29


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                           Title                Unit
Specialty
Lending
Sandra X. Alborta           Program Assistant                 SASHD
Margarita Andrade           Consultant                        LCSPE
Marcelo Daniel Barg         E T Consultant                    LCC6C
Antonio Leonardo Blasco     Sr Financial Management Specia    LCSFM
Franka Braun                Carbon Finance Specialist          CPFCF
Yanina Budkin               Senior Communications Officer     LCREA
Jose Edgardo L. Campos      Manager                           WBILG
Daniel Dulitzky             Sector Manager                    ECSH1
Joseph Formoso              Senior Finance Officer            CTRLA
Magali Junowicz             Consultant                         LCSPS
Sudhakhar Kaveeshwar        Manager                            ISGIF
Magali Laraque              Consultant                        AFTN1
Andres Mac Gaul             Senior Procurement Specialist      LCSPT
Carmen Machicado            Operations Officer                 LCSPS
Miguel Mercado-Diaz         Senior Operations Officer         LCSFM
Truman G. Packard           Lead Economist                    EASHS
Chris Parel                 Consultant                         LCSPS
Reynaldo F. Pastor          Chief Counsel                     LEGLE
Kathrin A. Plangemann       Lead Public Sector Specialist     AFTP1
Lead Public Sector Management
Gary Reid ECSPE
Specialist
William Reuben              Senior Social Specialist          LCSEO
Jeffrey James Rinne         Consultant                         LCSPF
Juan Luis Sanguinetti       Consultant                        LCSHH
Annika Silva-Lender         Social Development Specialist       SDV
Consultant, Transparency and
,Gerardo Uia                                                 LCC7C
Litigation
Eduardo Martin Urdapilleta  Sr Financial Economist             LCSPF
Giorgio Valentini           Representative                    LCCJM
Supervision/ICR
Margarita Andrade           Consultant                        LCSPE
Alexandre Arrobbio          Lead Public Sector Specialist      AFTP4
Natalia Cecilia Bavio       Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM
Senior Public Sector Management
Ana Bellver Vazquez-Dodero                                     LCSPS
Specialist
Antonio Leonardo Blasco     Sr Financial Management Specialist  LCSFM
30


﻿Henry Forero Ramirez       Senior Information Officer        TWICT
Ana Maria Grofsmacht       Procurement Specialist            LCSPT
Alejandro Guerrero Ruiz    Public Sector Management Specialist  LCSPS
Aranzazu Guillan-Montero   Consultant                        LCSPS
Adrienne Elizabeth Hathaway  Junior Professional Associate   LCSPS
Magali Junowicz            Consultant                        LCSPS
Mariano Lafiente          Public Sector Management Specialist  LCSPS
Ricardo Eduardo Lugea      Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Andres Mac Gaul            Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT
Miguel Mercado-Diaz        Senior Operations Officer         LCSFM
LCSHS-
Juan Martin Moreno         Social Protection Economist
DPT
Kathrin A. Plangemann      Lead Public Sector Specialist     AFTP1
Carolina Rendon            Public Sector Specialist          LCSPS
Ernesto Rodriguez          Consultant                        LCSPS
Rafael P. Rofman           Lead Social Protection Specialist  LCSHS
Giorgio Valentini          Representative                    LCCJM
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
No. of staff weeks
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY05                                      25.2                      191.19
FY06                                       4.01                       6.94
Total:            29.21                     198.13
Supervision/ICR
FY05                                       0.00                       0.00
FY06                                       6.58                      35.09
FY07                                      16.56                      73.17
FY08                                      12.07                     100.59
FY09                                       21.27                     142.32
FY10                                       22.26                     121.34
FY11                                       33.79                     121.64
FY12                                       17.35                      79.21
FY13                                        6.46                      18.98
Total:           136.34                     692.35
31


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
A national survey of ANSES employees was carried out in December 2011. 5,276 individuals
completed the online questionnaire, which was designed to measure employees' knowledge and
interpretation of ANSES's most important attributes, internal cultural values, and the agency's
abilities and objectives. Respondents primarily worked in ANSES's operational network (75.6
percent), and about half had been with the agency for five or fewer years.
The survey reported on a number of different topics (interpersonal relations, leadership quality,
interaction/integration, motivation, feeling of relevance, service culture, training, internal
communication, public campaigns, work processes, strategy, resources, and general evaluation).
The results of those most related to the institutional strengthening activities undertaken under this
project are discussed below. While survey results point to definite improvements in employees'
perceptions, it is important to note that it is difficult to directly attribute such changes to
implementation of the activities undertaken in this Project.
Overall, employees' general perceptions of ANSES improved in 2011. Ninety-three percent of
respondents felt that the image of ANSES had improved over the last year. Between 20108 and
2011, the percentage of respondents viewing ANSES as a model organization of national public
administration increased substantially (from 63.7 percent to 85.9 percent). Slightly greater
fractions of employees viewed their opinions to have an impact on management decisions in 2011
than in 20109 and the percentage of employees feeling that their superiors had clearly
communicated to them their job functions and responsibilities increased by more than 10
percentage points to 74.3 percent in 2011.
In 2011, approximately 87 percent of respondents were satisfied with their work. Perceptions of
personal benefits from this work increased in 2011, with about 62 percent of employees feeling
that their position was well-paid (43 percent in 2010) and 52 percent feeling that they received
recognition beyond remuneration for their work (44 percent in 2010). Almost all respondents felt
that they were a part of ANSES (91.8 percent) and were proud to work for the organization (95
percent). Slightly more than one-third (34.9%) of respondents felt that ANSES offered a training
program for all levels and sectors, up slightly from the 2010 survey (31.1 percent), but a greater
percentage (42.5 percent) felt that they personally had the possibility of accessing adequate
training for their positions. Approximately 64 percent felt that technological tools were sufficient
for their operational needs (46.9 percent in 2010), and about half (52 percent) believed that
technological problems were solved in a timely and adequate fashion (38.7 percent in 2010).
Almost all (95.4 percent) reported carrying out their work according to established norms in 2011
(94.7 in 2010).
While survey responses to questions related to inter-area communication point to slight
improvements between 2010 and 2011, the fact that the percentages of those agreeing ranged
between approximately 47 and 61 percent suggest that there is still room for further progress. The
fraction of respondents declaring that they were appropriately informed about developments
affecting ANSES rose considerably between 2010 and 2011 (from 56 percent to 65.9 percent),
and almost 76 percent of respondents reported that internal communication media were sufficient
(63.5 percent in 2010). While only 75 percent said that they know the mission, vision, and
8 The 2010 survey was carried out in May.
65.5 percent agreed that their superiors involve them in decisions impacting their daily work in 2011, in comparison
to 63.6 percent in 2010. In 2011, 70.6 percent felt that their suggestions and proposals were taken into account by their
superiors (63.6 percent in 2010).
32


﻿institutional values of ANSES (22 percent noted partial familiarity), most (87.5 percent) agreed
that ANSES's publicity campaigns communicated the organization's benefits and values.
In regards to service delivery, between the 2010 and 2011 surveys, there were significant
increases in the percentages of respondents who felt that ANSES had succeeded in reducing
waiting and service times (from 66.8 percent in 2010 to 83.4 percent in 2011) and that thought
that the public attention framework was adequate for citizen demands (46.6 percent in 2010, 66.6
percent in 2011). In 2011, approximately 79 percent of respondents felt that ANSES personnel
were concerned with providing quality services and satisfying beneficiaries' needs.
Looking towards the future, the three most reported challenges for ANSES in the next year were
administering the Sustainability Guarantee Fund (FGS) with transparency, implementing
improvements in human resources policies, and maintaining service quality following the
increased audience post-Universal Child Allowance (AUH).
33


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results(if any)
N/A
34


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Borrower's ICR
CONVENIO PRÉSTAMO BANCO MUNDIAL
FORTALECIMIENTO INSTITUCIONAL (ANSES II)
ICR DEL PRESTATARIO
1. Fechas clave
La Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social - ANSES - es un organismo descentralizado
al cual se integraron una serie de entidades que hasta el momento de su creación en 1991,
operaban en forma independiente. Es una de las mayores instituciones del sector público en la
Argentina, tanto en términos de gestión del gasto social como de cobertura de la población, y
representa un objetivo central de modernización del Estado. Actualmente, ANSES tiene a su
cargo la gestión de programas sociales para aproximadamente 8 millones de ciudadanos, a través
de jubilaciones y pensiones, programas de asignaciones familiares, fondos de desempleo e
incapacidad y otros programas de protección social para personas vulnerables.
La Resolución MTSS N° 969 del 27 del noviembre de 1996 crea el Programa de Asistencia
Técnica para ANSES, con el apoyo del Banco Mundial y el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo.
A través de este programa, denominado ANSES 1, la Administración Nacional de la Seguridad
Social emprendió significativas reformas institucionales que aumentaron su capacidad de gestión.
Dicho convenio fue prorrogado hasta el año 2005, mereciendo la calificación de Satisfactorio
Plus (S+) por parte de las misiones de supervisión del Banco.
Sobre dichos antecedentes y teniendo en cuenta los pilares de la Estrategia de Asistencia al País
del BIRF, es que surge el Programa ANSES II de Fortalecimiento Institucional, que busca apoyar
la agenda de reformas del Gobierno para alcanzar el crecimiento económico sostenido, mejorando
el desarrollo humano y la gobernabilidad.
Así, por Resolución Ministerial N° 355/05 se crea el Programa de Asistencia Técnica
aprobándose el Proyecto de Fortalecimiento Institucional ANSES II. En el marco del
Decreto N° 825/2006 se aprueba el Modelo de Convenio de Préstamo y se constituye la
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto- UCP-, con el fin de ejecutar el Proyecto y contribuir
al fortalecimiento institucional a través de la aplicación de modernos principios de
gerenciamiento. El 14 de julio de 2006 se firma el Convenio de Préstamo mientras que el
16 noviembre de 2006, mediante nota del Director Subregional para Argentina, Chile
Paraguay y Uruguay, señor Axel Van Trotsenburg, se declara la efectividad del Préstamo
N° 7318-AR.
El 19 de enero de 2011 el Banco Mundial, mediante nota de la Directora para Argentina,
Paraguay y Uruguay, la señora Penélope Brook, ha informado la Prórroga de la Fecha de Cierre
del Convenio de Fortalecimiento Institucional (Préstamo BIRF N° 7318-AR), estableciendo la
misma el día 30 de septiembre de 2012 como la fecha propuesta en la Sección 2.03 del Convenio
35


﻿de Préstamo. Asimismo, con fecha 11 de septiembre de 2012 el Banco Mundial otorgó un período
de gracia de cuatro meses a partir de la citada Fecha de Cierre.
 2. Pagos por componente.
Dados los objetivos del proyecto, se establecieron cuatro componentes a través de los cuales se
agrupan los distintos proyectos:
1. Eficacia Institucional de ANSES:
Apunta a lograr un aumento de la eficiencia y eficacia de ANSES, mediante el diseño de
una nueva estrategia, reingeniería y automatización de los procesos de funciones básicas, el
rediseño de la estructura organizativa y los mecanismos habilitadores necesarios, en apoyo
del cambio en la cultura de la gestión.
2. Eficacia Institucional de la Secretaría de Seguridad Social
Promueve la plena capacidad técnica y de gestión de la Secretaría para una mayor
supervisión de las instituciones de seguridad social, contribuyendo a fortalecer el análisis
técnico y el debate público sobre cuestiones clave de seguridad social para fortalecer la
eficacia y eficiencia del sistema y el funcionamiento de sus instituciones.
3. Transparencia y Participación
Tiende a mejorar la transparencia de ANSES, aumentando el acceso e intercambio de
información, especialmente mediante la detección de fraude y errores, control de litigios,
verificaciones múltiples de los datos de los beneficiarios con otras instituciones y
mecanismos de gestión social para beneficiarios y otras partes interesadas.
4. Gestión del Cambio
Diseñado para garantizar la ejecución efectiva del Proyecto en lo que respecta a todos los
componentes; contribuir a moderar los riesgos y apoyar la sustentabilidad de las reformas
organizativas anteriores y las propuestas.
En el cuadro de más abajo se muestran los correspondientes pagos efectuados y el presupuesto
total (BIRF-ANSES). Los datos de dicho presupuesto, consideran la reestructuración de
categorías de gasto aprobada por el BIRF en fecha 27/09/2012.
Componente                                       Pagado (      Presupuestado
*) (*)
1. Eficacia institucional de ANSES                      21.54          31.25
2. Eficacia institucional de la Secretaría               0.20           3.00
de Seguridad Social
3. Transparencia y participación                         0.94           1.22
4. Gestión del cambio                                    1.76           1.97
Fondos sin asignar                                       0.00           0.00
Comisión inicial                                         0.06           0.06
Total del proyecto                       24.49           37.50
36


﻿(*) En millones de u$s.
3. Logros por componente
Del cuadro anterior surge que la asignación presupuestaria estuvo altamente concentrada al
componente uno, "Eficacia institucional de ANSES". En él destacan los subcomponentes
"Automatización de los procesos institucionales básicos" que se lleva el 54% del total del
componente y "Mejoramiento de la estructura institucional y los servicios", que alcanzó el
26%. Si la distinción se hace respecto de la categoría de inversión, se observa que la
adquisición de Bienes representa el 55% del total acumulado (pagado más comprometido),
mientras que en segundo término se tiene la categoría Servicio de consultoría, con un 41% del
citado total.
Queremos destacar algunas de las iniciativas que particularmente significaron un aporte
sustantivo a la gestión del organismo.
1. La implementación del software Meta4 para la gestión de la gerencia de Recursos
Humanos.
2. El desarrollo y operatividad del software Solución Integral de Recursos Empresariales
(ERP).
3. La adquisición de equipamiento informático para el fortalecimiento institucional de
ANSES.
4. La consultoría referida al diseño del plan estratégico a cargo de la gerencia de
Planeamiento.
5. El apoyo en la creación y desarrollo de actividades (seminarios y estudios de la seguridad
social) del Observatorio de la Seguridad Social.
6. El fortalecimiento en la capacidad técnica de la Secretaría de la Seguridad Social.
7. El desarrollo de una plataforma de servicios de e-leaming.
8. Diseño de aplicativo y procedimientos para la atención de reclamos de beneficiarios.
A continuación se presenta un detalle de los principales Proyectos que dieron cuerpo a la
inversión realizada por el convenio del préstamo.
RECURSOS HUMANOS
84-CD-B-3 (Previsto u$s 1.046.650)
Adquisición de software Peopelnet y 10.500 licencias en fase de alta para la actualización
tecnológica del software vigente en la gerencia de Recursos Humanos
Octubre de 2008
Ejecutado: u$s 1.046.650
85-SSF-CF-15 (Previsto u$s 647.350)
Consultoría para la migración tecnológica y funcional del software vigente en la Gerencia de
Recursos Humanos
META4 AUSTRAL S.A.
Octubre de 2008 a junio de 2010
Ejecutado: u$s 647.350
134-SBCC-CF-23
37


﻿Plataforma de Servicios E-learning (Universidad de Tres de Febrero)
Monto del contrato u$s 419.900
Octubre 2011 a diciembre de 2012
Ejecutado: u$s 268.736
59-3CV-CI-40 y 154-3CV-CI-140 (Previsto u$s 141.000)
Plataforma de Servicios E-learning
5 consultores contratados desde marzo de 2009 a septiembre 2012.
ERP
60-3CV-CI-40 (Previsto u$s 566.000)
Solución Integral de Recursos Empresariales (PRE)
8 consultores contratados desde enero de 2009 a septiembre de 2012
89-SBCC-CF-29 (Previsto u$s 5.173.000)
Solución integral de recursos empresariales (llave en mano)
Contrato firmado en octubre de 2009, ejecución hasta noviembre de 2012
Monto del contrato actualizado u$s 7.027.512,12
Ejecutado: u$s 5.610.899,09
117-PLI-B-15 (Previsto u$s 3.125.000)
Solución integral planificación de recursos empresariales (ERP) Hardware de comunicación y
cableado estructurado
Lote 1: Dell América Latina Corp.
Contrato suscripto el 24/1/11: u$s 1.405.268,37
SISTEMAS
49-LPI-B-2 (Previsto u$s 3.865.316)
BM1 - Consolidación de servidores - PC - Notebooks - Servidores - Impresoras - Scanners -
Switches - Compra Equipamiento Informático.
Hewllet Packard Argentina SRL: Lotes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 14, 15, 17
Dell América Latina Corp. Lotes 2, 10, 11, 12, 13, 18
Exo SA Lote 8
Digital Copiers Lote 16
11 6-LPI-B-8 (Previsto u$s 4.620.000)
Equipamiento informático para el fortalecimiento institucional de ANSES.
Contrato firmado el 15 de diciembre de 2010
Monto del contrato: u$s 4.140.993,36
74-3CV-CI-50 Previsto (u$s 139.000)
Fortalecimiento de Sistemas y Telecomunicaciones
6 consultores desde febrero 2010 a diciembre 2011
122-3CV-CI-5 (Previsto u$s 95.000)
38


﻿Transparencia y trazabilidad del código fuente de las aplicaciones (Programa Prissa)
2 consultores de marzo a junio de 2011
Ejecutado: u$s 16.135,95
65-3CV-CI-46 (Previsto u$s 205.000)
Mejoramiento de datos y su procesamiento
8 consultores contratados desde agosto de 2007 a diciembre de 2009
Ejecutado: u$s
OBSERVATORIO DE LA SEGURIDAD SOCIAL
104-CP-S-3 (Previsto u$s 50.000)
Observatorio de la Seguridad social - Alquiler de oficinas
Alquiler del segundo piso de Suipacha 782
Octubre 2010 - Septiembre 2012
161-CV-CI-10 (Previsto u$s 111.000)
Observatorio de la seguridad social
17 consultores contratados desde octubre de 2010 hasta junio 2012
136-CP-S-9 (Previsto u$s 87.000)
Observatorio de la seguridad social: Seminario Estrategias de Protección Social para Grupos
Vulnerables
Realizado los días 6 y 7 de diciembre en el Hotel Sheraton de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires.
Ejecutado: u$s 108.670
Seminarios 2011
160-CP-S-30 (Previsto u$s 5.000)
Servicio de entrega de invitaciones para los seminarios internacionales 2011
Ejecutado u$s 4.024
152-CP-S-23 (Previsto u$s 55.000)
Seminario internacional sobre Sistemas de Protección Social: "Protección Social. Inclusión y
Equidad"
Realizado los días 30 y 31 de agosto de 2011 en el Hotel Panamericano
Ejecutado: u$s 48.454
157-CP-S-28 (Previsto u$s 55.000)
Seminario internacional fondos de garantía de seguridad social: "Fondos públicos de pensiones en
perspectiva. Nuevos desafios"
Realizado los días 15 y 16 de septiembre de 2011 en el Hotel Intercontinental
Ejecutado: u$s 62.843
157-CP-B-26 (Previsto u$s 30.000)
Adquisición de materiales para los asistentes de los talleres y seminario del observatorio de la
seguridad social: carpetas, rollers, pendrives
Contrato firmado enjulio de 2011 con la empresa Estilo Imagen S.A
Monto del contrato: 29.060,72
39


﻿158-CP-B-27 (Previsto u$s 30.000)
Materiales de imprenta para los talleres y seminarios del Observatorio de la seguridad social:
banners, afiches, blocs de hojas, certificados, programas, etc
Contrato firmado en julio de 2011 con la empresa Aller Atucha SRL
Monto del contrato: u$s 13.594,94
148-CP-S-10 (Previsto u$s 25.000)
Taller regional del Observatorio de la seguridad social en la provincia de Mendoza
Taller realizado en la ciudad de Mendoza el 15 de Agosto de 2011: "La Asignación Universal por
Hijo: el impacto de una política inclusiva".
Ejecutado: u$s 2.430
Estudios de la Seguridad Social
137-SCC-CF-22 (Previsto u$s 50.000)
Asignación Universal por Hijo
Consultoría 4 meses julio - octubre 2011
Facultad de Ciencias Políticas de la Universidad Nacional de Cuyo.
LA ASIGNACIÓN UNIVERSAL POR HIJO: Su impacto en las trayectorias de vida y su lugar
en la lucha ideológica en la Argentina actual
Ejecutado: u$s 41.520
140-SCC-CF-24 (Previsto u$s 33.000)
Retiro por invalidez
Consultoría 5 meses noviembre 2011 - marzo 2012
"Retiros por invalidez: Investigación acerca de las principales causales de la invalidez previsional
en el SIPA, revisión del Baremo y de los fallos judiciales sobre exámenes médicos"
Universidad Nacional de Tres de Febrero
Ejecutado: u$s 37.135
142-SCC-CF-26 (Previsto u$s 48.000)
Pobreza e indigencia
Consultoría 6 meses julio - diciembre 2011
Universidad Nacional de Moreno
Evolución de los indicadores de pobreza e indigencia. Políticas Sociales.
Ejecutado: u$s 41.685
SECRETARIA DE LA SEGURIDAD SOCIAL
161-CP-S-31 (Previsto u$s 12.500)
Publicación: "Hacia un Sistema Integrado de Protección Social en Argentina"
Publicación de 1000 ejemplares del libro producto del trabajo de algunos de los consultores
individuales.
78-3CV-CI-51 (Previsto u$s 151.500)
Fortalecimiento de la capacidad técnica de la secretaría de seguridad social
8 consultores contratados desde junio de 2009 a septiembre 2012.
40


﻿PLANEAMIENTO
66-3CV-CI-1 (Previsto u$s 20.000)
Análisis de la estrategia y análisis organizacional - funcional de Anses
1 consultor desde octubre de 2008 a agosto de 2009
Ejecutado: u$s 20.654,10
81-3CV-CI-53 (Previsto u$s 19.000)
Actualización del Plan Estratégico de Anses
2 consultores contratados de noviembre de 2008 a marzo de 2009
Ejecutado: u$s 13.061,22
62-3CV-CI-43 (u$s 190.000)
Modelo de Dimensionamiento de Impacto de las Reformas de la Seguridad Social.
2 consultores contratados
Ejecutado: u$s 10.821
ADMINISTRACIÓN
95-LPN-B-1 (Estimado u$s 5.100.000)
Digitalización Archivo Central Etapa II - Equipamiento Informático
Lote 1: Adea Administradora de Archivos SA u$s 337.613,41
Lote 2: Aktio SA u$s 793.681,93
Lote 3: Baseside SA u$s 752.985
57-3CV-CI-30 (Estimado u$s 459.000)
Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto
20 consultores contratados desde julio de 2007 a septiembre de 2012-11-19
53-CP-B-12 (Estimado u$s 20.000)
UCP - Adquisición de Lectoras e impresoras de código de barras
Contrato firmado en octubre de 2008 con Dinatech u$s 28.977,41
Ejecutado: u$s 28.977,41
70-SCC-CF-16 (Estimado u$s 20.000)
Auditoría Independiente del Programa - GFI
Deloitte & Co. SRL.
Agosto a noviembre de 2008
Ejecutado: u$s 18.095,24
145-SCC-CF-20 (Estimado u$s 90.000)
Consultoría para la Mejora de los Procesos de Adquisiciones de ANSES
BDO Becher y Asociados.
Contrato firmado en septiembre de 2011 u$s 98.807,11
41


﻿PRESTACIONES
156-3CV-CI-160 y 135-3CV-CI-60 (Estimado u$s 160.000)
Relevamiento y Análisis de los Reclamos Ingresados en los Libros de Quejas y Sugerencias de
las Distintas Unidades de ANSES Puesta en marcha de un nuevo sistema de atención de reclamos
en UDAI/UDAT y oficinas.
13 consultores contratados desde octubre de 2010 a septiembre de 2012
COMUNICACIONES
67-3CV-CI-48 y 127-3CV-CI-481 (Estimado u$s 124.000)
Modernización y Optimización de la Relación con el beneficiario
3 consultores contratados de diciembre de 2008 a diciembre de 2011
47-SBCC-CF-25 (Estimado u$s 478.500)
Modernización y Optimización de la Relación con el Beneficiario
Deloitte & Co. SRL - Nueva Imagen Comunicación SA
Octubre de 2009 a noviembre de 2011
Ejecutado: u$s 458.890,75
  4. Análisis del Marco de Resultados:
El "Grado de satisfacción por la prestación del servicio (medido por el % de beneficiarios que
califican como "satisfactorios" los servicios de la ANSES)" presenta una mejora sustantiva que
eleva circunstancia desde el 62% en 2006 a 86% en 2012.
La "Reducción del tiempo en la solicitud de nuevos beneficios", también presenta una mejora
relevante respecto del previsto para el año 2006, estabilizando su indicador de tiempo
tramitación de los nuevos beneficios para 2012 en 74 días.
También se observó la reducción de las tasas de error en la determinación de beneficios (medida
por el % de errores en el cálculo y la aplicación de las normas sobre el total de errores), guarismo
que inició en 2006 con un 76% versus un 34% en 2009, año en que el indicador dejó de
calcularse.
En cuanto al "Aumento del grado de satisfacción por la prestación de servicios, medido por las
evaluaciones del desempeño y las encuestas de usuarios y otras partes interesadas", se observa un
incremento que eleva el resultado desde un 45% al inicio del programa al 86% para el año 2012.
Dicha información constituye una herramienta de trabajo valiosa para evaluar y mejorar las
formas de comunicación con el público externo, haciendo efectivo el principio democrático de
acceso a la información y un mejor ejercicio de los derechos ciudadanos. El guarismo muestra un
elevado conocimiento de la ciudadanía sobre la gestión de ANSES valorando su imagen y la
atención que brinda.
42


﻿Debe destacarse que durante la ejecución del préstamo se logró la incorporación del 100% del
personal dentro del Plan de Carrera, utilizando para ello procesos de inducción y capacitación
para la totalidad de los trabajadores del organismo. Dicho resultado permite mayor cohesión,
sentido de pertenencia y ganancias en una administración más eficiente de los recursos humanos.
Asimismo, la Dirección de Órgano Consultivo, de acuerdo a la planificación presentada en los
últimos años, ejecutando reuniones con distintos cuerpos de referentes, instituciones, federación y
centros de jubilados y Pensionados; desarrollando programas de capacitación, seminarios de
Colaboradores Comunitarios Previsionales, Regionales y Provinciales y Jornadas de
Actualización Previsional
La Dirección de Comunicaciones ha impulsado el desarrollo de una estrategia de comunicación,
incorporando nuevas prioridades comunicacionales de coyuntura, la realización de Informes
radiales, y diversas herramienta novedosas de comunicación que permiten comunicar temas
complejos que hacen a la agenda de noticias de ANSES.
Por último, estos indicadores en su conjunto muestran que la ANSES ha incrementado su
eficiencia y eficacia operativa, significando ello ganancias en cuanto a la accesibilidad y la
calidad de la prestación de servicios y en mayores ahorros de recursos, tiempos de procesamiento
y de operación.
   5. Logros de los Objetivos de Desarrollo del Proyecto
Debe recordarse que el PAD del préstamo establecía como objetivos "incrementar la prestación
de servicios por la ANSES mejorando su eficiencia, eficacia, transparencia y rendición de
cuentas mediante una reingeniería institucional, la detección de fraudes y errores, un cambio
en la gestión y una mayor auditoria interna y externa, como así también mediante el
fortalecimiento institucional de la Secretaría de Seguridad Pública".
En este sentido, tanto los proyectos ejecutados, como la evolución positiva que han presentado
los distintos indicadores en el periodo de vigencia del préstamo, muestran el logro cabal del
objetivo antes señalado, destacando que el diseño oportuno de los distintos componentes
facilitaron la tarea relevada en oportunidad de la preparación del convenio del préstamo.
   6. Evaluación de los riesgos
En el análisis general, no se observaron situaciones que plantearan contramarchas al logro de
los objetivos del proyecto, derivadas de las propias rigideces operativas y de procedimientos,
presentes en la puesta en marcha y desarrollo de los subproyectos impulsados por el convenio
de marras.
Es oportuno mencionar que durante la vigencia del préstamo, el gobierno argentino impulso
profundas reformas a su sistema previsional, que en su núcleo más sustantivo ampliaron la
cobertura previsional, determinaron nuevas prestaciones y cambiaron las características del
sistema. La incorporación de más de dos millones de personas al marco protector a través de
un esquema denominado de "moratoria" previsional; el impulso de la llamada Asignación
Universal por Hijo, la implementación del programa "Conectar Igualdad", la eliminación del
43


﻿sistema de capitalización individual de aportes previsionales y la determinación de un sistema
público de jubilaciones y pensiones (SIPA), significaron profundos desafios para la argentina
en su conjunto y particularmente para ANSES, que ha sido y es el ente gestor de este cúmulo
de reformas e instrumentos de inclusión social. Sin lugar a dudas ello tensionó el trazado
inicial de metas y objetivos del préstamo, que reconoció pedidos de prórroga oportunamente
aprobados por Banco Mundial.
Más adelante se identifican los riegos asumidos en el "Documento de evaluación inicial del
proyecto" y se hace un comentario respecto de cada uno de ellos.
1. Oposición al cambio: la rigidez institucional y el patronazgo podrían fortalecer el
clientelismo y un comportamiento adverso en oposición al cambio.
Los diferentes proyectos significaron la adopción de nuevos instrumentos de gestión, ya
sea a nivel de actualización tecnológica en términos de hardware y adopción de nuevo
software, el apoyo a las reformas edilicias de los lugares de atención al público de
ANSES, los cambios en su señalética e imagen institucional; como así también a nivel de
impulso de proyectos con fuerte especificidad. En este último caso se trata de
instrumentos tales como el mencionado soporte al plan estratégico, o el apoyo a la
creación del Observatorio de la Seguridad Social. En todos los casos no se observan
cristalizaciones de procesos de oposición al cambio que hayan afectado la concreción de
los diferentes proyectos.
2. Sostenibilidad: un enfoque sobre la ANSES solamente podría dar por resultado una
"pequeña reforma aislada ", donde el impacto podría ser demasiado limitado como para
tener un impacto duradero sobre la gestión del sector público o podría ser revertido por
cambios en la conducción.
Se entiende que la mayoría de los subproyectos desarrollados tendrán una permanencia
duradera en el tiempo. Los proyectos con menor alcance temporal representan una parte
minoritaria de los recursos afectados; aunque sin embargo su menor tamaño relativo no
resulta condición para su reversión en el tiempo.
3. Rendición de cuentas limitada: la despareja relación entre la ANSES y la Secretaría de
Seguridad Social que limita la formulación de políticas y la función de supervisión de la
Secretaría, y que limita la rendición de cuentas de la ANSES a su cuerpo de supervisión,
podría debilitar la ejecución del proyecto.
No se observaron limitaciones de dicho tipo, así como tampoco debilidades asociadas en
la ejecución del proyecto.
4. Coordinación institucional: la voluntad limitada para intercambiar datos de los
beneficiarios para verificaciones múltiples podría reducir la detección de fraude y
errores y limitar el posible ahorro resultante del proyecto.
Las cuestiones referidas a la coordinación institucional sobretodo pensando en la
instrumentación de las nuevas prestaciones exigió de un alto intercambio de información
y de diseño de procedimientos inter-institucionales. Ejemplo de ello ha sido la
implementación exitosa de las prestaciones asociadas a la Asignación Universal por Hijo
44


﻿y los beneficios del programa Conectar Igualdad, hizo necesaria la participación y acceso
a la información de diferentes instituciones y jurisdicciones tales como ministerios de
educación provinciales y nacional; escuelas, centros de salud y otros.
5. Los recursos del proyecto podrían destinarse a propósitos incompatibles con el objetivo
del proyecto lo que podría provocar una malversación de los fondos.
No se constató la existencia de dicho evento.
7. Calificación del desempeño del Prestatario y del BM
Prestatario:
El organismo entendió el convenio de préstamo como un instrumento central para el
fortalecimiento institucional y la mejora en su gestión. Por tal motivo la Unidad Coordinadora del
Proyecto (UCP) reconocida dentro del organigrama institucional de ANSES como un Area
dependiente de la Secretaría General, situación que facilitó el desarrollo, ejecución y seguimiento
de los distintos subproyectos.
En todo momento las distintas direcciones que resultaron beneficiadas con la adquisición de
bienes y/o servicios derivados del convenio del préstamo tuvieron el compromiso y la
cooperación con dicha UCP, en lo referido a la elaboración de TDR de los distintos proyectos,
preparación pliegos licitatorios, elaboración de informes de avance, y toda información que fuera
requerida para el seguimiento y determinación de los resultados de cada subproyecto.
La comprobación de lo señalado más arriba, respecto del desenvolvimiento interno de cada Área
ejecutora, es posible visualizarla en tanto que muchos subproyectos han repercutido
sustancialmente en la forma de trabajo de cada uno de aquellos sectores. Sin el compromiso y el
convencimiento de los mandos medios y de los distintos responsables de ejecutar los
procedimientos involucrados con los nuevos métodos y formas de trabajo, no hubiera sido posible
llevar a la práctica proyectos como: ERP, e-learning, atención de reclamos, liquidación META4
y otros.
De lo indicado anteriormente surge que la Dirección Ejecutiva, quien ejerció las funciones de
Dirección Nacional del Proyecto, dio prioridad central al cumplimiento de los objetivos que
redundaron en las sinergias necesarias para el logro del fortalecimiento institucional perseguido.
Banco Mundial:
Se hace notar que el trabajo conjunto durante el periodo de vigencia del préstamo ha
permitido alcanzar los desafíos y objetivos inicialmente pautados.
En dicho marco deben identificarse algunas fortalezas en la gestión del Banco Mundial, tales
como:
45


﻿1. El Banco Mundial ha facilitado en todo momento la asistencia técnica para la elaboración
de los TDR, los pliegos de contratación y los procedimientos para la adquisición de
bienes y servicios.
2. Asimismo, el BM ha entendido y comprendido las razones oportunamente manifestadas
en la solicitud de prórroga para la ejecución del préstamo.
3. También corresponde señalar la comprensión y autorización en los pedidos de
reestructuración de los montos asignados a las categorías de inversión del presupuesto de
gastos del préstamo, determinados inicialmente.
4. En las misiones de supervisión y control se han sugerido valiosas y oportunas
recomendaciones para el logro de los objetivos con eficacia y eficiencia.
46


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A
47


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
Country Assistance Strategy for the Argentine Republic. Report No. 27340-AR. Discussed by the
Board on April 15, 2004.
Country Partnership Strategy for the Argentine Republic for the Period 2010-2012. Report No.
48476-AR. Discussed by the Board on June 9, 2009.
Country Partnership Strategy Progress Report for the Argentine Republic for the Period 2010-
2012. February 24, 2011. Report No. 59222-AR. Discussed by the Board on April 4, 2011.
Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security Administration (ANSES II) Technical
Assistance Loan. Implementation Status Reports, 2006-2012.
Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security Administration (ANSES II) Project.
Loan Agreement. July 14, 2006. Loan No. 7318-AR
Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security Administration (ANSES II) Technical
Assistance Loan. Project Appraisal Document. June 8, 2005. Report No. 31970-AR
Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio. AR Institutional Strengthening - ANSES II TA. 2010.
Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Institutional Strengthening of the
National Social Security Administration (ANSES) Project Loan 7318-AR. December 9, 2010.
Report No. 59068-AR.
Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Institutional Strengthening - ANSES
II TA Project Loan. September 27, 2012. Report No. 72967 vl
48


﻿Annex 10. Relevant IBRD and IDB Projects
IBRD
Provincial Pension Reform Project (US$300M, P044445)
State Modernization Project (US$30.3M, P057449)
Social and Fiscal National Identification System ($1OM, P055461)
Structural Adjustment Loan Project (US$400M, P073591)
Public Investment Strengthening Technical Assistance Project (US$16M, P037049)
Provincial Development Project (02) (US$225M, P006018)
Municipal Development Project (02) (US$210M, P006060)
"Jefes de Hogar" (Heads of Household) Program (US$600M, P073578)
Fourth Social Protection Project (US$90.8M, P006058)
IDB
"Argentina Avanza": Social Sector Program 1606/OC-AR (US$500M)
Strengthening Production Related Provincial Institutions and Fiscal Management, Program
1588/OC-AR (US$18M)
Social Protection and Mitigation of the Impact of the Crisis on the Poor II, Program 1517/OC-
AR (US$400M)
Program to Support the Fiscal Balance and Social Management, Program 1295/OC-AR
(US$400M)
49


﻿
﻿IBRD 33362R
70° *W     BOLIVI     T. iio                  60°w                                           50°w
TO                                     PARAG
calaoo           San Salvador De Jujuy
°°   > ca TMA            SANTlGO        Resistencia  -,  Posadas -   t    B R A   7 I L
DEL ETERO
at marca                      CORRIENTES       TO
a R a                                ~   Santa Rosa
LoSerena            LA                   A,   T A
F Santa Moria
30°S                           RO
SAN ordoba 7T.
(JUAN   .SanJuani                    n       å n9*            \                                        30°
.  erroC-ROA7
PACIFIC           ('°"C°                                   E
]  Mendoza                            RI(tS
OCEAN          °aa  .              S                 Rosario          A:UR    GUAY
OCEAN  0Montevidfeo
ýMEND    ZA   SAN
LUIS BUE NOS A|RES
.LIa plata
0   0 200 3     400 500 Kilometers
Sant. Rosa  A I RÆE
0     100    200    300 Miles
)PA M Al pý                                         ar del Plata
9    NEUQUEN
Bakia Blanca
Neuqu'n
RIO NEGRO
TO°,
ARGENTINA
H U B U E A         T L A N T I CCA                               G E  N A
OCEAN
EIER
SANTA-
CRUZ
ü ARGENTINA
50°S                                                                              '50°s5            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
Rio Gallegos ePROVINCE CAPITALS
OStanley ®NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
TIERRA                                                            MAIN ROADS
DEL FUEGO    This mw prodced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank  RAILROADS
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other informtion
sown on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
Group, cny judgment on the legal status ofany territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundries  - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
80°W                       70°W                       60°W                        50°W
AUGUST 2008


