Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7318-AR 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Institutional Strengthening of the National Social Security Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 14, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7318-AR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2006, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows:  
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes (excluding the export tax and the financial transaction 
tax) levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Loan, or on their importation (with the exception of import tariffs above 28%), 
manufacture, procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s 
policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that 
end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage 
Page  3
-
2
-
for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank. 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Agency Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.08 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual Action Plan” means any of the annul plans referred to in Section 
3.09 (a) of this Agreement; 
(c) “ANSES” 
means 
Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social
,
the 
Borrower’s National Social Security Administration, established as a decentralized 
institution (
organismo descentralizado
)
within Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, 
Employment and Social Security (
Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social
)
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 2741/1991 dated December 26, 1991 (duly 
published in the Borrower’s official gazette on January 8, 1992), which Decree was 
ratified by Article 167 of the Borrower’s Law No. 24.241 of September 23, 1993 (duly 
published in the Borrower’s official gazette on October 18, 1993), as said Decree has 
been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“ANSES I” means the National Pension Administration Technical 
Assistance Project partially financed by the Bank Loan No. 4131-AR pursuant to the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement entered into between the Borrower 
and the Bank on April 17, 1997, as amended; 
(e) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Non-Consultant Services” means
 
expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower, through the PCU, to finance the provision of services under the Project, which 
services will be bid and contracted on the basis of performance of measurable physical 
outputs; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g)  
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Bank; 
(h) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit established within ANSES;  
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 
24, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(j) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;  
(k) “SSS” 
means 
Secretaría de Seguridad Social
,
the Borrower’s Social 
Security Secretariat, established within the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, Employment 
and Social Security (
Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social
); and  
(l) 
“Steering Committee” means the committee established pursuant to 
Resolution No. 355 of May 16, 2005 issued by the Borrower’s Ministry of Labor, 
Employment and Social Security (
Ministerio de Trabajo, Empleo y Seguridad Social
). 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty five 
million Dollars ($25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, consultants’ services and Non-Consultant Services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina 
on
terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out Parts A, C and D of the Project, through 
ANSES; and (b) carry out Part B of the Project through
 
the SSS (which shall be 
responsible for the technical aspects under said Part of the Project), with the assistance of 
ANSES in respect of the disbursement and procurement aspects under said Part of the 
Project (as the contents of said responsibility and assistance are described in the 
Operational Manual), all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial management, technical, social, civil service and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, consultants’ services and Non-Consultant Services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the 
Procurement Plan.  
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, said manual to 
include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project’s chart of accounts and internal controls; (ii) the FMR 
formats; (iii) the terms of reference for carrying out the Project audits; (iv) the structure, 
functions and responsibilities of the Steering Committee and the PCU; (v) the contents of 
the responsibility and assistance  referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement; (vi) 
the Project indicators; (vii) the formats of the financial statements referred to in Section 
4.01 of this Agreement; and (viii) the Project disbursement and procurement procedures, 
including the standard bidding documents for the goods and Non-Consultant Services to 
be procured under the Project.  
 
(b) 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and 
those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and maintain, at all times during 
Project implementation a steering committee (the Steering Committee) with a structure 
and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
responsibility to oversee the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) operate and maintain, at 
all times during Project implementation, the PCU with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to assist 
the Borrower  in Project implementation, monitoring and supervision. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the PCU is, at all times during Project 
implementation, headed by a national director, who will be assisted by an administrative 
coordinator, other professional staff (including two accountants (one senior and one 
junior) and a procurement specialist) and administrative staff, all in numbers and with 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.  
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than February 28, 2006, create, and 
thereafter maintain throughout Project implementation, a specific budget line entry in 
each of its annual budgets in order to keep track of the corresponding expenditures 
incurred during Project implementation. 
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and to furnish 
to the Bank, not later than April 30 and October 31 of each year of Project 
implementation (starting with the report due in April 2006), a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
calendar semester preceding the date of presentation of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the following calendar semester; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank and ANSES not later than November 30 of each 
year of Project implementation (starting in the year 2006), the pertinent reports referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take and/or cause to be taken, as the 
case may be, all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.  
Section 3.08. (a) If the Borrower deems it appropriate, the Borrower, through 
ANSES, may enter into an agreement (the Agency Agreement) with an entity (which 
entity shall have disbursement and procurement experience and qualifications acceptable 
to the Bank) on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank, which terms shall include, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of said entity to act as the Borrower’s disbursement and 
procurement agent under the Project. 
(b) (i) In the event that the Agency Agreement has been signed by the parties 
thereto, the Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail 
to enforce the Agency Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31 of each year of 
Project implementation, starting in year 2005, furnish to the Bank, for its approval, an 
annual action plan, each said plan to include, 
inter alia
,
the Project activities to be carried 
out by the Borrower during the calendar year following the presentation of each said 
plan; (b) thereafter implement each said Annual Action Plan in accordance with its terms; 
and (c) carry out the Annual Action Plan for the year 2005 as approved by the Bank prior 
to the date of this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, strengthen (in a manner acceptable to the Bank) the financial management system 
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain within the PCU a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  10
-
9
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar semester; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the entity referred to in Section 3.08 
(a) of this Agreement shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Agency Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Operational Manual has been adopted by the 
Borrower. 
 
Section 6.02. The date October 12, 2006, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Production of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Economía y Producción 
 
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250 
 
C1109ADA, Buenos Aires 
 
Argentina 
 
Cable address:   
  
       Telex: 
      Facsimile: 
 
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA     121942-AR 
     (5411)43498815 
 
Baires 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-639 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, USA and Buenos Aires, Argentina , as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC 
 
By/s/ Felisa Miceli 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pamela Cox 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed 
(1) 
Goods  
21,175,000 
100% (except 
 
as provided in 
 
Section 5.08 of 
 
the General 
 
Conditions) 
 
(2) Consultants' 
2,070,000 
30% 
 
services (excluding the  
 
fees to be paid to the entity  
 
referred to in Section 3.08 
 
(a) of this Agreement) 
 
 
 
(3)      Training 
235,000 
 
100% 
 
(4)      Non-Consultant Services 
270,000 
 
30% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
250,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
 Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 Collars 
 
this 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,000,000
25,000,000 
 TOTAL 
========== 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, 
the term “Training” means expenditures (other 
than those for consultants’ services) incurred by the Borrower, through the PCU, as 
approved by the Bank on the basis of an annual budget acceptable to the Bank, to finance 
reasonable transportation costs and per-diem of trainers (if applicable), training 
registration fees, and rental of training equipment under the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $5,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within one year before that date 
but after February 1, 2005.  
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods, 
individual consultants and consulting firms not subject to Prior Review as referred to in 
Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (b) Training and Non-Consultant 
Services, as set forth in Categories (3) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) enhance ANSES’ service-delivery 
capacity, through the improvement of its: (i) efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and 
accountability functions; and (ii) change management initiatives; and (b) support the 
institutional strengthening of the SSS. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Institutional Effectiveness of ANSES
1. 
(a) Carrying out of a diagnostic of ANSES’ institutional strategy for purposes 
thereafter of, 
inter alia
:
(i) designing ANSES’ strategy to be aligned with said 
institution’s new vision and demands (which strategy, once designed, shall be reflected in 
a
strategic plan, acceptable to the Bank); (ii) enhancing strategic management tools to 
improve institutional performance; and (iii) designing a new monitoring and evaluation 
system; and (b) strengthening of ANSES’ corporate governance, so as to provide 
incentives for institutional change. 
2. 
(a) Redesign of ANSES’s core business processes (as approved by the Bank), 
including but not limited to the carrying out of a diagnostic of current operational 
processes; and (b) automation and integration of the business processes mentioned in (a) 
herein so as to group and simplify said processes, if needed, and enhance the efficiency 
and service-delivery functions of ANSES. 
3. 
Redefinition of ANSES’ organizational structure (in line with the newly designed 
strategy referred to in Part A.1 (a)(i) above), which redefinition consists of, 
inter alia
,
the 
following activities (as approved by the Bank): (a) the carrying out of a functional 
analysis of the institution; (b) the strengthening of its audit, planning and services 
departments; (c) the strengthening of its human resources department (including the 
strengthening of ANSES’ human resources management system, and the design and 
implementation of a career plan); and (d) the improvement of ANSES’ service delivery at 
the decentralized level, all so as to eliminate functional gaps and overlaps, and contribute 
to the clarification of the roles of said areas. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Part B
:
Institutional Effectiveness of the SSS
1. 
Strengthening of the management capacity of the SSS, through, 
inter alia
,
the 
following activities (as approved by the Bank): (a) the design of a management strategy; 
(b) the reengineering and automation of core business processes and their functions; and 
(c) the development of a monitoring and evaluation system, so as to improve the 
oversight function of the SSS. 
2. 
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the SSS, through, 
inter alia
,
the 
following activities (as approved by the Bank): (a) the carrying out of: (i) selected studies 
(as approved by the Bank) on different social security systems; (ii) actuarial analyses 
with respect to, 
inter alia
,
the performance of the Borrower’s social security system; (iii) 
a
review of the Borrower’s existing legislation on social security, as well as a review of 
foreign legislation on said matter; and (iv) information and communication technology 
investments for data analysis and data exchange; and (b) the provision of training 
required therefor. 
 
3. 
(a) Carrying out of a campaign to disseminate information concerning the 
Borrower’s social security system; (b) improvement of access to information on the 
services performed by the SSS and other related agencies/institutions under the oversight 
of the SSS; and (c) carrying out of workshops and participation in seminars on social 
security matters. 
Part C
:
Transparency and Participation
1. 
(a) Carrying out of a diagnostic of ANSES’ current control and audit 
mechanisms; (b) design and implementation of: (i) a methodology for fraud and error 
detection (including the design of a territorial information system and digital maps); (ii) 
uniform guidelines for benefit determination, including the computerization of said 
guidelines; and (iii) an exchange of information program between ANSES and other 
agencies and institutions to be selected by ANSES (in a manner acceptable to the Bank) 
on beneficiary data; and (c) strengthening of the capacity of ANSES’ staff on 
transparency practices, fraud and error detection and ethics, so as to improve 
transparency within ANSES. 
2. 
Strengthening of ANSES’ mechanisms to comply with final judicial decisions 
dealing with social security benefits, through, 
inter alia
,
the following activities (as 
approved by the Bank): (a) the carrying out of a diagnostic of ANSES’ capacity to 
comply with said judicial decisions; (b) the systematization and standardization of 
ANSES’ management processes and practices to improve its efficiency in complying 
with said judicial decisions; and (c) the design and implementation of mechanisms to 
Page  18
-
17
-
monitor compliance with said judicial decisions, so as to improve fraud and error 
detection.     
3. (a) 
Expansion 
o
f
citizens’ participation to monitor ANSES’ performance and 
service-delivery; (b) design and implementation of, 
inter alia
:
(i) social accountability 
evaluation mechanisms for the use of ANSES’ beneficiaries and the general public; and 
(ii) scorecard, feedback and complaints mechanisms; (c) strengthening of ANSES’ 
advisory body (
Organo Consultivo
); (d) creation of the ombudsperson office with 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank (including the provision of the 
necessary operational support); (e) improvement of access to information on ANSES’ 
performance and services; and (f) upgrading of ANSES’ single-window (“
ventanilla 
única”
)
and other communication systems concerning, 
inter alia
,
ANSES’ performance, 
quality standards, citizens’ rights and business processes and outcomes. 
Part D
:
Change Management
1. 
Strengthening of the PCU and the Steering Committee in order to carry out their 
functions and responsibilities mentioned in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement.  
2. 
Strengthening of ANSES’ procurement and financial management capacity, 
through, 
inter alia
,
the following activities (as approved by the Bank): (a) standardization 
of procurement and financial management practices and processes, including the 
publication of said practices and processes, and the outcome of the same, in a manner 
acceptable to the Bank; (b) carrying out of pilot activities on financial management and 
procurement (including e-procurement); and (c) provision of training on procurement and 
financial management aspects. 
3.  
(a) Strengthening of ANSES’ monitoring and evaluation functions; (b) carrying 
out of an evaluation of ANSES I; (c) establishment of a baseline to measure and monitor 
Project performance, including the publication (in a manner acceptable to the Bank) of 
said baseline and the information concerning progress in complying with the Project 
indicators (as the same are set forth in the Operational Manual); and (d) strengthening of 
participatory monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.  
4. 
Design and implementation of change management mechanisms, through, 
inter 
alia
:
(a) carrying out of a diagnostic of current change management practices (including 
stakeholder analysis); (b) design and implementation of a change management strategy; 
(c) carrying out of internal and external communication strategies; (d) dissemination of 
management practices and change management progress; (e) institutionalization of 
change management mechanisms; (f) design of mechanisms to develop innovative 
management practices to improve service delivery which can be replicated and scaled up 
in ANSES; and (g) design and implementation of a learning program to strengthen the 
Page  19
-
18
-
capacity of ANSES staff and Project stakeholders on management practices and 
innovations, and service delivery improvement.  
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2010. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
Sept. 15, 2011 
4.75% 
 
March 15, 2012 
4.75% 
 
Sept. 15, 2012 
4.75% 
 
March 15, 2013 
4.75% 
Sept. 15, 2013 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2014 
5.50% 
 
Sept. 15, 2014 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2015 
5.50% 
 
Sept. 15, 2015 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2016 
5.50% 
 
Sept. 15, 2016 
5.50% 
 
March 15, 2017 
5.50% 
 
Sept. 15, 2017 
6.03% 
 
March 15, 2018 
6.03% 
 
Sept. 15, 2018 
6.03% 
 
March 15, 2019 
6.03% 
 
Sept. 15, 2019 
6.45% 
 
March 15, 2020 
6.43% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
Page  21
-
20
-
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
C. 
Without limitation to the provisions in paragraphs A and B of this Section, the 
following additional provisions shall also govern the procurement of goods, Non-
Consultant Services and consultants’ services under the Project (as the case may be): 
(a) 
procurement of goods and Non-Consultant Services shall be carried out 
using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank;   
(b) 
 
 
 
a two-envelope bidding procedure shall not be allowed in the 
procurement of goods and Non-Consultant Services;  
(c) 
after the public opening of bids, information relating to the examination, 
clarification and evaluation of bids and proposals and recommendations concerning 
awards shall not be disclosed to bidders or consultants or other persons not officially 
concerned with this process until the publication of contract award (except as provided in 
paragraphs 2.20 and 2.27 of the Consultant Guidelines); 
(d) 
bidders or consultants shall not, as a condition for submitting bids or 
proposals and/or for contract award: (i) be required to be registered in Argentina; (ii) 
have a representative in Argentina; and (iii) be associated or subcontract with Argentine 
suppliers, contractors or consultants; 
(e)  
the invitations to bid, bidding documents, minutes of bid openings, 
requests for expressions of interest and the evaluation reports of bids and proposals of all 
goods, Non-Consultant Services and consultants’ services, as the case may be, shall be 
published in a web page acceptable to the Bank, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank;  
Page  23
-
22
-
(f) 
the provisions set forth in paragraphs 2.49 through 2.54 and 2.59 of the 
Procurement Guidelines shall also be applicable to contracts for goods and Non-
Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive Bidding procedures; and 
(g) 
the publication of bidders in one or more specialized magazines shall not 
be used by the Borrower in determining if the bidder whose bid has been determined to 
be the lowest evaluated bid has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the 
contract as offered in the bid, as referred to in the provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of 
the Procurement Guidelines. The provision set forth in paragraph 2.58 of the Procurement 
Guidelines (including the limitation set forth herein shall also be applicable to contract 
for goods and Non-Consultant Services to be procured under National Competitive 
Bidding procedures).   
D. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant 
Services
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract; and (b) Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of National Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
(a) Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; 
and (b) Non-Consultant Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  24
-
23
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Proc
urement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $1,500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)        (i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  26
-
25
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the  
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  27
-
26
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
