                                                Document of
                                              The World Bank

                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                 ReportNo: 37712-PK




                                   PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                  ONA

                                    PROPOSEDTRUST FUNDGRANT

                                  INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$5 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                   ISLAMICREPUBLICOFPAKISTAN

                                                 FORAN

                                 EARTHQUAKE DISABILITYPROJECT

                                                May 16,2007




SocialProtectionSector
HumanDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia Region


This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bedisclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
         (Exchange Rate Effective October 11, 2006)
             Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR.)
                     PKR. 1 = US$60.62

                      FISCALYEAR
                     July 1     - June30

          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AJK       Azad Jammu Kashmir
CBR        Community-Based Rehabilitation
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
DSPs      Disability SpecializedPartners
ERRA       Earthquake Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency
Em-CMLT    ERRA's Central Management Unit(for disability)
GOP        Government of Pakistan
HI         Handicap International
MIS        Management Information System
NMd        National Institute of the Handicapped
NWFF       NorthWest Frontier Province
PIMS       Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences
PIPOS      Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic and Orthotics Sciences
PPAF       Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
POS        Partner Organizations
PWDs       Personswith Disabilities
R&R        Reconstruction & Rehabilitation

uc
SMT        SocialMobilization Team
           Union Council



             Vice President:       Praful Pate1
           Country Director:       Yusupha Crookes
            Sector Director:       Julian Schweitzer
            Sector Manager:        Mansoora Rashid
          Task TeamLeader:         RasmusHeltberg
       Co-Task Team Leader:        Aleksandra Posarac

                                                                 PAKISTAN                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                  EarthquakeDisabilityProject

                                                                 CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                        Page

     I STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE
       .                                                                                  .............................................................    3
        A. Country andsector issues....................................................................................................                    3
        B. Rationalefor Bank involvement.........................................................................................                          3
        C.   Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                               ....................................................   4

      I1.     PROJECTDESCRIPTION                        .............................................................................................      4
        A .  Lendinginstrument .............................................................................................................               4
        B .   Project development objective and key indicators..............................................................                               4
        C .   Project components .............................................................................................................             5
        D. Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design..........................................................                                      10

      I11.    IMPLEMENTATION                   ....................................................................................................       12
        A .   Partnership arrangements (if applicable) ..........................................................................                          12
        B .  Institutional and implementation arrangements..                           ..............................................................      12
        C .  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomedresults..                            ..............................................................      13
        D.    Sustainability .....................................................................................................................         13
        E. Critical risks andpossible controversialaspects                            ...............................................................      13
        F .  Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            14

      IV .    APPRAISALSUMMARY                        .............................................................................................        14
        A .  Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                         14
        B. Technical...........................................................................................................................            14
        C.    Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................        14
        D. Social.................................................................................................................................         15
        E. Environment......................................................................................................................               16
        F.    Safeguard policies      .............................................................................................................        16
        G. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness......................................................................................                             16

      Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................     17

     Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bankand/or otherAgencies                                                                .................19

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                        ........................................................................     20

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription               ......................................................................................      24

Annex 5: Project Costs  ...............................................................................................................       33

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                   .................................................................................      34

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                                 ..................................... 39

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                ......................................................................................       40

Annex 9: Eligibility Criteria & Terms of Partnership                          ............................................................    42

Annex 10: Project Preparationand Supervision                        .....................................................................     44

Annex 11:Documentsinthe Project File                   .................................................................................      45

Annex 12: Statement of Loans and Credits                  ..............................................................................      46

Annex 13: Country at a Glance        .................................................................................................        49

Annex 14: MapIBRDNo       .35033...............................................................................................               51

                                           PAKISTAN

                                 EARTHQUAKEDISABILITY

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                         SOUTH ASIA

                                             SASHD

Date: May 16, 2007                               TeamLeader: RasmusHeltberg
Country Director: Yusupha Crookes                Sectors: Health (50%); Other social services
Sector Managermirector: Mansoora Rashid          (50%)
                                                 Themes: Natural disastermanagement(P);Other
                                                 social protectionand risk management(P)
Project ID: PO99542                              Environmental screening category: Not Required
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan

                                      ProjectFinancingData
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit   [ 3 Grant  [ ] Guarantee      [XI Other: special financing from IBRD
                                                          surplus

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 0.00


                  Source                         Local             Foreign              Total
BORROWER                                            0.00                0.00               0.00
SPECIAL FINANCING                                   0.00                5.00               5.00
Total:                                              0.00                5.00               5.00

Borrower:
ISLAMICREPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
Economic Affairs Division
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
Pakistan
Tel: +92 51 920 3815   Fax: +92 5 921 8976

ResponsibleAgency:
Pakistan PovertyAlleviation Fund
House No. 1, Street No. 20
Sector F-7/2
Pakistan
Tel: 2653304   Fax: 2652246
ppaf@isb.comsats.net.pk
www.ppaf.org.pk




                                                1

Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?Ref.
PAD A.2                                                                                     [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                                [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                                 [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                                [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                                [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regionalcriteria for readiness for implementation? Ref.
PAD D.7                                                                                     [XIYes [ ] N o


Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
To improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families inareas affected by the
October 8,2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improved physical and mental health, increased
participation in social and economic life, and strengthenedempowerment.

Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
Component 1: Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment--ensure delivery of a range of
services addressingdisability and mentalhealthneeds of PWDs and their families while at the same time
mobilizing and empowering them to take action on disability.

Component 2: Capacity buildingfor disability rehabilitation--build the capacity of the PPAF, its partner
organizations, as well as service providers and civil society organizations to ensurerehabilitation services
to the PWDsand their families.

Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation--finance the project management and
support functions undertaken by the PPAF.

Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60)

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:

Loadcredit effectiveness:

Covenants applicable to project implementation:




                                                      2

I.STRATEGICCONTEXTANDRATIONALE

A. Country and sector issues

 1.      The 7.6 magnitude earthquake that hit Pakistan on October 8, 2005 devastated one of the most
remote mountainous parts of the world and one of the poorest parts of Pakistan. According to the joint
ADB-World Bank Needs Assessment, approximately 73,000 people died and more than 70,000 have been
severely injured or disabled. Many injured had amputated limbs or severe spinal cord injuries that left
them paralyzed. Preliminary estimates show a large population affected by physical or mental disorders
and disabilities, including post-traumatic stress and trauma. Besides those newly disabled because of the
earthquake, persons already disabled have sometimes lost their support systems and whatever services
they were getting before the earthquake. People with disabilities will need external help geared to long-
term rehabilitation.

2.       The magnitude of physical destruction, much bigger than first estimated, has focused the
government's reconstruction efforts on housing with an aim to reconstruct most of the houses and secure
shelter for the earthquake victims before winter. Housing reconstruction i s stretching local capacities and
causing other rehabilitation needs including those of the disabled people to remain largely unaddressed.
The field visits and discussions with communities have indicated that many persons with disabilities
(PWDs) still need medicalhelp; many more need physicalrehabilitation, and almost all who experienced
the earthquake are in need of psycho-social assistance. These needs are placed against a severe lack of
social services inthe earthquake-affected areas.

3.       Inresponseto the earthquake, the government has adopted the National Strategy and Plan of
Action for Vulnerable Populations in Earthquake-affected Areas, and the Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Agency (ERRA) has recently prepared a social protection strategy and set up a Central
Management Unit for disability efforts inthe earthquake affected areas (ERRA-CMU).These documents
formulate strategies and policies for assisting the vulnerable, including the PWDs, with community-based
rehabilitation as key approach in an environment that faces an acute shortage of services and severely
constrained resources. The proposed project i s consistent with these strategy documents and will be
implemented based on these strategies and in coordination with ERRA-CMU.The project would closely
coordinate activities with ERRA and other actors operating in the affected areas to strengthen possible
synergies and avoid duplication and overlap. The Bank's task team has extended an invitation to the
ERRA-CMUto conductjoint supervision of project activities.

B. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

4.       The earthquake-affected population, including persons with disabilities has been assisted by the
government, donors and non-governmental organizations. The general assistance package for the
earthquake-affected households includes housing reconstruction grants, cash compensation for
deathhjury, and temporary cash transfers for income support and livelihood recovery. The World Bank
has supported the government's relief, reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts since immediately after
the earthquakethrough a range of activities and $840 millionnew lending and $30million inreallocation.
The new lending includes a $400 million Emergency Recovery Credit and a $100 million additional
finance to the PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund, approved by the Board on December 15,2005.

5.      The PWDs in the earthquake-affected areas need medical care and specialized rehabilitation
services in addition to the cash transfers and housing. The World Bank and the Japanese Government
have approved two emergency JSDF projects for disability, which will help establish four Resource and
Information Centers for community-based rehabilitation (through Handicap International), and four
independent living centers (co-located in the Resource and Information Centers and operated by


                                                      3

Milestone Society, a Disabled Peoples Organization) in the earthquake-affected areas. Also, a few
services for people with disabilities have been provided through the health care system and other actors,
although some of these services were on a relief basis and have now ceased. These services are well
below the needs and not always of acceptable quality. There i s also a lack of know-how of community-
based rehabilitation and inclusion of persons with disabilities, calling for capacity building for the
relevant actors.

6.       The proposed project will fill in some of the gaps in service provision to the PWDs in the
earthquake districts. It will pilot a community-based approach to rehabilitation, offering a learning
experience for the government's strategy that envisages community-based rehabilitation (CBR) as a core
aspect of its disability policies. It will also contribute to building local capacity to address disability
issues, applying state-of-the-art knowledge, techniques, and approaches.

7.       The proposedproject i s listed inthe Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and its objectives support
the third CAS pillar of improving lives and protecting the vulnerable. The Pakistan Earthquake Disability
Project, by supporting the establishment and improvements in delivery of services to persons with
disabilities or mental health issues through community-based rehabilitation, is continuing a long-standing
trend for the Bank in Pakistan to be a partner in disability with a special focus on launching innovative
and catalytic initiatives.

C. Higher levelobjectivesto which the projectcontributes

8.       The project contributes to Pakistan's long-term objective of reducing poverty and vulnerability
and improving the welfare of its disadvantaged groups. Persons with disabilities (PWDs) are one of the
most disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized segments of society. The project will test a model for
community-based service delivery to and empowerment of this group. If successful, the model could be
scaledup, integratingpersons with disabilities better into social and economic life.

11. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

A. Lendinginstrument

9.        On December 23, 2005, the World Bank Board of Directors approved the recommendation
contained in a memorandum entitled Pakistan: Proposed Trust Fund for Earthquake Disaster Recovery
(R2005-0261; IDAlR2005-0248) and with resolution numbers IBRD 2005-0011 and IDA 2005-0008
authorized the allocation of the $5 million grant from the IBRD surplus fund to support disability arising
from Pakistan's earthquake emergency. This money was transferred to a Trust Fund [TF070449] and will
be usedto finance the proposed project.

B. Project development objective and key indicators

10.      To improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families inareas affected by the
October 8,2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improvedphysical and mentalhealth, increased
participation insocial and economic life, and strengthenedempowerment.

11.      Specifically, the project aims to achieve the following outcomes in its primary target area of 34
ucs:

         i. ImprovedqualityoflifeofthetargetedPWDs,asindicatedbytheirbetterhealth,improved
             mobility, increasedcapacity to take care of themselves and participate in social and economic
             life.


                                                      4

         ..
        11.  Improved mental health of the targeted earthquake victims through easing and relieving their
         ... post-traumatic stress and disorders.
        111. Improved and increasedcapacity of the community-based service providers, as well as that of
             specialized institutions, to provide good quality rehabilitation servicesto the PWDs.
        iv. More enabling environment and increased social mobilization of the PWDs, their families
             and communities to take action on disability.

C. Project components

12.     The project targets PWDs, primarily in 34 earthquake-affected union councils; they are the UCs
inwhich the PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund(PPAF), the executing agencyfor this project, is carrying
out reconstruction and rehabilitation on behalf of the government. Some project activities, however, will
support the efforts by the E m - C M U to provide benefits to PWDs in all the earthquake affected areas;
the activities that will be undertaken in all earthquake areas include assistive devices for the PWDs;
awareness raising; training of disability social workers; and sharing with ERRA of training materials and
international technical advisor. This project aims to reach all persons with disabilities and their families,
regardless of type of disability and whether the disability was pre- or post-earthquake. An initial census
conducted by the PPAF revealed some 7,700 physically disabled in the 34 project UCs (see Table 1and
appendix 4). Allowing for underreporting and mental health issues (not covered by PPAF's initial
census), leads to an estimate of a target population of 15-20,000.

                                Table 1:Populationand PWDsinproject areas
            Total population:                                                             471,254
            Total number of houseshouseholds:                                              86,945
            Casualties:                                                                      7,842
            Most vulnerable (widows, elderly, orphans, or disabledwithout support):          4,902

            Disabled (incidence of physicaldisabilities):                                    7,742

            Of which disabled adults:                                                        4,398
            Disabledchildren                                                                 3,344
          Source:PPAF

13.      The project has three components: (i)    provision of services, mobilization and empowerment of
people with disabilities and mental health issues and their families, (ii)      capacity building for service
providers and civil society organizations, and (iii)project management, monitoring, and evaluation.

Component 1:Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment (US$3.9 million)

14.     The objective of this component i s to ensure delivery of a range of services addressing disability
and mental health needs of PWDs and their families while at the same time mobilizing and empowering
them to take action on disability. The component will ensure service delivery, mobilization and
empowerment through a two-pronged strategy, comprising (a) community-based rehabilitation and (b)
rehabilitation through a referral to specialized service providers (institutions).

15.     Community-based rehabilitation will target the PWDs, their families, and communitiesthrough
social mobilization and other community-based activities aimed at raising awareness and knowledge
regarding disability, and inducing and stimulating the demand for disability-focused services. This
component will inparticular aim at empowering the disabled to claim and identify ways of meeting their
needs for     rehabilitation and ensure participation in social and economic                   life. Besides


                                                       5

enabling/empowerment/inclusion initiatives, the CBR approach aims at arranging for the provision of
basic disability rehabilitative services at the community level provided by professionals, trained
community organizers, and volunteers, including the PWDs themselves.

16.      The CBR activities under this project will be carried out by a network of already operating
community mobilization teams-strengthened          by two disability community workers per union council
and will feed into (and benefit from) the CBR activities emanating from the four planned Resource and
Information Centers. These centers (envisagedto operate inMansehra, Besham, Muzaffarabad, and Bagh)
are planning a full menu of CBR activities; it is expected that after this project has closed, the CBR
activities initiatedby it will continue and remain anchoredinthese centers.

17.      Specialized institution-based rehabilitation services will be provided by specialized service
providers/institutions by referringhinging the PWDs to those institutions and/or through arranging for
those institutions to deliver outreach services to the PWDs. To the extent possible, the services will be
provided locally, relying on providers already active in the earthquake-affected areas. The services will
include medical treatment, physical rehabilitation, provision of prosthetics and other aids, psycho-social
     ..
counseling, and other specialized services. For example:

         Medical treatment (over and above the services offered by local clinics and practitioners) will be
         provided mostly by major hospitals inside and outside the area.
         Physical rehabilitation i s expected to be mainly provided by the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic
         and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS), a government institution located in Peshawar. PIPOS runs five
         rehabilitation centers in the earthquake areas, each providing rehabilitation services such as
         production/fitting/maintenance of state of the art prosthetic and orthotics devices and
     .   physiotherapy, as well as psycho-social rehabilitation. Handicap International (HI) supports
         PIPOS with technical assistance, training, quality assurance, and management training.
         Mental health services are almost non-existent in the project areas and will therefore be procured
         specially by the project. Qualified providers will be invited to submit bids for such services, on a
         consultancy basis. The Operations Manual will specify the quality standards against which bids
         will be evaluated. Already, the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Psychiatry
         Department, has indicated its interest in providing and training special teams of mental health
         counselors. Indoing this, PIMS will be buildingon its experience acquired duringthe emergency
     .   psycho-social relief it provided right after the earthquake. Assistance from the WHO will also be
         sought.
         Special and difficult cases that cannot be treated locally will be referred to relevant tertiary
         institutions, includingamong others the National Institute of the Handicapped (NIHd). Whenever
         possible, institutionsthat offer services provided free of charge would be preferred.

18.      The key activities under this component will comprise:

(i) Identijkation of people with disabilities and needs assessment. The startingpoint for the
assessment will be initial data already collected by the PPAF on households with disabled members inthe
34 union councils'. This data i s incomplete, and a detailed identification and needs assessment is
therefore required and will be carried out at the start of the project to complete (in coverage, scope, and
detail) the initial data. A standard method for identification and needs assessment will be used (to be
provided by the Handicap International). This information will be entered into the management
information system (MIS) of the PPAF and partner organizations and will be used to track cases. The



 The data were collected as part of a housing damage assessment undertaken by PPAF. The assessment comprised
all households in34 UCs and was completed inJune 2006.


                                                       6

identificationand needs assessment will be conducted by trained disability social workers incollaboration
with specialized partners.

(ii)Formulationandrealizationof individual rehabilitationplansfor allPWDsintheprojectarea.
Based on the needs assessment, individual rehabilitation plans will be formulated by disability social
workers and the PWDs, under the guidance and backing of professional staff from the HI and
internationally recruited experts. These plans would comprise strategies for the provision of short- and
long-term services for all types of disabilities and mental health needs such as health care, physical
rehabilitation (for instance, basic physiotherapy, occupational therapy, provision of assistive devices'),
training in independent living, psycho-social counseling, and treatment of mental disorders. The priority
will be given to activities that support, ease and enhance the capability of the PWDs to perform daily
household chores and/or occupation-related tasks, thus improving the quality of life, welfare and
livelihood of the disabled and their families. Workshops addressing specific needs, for instance those
related to sensory impairment such as blindness and deafness can also be carried out. The services under
the individual rehabilitation plans will be provided by specialized institutions (delivered preferably
through outreach), and by trained community organizers, community-based organizations, trained
volunteers, etc. As already mentioned, a special effort will be made to arrange for mental health services
(see below).

Taking into account the time frame and resources available to the project, individual cases will be
prioritized for service delivery by urgency of need as assessedby trained professionals.

(iii)Mappingandcapacityassessmentof serviceproviders toreceivereferrals (onlyifnecessaly).A
mapping and capacity assessment exercise will be undertaken by the PPAF with its disability specialized
partners to identify institutions currently providing physical and mental rehabilitation that would have
capacity to receive referrals of the targeted PWDs and provide good quality services. The capacity
assessment would also serve: (a) as a basis for setting quality standards (see below); (b) for planning
capacity enhancement and training of these services providers (see Component 2); and (c) ina few cases,
to assist with procurement of essentialdrugs or equipment.

(iv) Monitoring the quality of rehabilitation services. The PPAF, with inputs from specialized partners
and international organizations, will define (in the Operations Manual) the standards for rehabilitation
services for identified partners and service providers and ensure that services provided under the project
are adequate and of hightechnical quality. PPAFwill arrange third party assessments of the services and
activities as needed.

(v)   Mobilization, social integration and empowerment through community-based information,
education and communication (IEC). Community-based IEC would include a broad range of activities
aimed at mobilizing and empowering the PWDs to organize themselves to take action on disability and
improving their livelihoodandintegrationinto community life, for example: dissemination of information
on disability, establishment of thematichelf-help groups; promotion of self-esteem or independent living;
promotion of school enrollment of disabled children; awareness and anti-discrimination campaigns
targeting schools, elders, women's groups, midwifes, and others. These activities would be supported
through small grants awarded to community groups and NGOs against deliverables. Organizations would
apply to PPAF for funding of projects that meet these objectives, and a large number of smaller
organizations are expected to avail of this small grant facility. Some of the awareness raising activities
will be for the entire earthquakeaffected areas and will be carried out together with ERRA-CMU.


'In collaboration with ERRA-CMUand the Resource& InformationCenters, provision of assistivedevicesfor
PWDswill target PWDsinall earthquake affectedareas, but giving preferenceto PWDsinthe 34 PPAFUCs.


                                                     7

The key actors

19.     The PPAF, its partner organizations (POs), disability specialized partners (DSPs) and several
community-based service providers and activity organizers will be involved in implementing this
component with the following responsibilities and roles:

20.     PPAF is the project executing agency and will ensure that the project i s implemented
successfully and its development objectives are accomplished. The PPAF will select the POs and DSPs
that would carry out the project activities. The PPAF will perform supervision, monitoring, and
evaluation.

21.     Partner Organizations (POs) will be selected based on the quality of their proposals as per
PPAF guidelines. Their task will be to: (i)  mobilize the communities in 34 UCs for action on disability
issues through social mobilization teams (SMTs); (ii)   recruit two disability social workers per U C (one
female, one male) and provide for their training in disability issues in coordination with disability
specialized partners; (iii)conduct the identification and needs assessment incollaboration with the DSPs;
(iv) develop individual rehabilitation plans; (v) carry out disability-related awareness raising activities;
(vi) ensure participation of community organizations, households and the PWDs in launching disability
services and activities; and (vii) support, supervise, register and monitor the PWDs and their families
participationinproject activities.

22.     Disability Specialized Partners-DSPs (Handicap International, Pakistan Institute for Medical
Science, and others to be identified) will: (i)
                                              carry out capacity and skills development of the POs and the
PWDs and their families; (ii) the POs inplanningand conducting the initial identificationandneeds
                               assist
assessment; (iii) assist the POs and their community organizers in developing individual rehabilitation
plans and monitor their implementation from the technical view; (iv) map institutions for referral of the
PWDs for treatment and rehabilitation; (v) provide, if required, capacity training to institutions mapped
for service referrals; (vi) establish a mechanism for referral of the PWDs to the institutions including
services which will be provided as community outreach services; (vii) help define the standards of
services and ensure compliance; and (viii) support the supervision and monitoring of service delivery at
community and specialized institutions level.

23.     Community-based service providers: Community-based groups and organizations will be
essentialindesigning, organizing and carrying out rehabilitative services and mobilization, empowerment
and social inclusion activities. Those organizations will be invited to submit their proposals to the PPAF.
The PPAF would evaluate the proposals and award small grants against deliverables for those who
qualify for financing. The skills, competences and awareness acquired by the PWDs, their families and
communities through active participation inrehabilitation activities would be essential inempowering the
PWDsto be fully enjoying and contributing members of society.

Component 2: Capacity building for disability rehabilitation (US$0.45 million)

24.     The objective of this component i s to buildthe capacity of the PPAF, its partner organizations, as
well as service providers and civil society organizations to ensure rehabilitation services to the PWDs and
their families. Capacity building/skills development i s required since neither the PPAF, nor its
implementing POs have competences and previous experience in disability work. Training on all aspects
of disability work will be delivered by Handicap International and others. Training will be tailored to
meet the needs of the PWDs, their families and communities as identified inthe needs assessment.




                                                      8

Sensitizationof Project and PO management:
25.      To ensure commitment and shared understanding of project objectives and design, the PPAF's
general management, the PPAF's Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Unit staff, and the POs' management
will be provided with a half day disability sensitization course. Inaddition, a two weeks disability course
for direct (operational) managerskore staff of the PPAF and its partners will be conducted at the project
start.

Training of disability social workers:
26.      A standard training course of two weeks in identification and needs assessment of all types of
disabilities will be conducted at the project launch, targeting disability social workers who will be
recruited to reinforce already operating social mobilization teams of the PPAF's POs. Following the
needs assessment, a disability/CBR training course of three months will be provided over a period of 12
months, using interval training so as to allow project implementation to proceed. The training will be
provided by Handicap International(through its technical advisors who will act as master trainers); some
of the training will also support the disability social workers hiredby the ERRA-CMU.

Capacity building of specializedserviceproviders (institutions):
27.      Handicap International will draw on internationally hired expertise to strengthen its ongoing
collaborationwith the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS) inproviding quality
assurance training to the Institute and its five prosthetic centers established in the NWFP and AJK. The
training would ensurethat international best practice i s followed interms of comprehensive rehabilitation
programs, including prosthetics adaptation, follow-up, physiotherapy training and psycho-social
counseling.

28.      The Pakistan Institute for Medical Sciences (PIMS) supported by internationally hired specialists
i s expected to be the main partner responsible for training of the mental health service providers. Mental
health capacity training will ensure that institutions and mobile teams have adequate competences in
diagnosis of mental disorders including testing of adults and children for mental impairment and in
service delivery in psycho-social counseling and treatment of mental disorders. PIMS already has
experience with trauma relief services for the earthquake-affected population. For six months after the
earthquake, PIMS provided counseling treatment to approximately 40,000 people in a project funded and
technically supported by the WHO and the International Office of Migration. The project was ceased as
funding ran out.

Support to community-basedorganizationsfor proposal writing:
29.      The PPAF will offer support and training as needed for the POs, DSPs, and other community-
based organizations to prepare grants proposals for the financing of disability-oriented initiatives in the
communities.

Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$0.4 million)

30.      This component will finance the project management and support functions undertaken by the
PPAF. A small disability team would be established within the PPAFand would initially form part of the
PPAF's Relief and Reconstruction Unit. The disability team would supervise all aspects of the project's
implementation. It would also prepare an Operations Manual. Followingdiscussions with ERRA-CMU, it
has been agreed to minimize the use of international consultants for this project; to the extent that
international consultants will be used, their TORSwould be developed jointly by PPAF and ERRA-CMU
and they would be basedat ERRA-CMU.




                                                        9

31.      The PPAF would also undertake its standard functions such as proposal reviews, activity
supervision, procurement, financial management, and reporting. An elaborate Management Information
System (MIS) has been developed for the PPAF's housing reconstruction. The data base captures key
information on all 105,000 householdsinthe 34 PPAF union councils. Data i s entered at field level by the
social mobilization teams (SMTs). Data i s collated at regional, POs, and PPAF levels. The systemaffords
the PPAF and the POs' management real-time information on project progress, total and by subgroups.
The database and data collection system can easily be amended to capture disability activities and would
be utilized for this project.

32.      In order to ensure that beneficiaries themselves participate in project monitoring, two advisory
councils (one in each of Azad Jammu Kashmir [AJK] and North West Frontier Province [NWFP])
comprising PWDs will be established. PPAF POs will hold quarterly meetings with these advisory
councils to share progressupdate and seek advice for improvement.

33.      There will also be survey-baseddata collection. As a pilot project, aiming to assess the suitability
     .
of the project approach to eventually cover all of Pakistan, rigorous impact and process evaluation will be
conducted with external technical assistance. It will have several elements:
         Overall impact on individuals and households: survey-based impact evaluation will be conducted
     ..  at the end of the project focusing on the overall impact, comparing ex-post outcomes to the
         baseline data.
         Intervention-based evaluation will focus on specific interventions/treatments (such as psycho-
         social counseling, physicalrehabilitation, or empowerment).
         Pilot replicability will also be assessed, focusing in particular on its organizational complexity,
         humanresources requirements, affordability and sustainability.

D. Lessonslearnedandreflectedinthe projectdesign

34.      Two sets of factors have guided the project design. The first concerns the modalities of service
delivery, which combines services provided by specialized institutions, preferably through outreach, and a
community-based rehabilitation approach; the second i s related to the choice of the executing agency for
the project.

Service delivery modality
35.      The project design reflects the need to rapidly enhance service delivery in a postlemergency
situation characterized by unmet earthquake inflicted medical, rehabilitation and mental health needs.
Hence, it relies on services provided through referral to specialized service providers (institutions). The
project also recognizes the need to establish a demand-driven, multi-sectoral, community-based
rehabilitation that would not only ensure a continuous service delivery on a sustainablebasis ina resource
constrained environment, but will do so ina manner that engages and empowers the PWDs, their families
and communities. To this end, as suggested by international experience, the project adopts the
community-basedhocial rehabilitation approach. Initially, the project will rely more on services provided
by specialized service providers. As the project implementation progresses and community-based
rehabilitation services and activities take on, it i s expected that a considerable part of the activities will be
provided through a community-based approach.

Choice of executing and implementingpartners
36.     The PPAF and its POs are well suited to manage and implement the project activities given their
extensive experience with community mobilization. The PPAF and its POs bring several advantages to
this project related to high professional standards, the likelihood of relatively rapid implementation, the
opportunity for leverage and sustainability, and the opportunity for partnership as explained in the
following:


                                                        10

    .   High quality of management and implementation. The PPAF i s an autonomous apex agency with
        well-established organizational structure and a culture of working with community-based NGOs.
    .   The PPAFhas an excellent track record of executing local development projects (related to credit,
        infrastructure, health, andeducation) andproven capacity to deliver on agreedgoals.
        High compatibility with the project activities and approach to sewice delivery. The PPAF's
        partner organizations have a network of well-trained and functioning social mobilization teams,
        which have already carried out social mobilization in the 34 union councils. These teams have
        already visited each single household inthe 34 UCs, and have compiled an extensive data base on
        those households, including initial information on their members with disabilities. Moreover, in
        most of the councils, village/community organizations have been established. Hence, existing
    .   infrastructure, ongoing community mobilization and quite extensive data base on the potential
        pool of clients provide an opportunity for rapid launchand implementationof this project.
        Strong synergies. Given the role of the PPAFand its POs as important development actors in the
        earthquake-affected areas, the disability project executed by the PPAF will be well-placed to
        exploit synergies with other PPAF's development activities in the project areas (infrastructure,
        credit, income generating, vocational training, health, and education). Many of those activities

    .   might help ensure disability mainstreaming; moreover, it is plausible that the project may have
        spillover effects on a range of development activities in the rest of Pakistan, making them more
        disability inclusive.
        Partnership. No single actor has the experience and capacity on the ground necessary to achieve
        the objective of this project. The PPAF has already established partnerships with a number of
        civil society organizations and i s well placed to bring in new actors necessary for successful
        implementation of this project such as HI, PIMS, PIPOS, and others. For instance, HI i s an
        internationally acknowledged leader in disability with experience from 60 countries worldwide
        (and from Pakistan since October 2005). The PIMS is a major national hospital and training
        institution in psychiatry and psychology and has experience in providing psycho-social relief in
        the earthquake-affected areas from a WHO-funded emergency-project which closed in March
        2006.3

E.Alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection

37.     Alternatives that were considered and rejected comprised alternative modalities of service
delivery and alternative executing agencies, as explained inthe following:

Choice of modality
38.     The exclusive reliance on the `medical model' - reliance on institutional care - i s internationally
viewed as inadequate and unsustainable in low income or resource constrained settings. This motivates
the choice of a two-pronged approach combining services offered by specialized institutions and the CBR
approach.

Choice of executingagency
39.     Apart from the PPAFand the POs, no other actors have been identified that have the experience,
operational capacity, and field-level presencerequired for meeting the needs of this project. Alternatives
to choice of project executing agency were to use a specialized government institution (such as the
National Institutefor Handicapped -NMd) or a disability specialized NGO as follows:
    .   NMdis a tertiary hospitalcenter inIslamabadwith expertise inrehabilitation.NMddoes not
        have field presenceor outreach capacity inthe earthquakeareas. NIHdmanagement has been
        consulted extensively duringproject preparation and has indicatedthat while it would play a

 The project ceasedbecausethe official emergency period ended, not because the objectives were met.


                                                     11

        coordinatingrole for the CBR and disability inthe earthquake-affected areas (as mandatedby
        ERRA) itwould refrainfromdirectly carrying onproject activities inthe field.

        No other specialized disability organization with operational setup to undertake this project was
        identified.

111. IMPLEMENTATION

A. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)

40.     No other donors are financing this operation.

B. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

41.     The Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) has extensive experience and an excellent track
record of implementing Bank-funded projects, which this project would draw upon. Existing PPAF
modalities, structures, arrangements, and systems will be utilized to the largest extent possible. Thus, the
PPAF, acting as an apex agency, will engage partner organizations (POs) to implement the project. POs
will be selected based on their merit and the strength of their proposals as per PPAF's standard
procedures.The POs will be responsible for implementingproject activities under the various components
and for reporting progress to the PPAF, as well as providing all required project data to the PPAF for
monitoring and evaluation.

42.     The PPAFwas established inFebruary 1997 as a non-profit public company. Since then, together
with a variety of partner organizations, the PPAF has been active in project implementation in about
60,000 communities throughout Pakistan (supported by two IDA credits). Inthe earthquake-affected area,
the PPAF has been mandated by the Government of Pakistan to implement reconstruction and
rehabilitation interventions in 34 union councils (supported by an IDA additional financing to the second
PPAF credit).

43.     The core management team for this project will be headed by the Head of the PPAF's
Reconstruction & Rehabilitation (R&R) Unit. A disability team with 3-5 staff members would be
established within the R&R Unit and would consist of one team leader/manager, two disability managers
for NWF'P and AJK, respectively, and up to twojunior professionals. The disability team would supervise
all aspects of the project's implementation. It would also prepare the Operations Manual, in which the
operating policies and procedures will be outlined.

44.     The PPAF has well established criteria for selecting its POs, which will be followed by this
project as well. The POs are identified and selectedthrough transparent pre-selection criteria. The POs are
expected to share the same values as the PPAF and to have the capacity to implement community
projects. Under this project, the PPAF will enter into partnership with two groups of implementing
partners: community partner organizations and specialized partner organizations. Government agencies
cannot be POs of the PPAF under the terms described above. Instead, if a public organization (such as
PIMS or any other public organizatiodinstitution) i s chosento deliver services under the project, it would
be through a consultancy arrangement.

45.     Six partner organizations have been tentatively identified as likely partners for this project,
comprising of four existing POs (Islamic Relief, NRSP, SRSP, and Sungi) with whom the PPAF has on-
going partnership agreements in the 34 primarily targeted union councils and two disability and mental
health specialized partners (Handicap Internationaland PIMS). A tentative identification of partners has



                                                    12

been conducted to assess capacity and interest in contributing to this project and to ensure rapid
deployment of services once the project i s effective. Partnership agreements with the pre-identified POs
will be established based on desk reviews and field appraisals of proposals formulated by the POs
themselves.

C. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomedresults

46.      An elaborate Management Information System (MIS) has been developed for the PPAF's
housing reconstruction. The data entry i s conducted at the field level and the MIS allows monitoring of
various project implementation activities in real time. This MIS would be amended to include disability
activities and would be utilized for this project. Inaddition, one or more rigorous impact evaluations will
be conducted. A survey-based impact evaluation will focus on the overall impact of the project.
Complimentary impact evaluations will focus on specific interventions/treatments (such as psycho-social
counseling or physical rehabilitation) and will seek to assess their effectiveness, comparing key outcomes
(such as mental health status or improved physical mobility and everyday functioning) before and after
treatment.

D. Sustainability

47.      This project aims at securing sustainability through its partnership approach, exploiting synergies
with the community mobilization and local development efforts. Duringthe project implementation, the
PPAF and its implementingPOs will acquire considerable skills, knowledge, and awareness of disability
and CBR which will enable disability mainstreaming into a range of development activities. For example,
the PPAF will have competences in facilitating and advising potential partners on disability focused
projects and in supporting their implementation. POs will have knowledge of social mobilization
strategies on disability and how to stimulate and support disability initiatives at community level.
Moreover, the project will widen the circle of service providers and organizations working on disability.
All the involved organizations will be open to having PWDs as staff members. PWDs, their families and
communities will have been empowered and will have knowledge about and enhanced coping strategies
on disabilities. This being said, continuation of project activities once project financing has been used up
will require new sources of financing to be identified, either domestic (philanthropic or government
funds) or from foreign donors.

E. Critical risks and possiblecontroversialaspects

48.      This project aims to offer high-quality rehabilitation services in a manner that seeks to empower
    ...
the beneficiaries to take action on disability within a fixed budget and in an environment such as that of
rural Pakistan where currently few if any such services exist. This entails severalrisks:
         the quality and quantity of supply of medical andor rehabilitation services may be inadequate;
         the mobilization and empowerment activities may be slow to take on;
         demand for services may be lower than anticipated, and many of the intended beneficiaries may
   .
not utilize the services offered by the project (e.g., because of lack of knowledge, stigma, poverty, gender
issues); and
         the budget may be insufficient to meet the goals of the project.

49. ...  These risks will be mitigatedby:
         capacity buildingand technical supervision of service providers;
         outreach and support to community groups for empowerment and mobilization activities;
         following a CBR approach, conducting extensive community and household outreach to
         beneficiaries, and usinggender and culture sensitive approaches; and



                                                       13

         careful management of resources by the PPAF, by exploiting cost saving options without
         compromising quality (referrals primarily to free health providers; minimal procurement of
         vehicles, etc.).

50.      Another set of concerns relates to the administrative capacity of the PPAF and the POs. This
project representsan add-on to an already large portfolio. It i s also anew thematic area. The PPAFand its
POs are already stretched in their engagement in complex housing reconstruction. This concern will be
mitigated by strengthening the management and technical capacity of PPAF and its POs through the
training in Component 2. The close partnerships envisaged with HI, PIMS, and other specialist partners
are also designedto mitigate this concern.

51.      All earthquake reconstruction initiatives require ERRA endorsement. Although the project as
described i s in compliance with current ERRA policies, it cannot be ruled out that ERRA policies or
guidelines may be revised inthe course of the project implementation. This can entail the risk that project
components/activities may need re-adjustment to comply with ERRA recommendations. This risk will be
mitigated through close coordination with ERRA (social protection directorate) and its designated lead
coordinationbody for disability, the NMd.

52.      The risk rating for this project i s substantial (S). The overall project risk for procurement is
medium.

F. Loadcreditconditionsandcovenants

53.      There are no project specific effectiveness conditions. The proposed project complies with all
Bank procedures.


IV. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
A. Economic and financial analyses

54.      Not applicable.

B. Technical

55.      The technical design of the Project i s basedon a soundproject experience from Pakistan (with the
PPAF) and inbroad consultations with various stakeholders (includingHI,UNICEF, WHO, PIMS, NIHd,
ERRA, Ministry of Social Welfare and Special Education, local governments, DFID, disabled people's
organizations, POs, and especially the PPAF). The design and the consultation process aims for an all-
inclusive approach, spanning all types of disabilities. A combination of targeted outreach and service
delivery with a CBR and disability mainstreaming approach should ensure rapid and visible results and
longer term benefits for persons with disabilities and their families. However, the proposed constellation
of project features and partners has not been applied before inPakistan. This i s a pilot project intended to
test this approachfor its suitability for scaling up to eventually cover all of Pakistan.

C. Fiduciary

56.      The PPAF continues to maintain acceptable financial management and disbursement
arrangements. Though the specific activities of this project (Disability Grant) deviate from the traditional
PPAF core focus, the same set of financial management systems as applicable in PPAFI1would still be
appropriate for this project, while keeping in view the small size of the grant and the consistent style of



                                                       14

operations managed through the partner organizations. The grant funds shall be disbursed through the
pooledbank account already used for the Bank funds. The PPAFI1i s usinga `report-based disbursement'
method for accessing the Bank funds which shall continue to serve as the basis for withdrawal of grant
funds.

57.      PPAF's performance under the PPAF I1and earthquake-related credits and ability to implement
procurement aspects of the project are satisfactory. PPAFmaintains a close working relationshipwith the
Bank as well as its POs to ensurethat procurement is conducted inan efficient andtransparent manner.

D. Social

58.      The Bank team hadjoint field visits inboth AJK and NWFP and held exploratory meetings with
existing and new potential Partner Organizations. The field visits confirmed the need for this project. The
team met with a substantial number of persons with disabilities (PWDs) and their families and found a
large, urgent and unmet need for physical and mental rehabilitation of the PWDs in the affected areas.
The field visits made clear to the team the urgency of providing medical care and treatment, including
prosthetics and orthotics, and of providing psycho-social counseling to mitigate the impact of post-
traumatic stress syndrome disorder in a large number of people. Very few such services are currently
available. Highpriorities inthe short runwould include medical care and treatment of unattended medical
needs such as wounds, injuries and injury-relateddiseases as well as prosthetics, especially artificial legs,
to restore mobility and to reduce and mitigate the risk of longer term disability and impoverishment due
to disability and deteriorating health status caused by the disaster. Psycho-social counseling to mitigate
post traumatic stress syndrome disorders is also necessary to allow individuals and communities to
resume and restore social and economic livelihoods and to avoid the development of more severe mental
healthdisorders including depressionand mentalillness per se.

59.      Disability i s widely underreported by the population and therefore not easy to detect or measure.
There is evidence that disability of females i s especially underreported. In some villages, however, the
team was impressed by the vocal and open manner in which affected men, women, and children
expressed their need for mental health services to help them cope with grieflloss, depression, inability to
concentrate, and sleeping disorders. The teambelieves that provision of physical and mentalrehabilitation
services would, in itself, contribute to empower individuals and communities to restore the coping
capacity of affected individuals and communities to overcome the devastating impact of the disaster and
prevent further marginalization of the disabled persons, which is a more urgent priority under this project
than, for example, vocational skills training. However, optimal synergy with other projects aiming at
restoring employment and income generating activities in which PWDs can also participate should be
sought through establishing linkingand adequatereferral mechanisms.

60.      The teamconcluded that partnership with the POs of PPAFwould be desirable. The existing POs,
their community mobilization approach, and the COSthey have established would play a very useful role
for community outreach, awareness raising, and ensuring that the project objectives of inclusion,
participation and empowerment can be met usinga community-based rehabilitation approach. Inaddition,
there are important synergies between this project and other ongoing activities of the PPAF and its POs,
for example ensuring that reconstruction of housing, physical infrastructure, and livelihoods take into
account the special needs of the PWDs. Infact, PPAF POs are already in the process of increasing the
disability orientation of their social mobilization by sensitizing communities to involve the PWDs in
decision making and facilitating PWDs to take up offices in community organizations. The POs have
started training social organizers in sensitization of activists and CO office bearers and ensuring inclusion
of PWDs. Meetings were held with all the pre-identified potential POs on the objectives and design of
this projectandthe POsexpressedtheir interest inparticipating.



                                                       15

61.      The team also concluded that physical and mental rehabilitation services need to be of quality and
should only be provided and managedby competent specialized professionals. The team identified several
agencies that would appear to meet these criteria, offering specialist experience in prosthetics/orthotics,
management of the CBR, and post-earthquake mental health care. These agencies confirmed to the team
that they have the requisite skills, capacity and interest to expand their operations and provide services
neededby the project at short notice.

62.      The PPAFi s planning a comprehensive social assessment for its engagement in the earthquake-
affected areas, including disability. This assessment would include qualitative and quantitative elements.
Baseline data will be collected shortly. Supplemented by more detailed data collection (e.g., on treatment
effectiveness), this baseline will also serve for the planned impact evaluation. The baseline data on
disability would be designed to allow for assessment of disability status, causes of disability, and
impactkonsequences of disability, by age, gender, and other sub-groups.

E. Environment

63.      Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) i s not likely to be triggered by this project. However,
the PPAF already follows a comprehensive Environmental Management Framework approved by the
Bank.

F. Safeguard policies

64.      The safeguard Policy on Projects in Disputed Areas OP 7.60 will be triggered as the proposed
project will be carried out inAJK, an area over which India and Pakistan have been indispute since 1947.
By financing the proposed grant, the World Bank does not intendto make anyjudgment as to the legal or
other status of any disputed territory or to prejudicethe final determination of the parties' claims.

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                              Yes                     N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)                                                    [I                     [x 1
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [I                     [ XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     [ XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revisedas OP 4.11)                                   [I                     [ XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                    [I                     [ XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                                                          [I                     [ XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [I                       XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              [I                       XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OPBP 7.60)*                                                    [XI                    [I
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP 7.50)                                          [I                     [XI

G. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

65.      The project does not require any exceptions from Bank policies. The PPAF i s already well
established and active inthe earthquake-affected areas, as are the POs. The PPAFhas taken steps to begin
recruiting the staff needed for this project and draft the Operations Manual. The HI has also taken
preliminary recruitment steps. The project i s therefore ready to begin implementation upon project
effectiveness.



* By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputedareas



                                                             16

                         Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground
                               PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

World Bank and disabilityinPakistan
The World Bank inPakistan i s a long standing partner indisability and inclusive development. A variety
of initiatives at sector, policy, institutional and community level have been supported to stimulate the
national dialogue and action on disability. The World Bank collaborated with the Government of Pakistan
(GOP) in the launching of the National Policy and Action Plan for Persons with Disabilities, a key
document in providing direction to multi-sector and multi-disciplinary action on disability. The National
Policy identifies six broadpriorities inthe area of disability and inclusive development: (i)
                                                                                           preventionand
early detection of disability; (ii)medical rehabilitation and low cost technological aids; (iii) and
                                                                                              special
inclusive education; (iv) advocacy and public awareness; (v) creating a barrier free environment; and (vi)
employment and economic empowerment. The National Policy was formulated through a broad
consultation process that brought about recognition that scaling up and enhancing actions on disability
and achieving inclusive development for persons with disabilities can only be accomplished though
involvement of a range of actors including the disabled persons themselves, their organizations, public
institutions, public-private partnerships, and international and national non-government and civil society
organizations.

Other World Bank initiatives include preventive efforts, e.g., immunizatiodpolio eradiation, social safety
nets and a small grants program, which has been instrumental in enhancing civic engagement through
support to the disabled peoples' and other community-based organizations. Another initiative was the
Pakistan Development Marketplace which took place in March 2006 and was dedicated to promote
innovative community-based action on disability. Out of 220 proposals, 33 were selectedin a competitive
process. The winning projects cover a range of disability focused activities throughout the country: from
inclusive education to advocacy campaigns and the development of technical aids. The Development
Marketplace itselfplayed an advocacy role for the disabled people inPakistan.

The earthquake
The 7.6 magnitude earthquake that hit Pakistan on October 8, 2005 devastated one of the most remote
mountainous parts of the world and one of the poorest parts of Pakistan. According to the joint ADB-
World Bank Needs Assessment, approximately 73,000 people died and more than 70,000 have been
severely injuredor disabled. Many of the injured had amputated limbs or severe spinal cord injuries that
left them paralyzed. Preliminary estimates indicate a large population affected by post-traumatic stress
and trauma. Inaddition to those newly disabled because of the earthquake, persons already disabled have
sometimes lost their support systems and whatever services they were receivingprior to the earthquake.

The GOP and several donors are assisting earthquake-affected households, including those with
disabilities. The general assistance packagefor the earthquake-affected households includes assistance for
housing reconstruction, cash compensation for deatwinjury, and temporary cash transfers for income
support and livelihood recovery. Inaddition to cash transfers and housing, the disabled inthe earthquake-
affected areas need specialized immediate, but also long-term rehabilitation services, and skills
development and enhancement. Furthermore, taking into account the almost complete lack of know-how
of community-based rehabilitation and inclusion of persons with disabilities, a range of stakeholders,
includingcommunities, families and civil society organizations need capacity buildingthat would enable
them to address rehabilitation, access and inclusion issues for persons with disabilities on a long term
basis.

The magnitude of physical destruction, much bigger than initially estimated, has focused government's
reconstruction efforts on housing with the intent to reconstruct most of the houses and secure shelter for



                                                     17

the earthquake victims before winter. The reconstruction of housing has significantly stretched fairly
limited local capacity, thus causing other rehabilitation needs including those of the disabled people to
remain largely unaddressed. The field visits and discussions with communities have indicated that many
PWDS still need medical help; many more need physical rehabilitation, and almost all of those who
experienced the earthquake are in need of psycho-social assistance. However, there is a severe lack of
social services in the earthquake-affected areas, and as time goes on, fewer providers of services for the
PWDsremainactive.

Disability specific responseto the earthquake
Inresponseto the earthquake, the government has developed the National Strategy and Planof Action for
Vulnerable Populations inEarthquake-Affected Areas. More recently, the Earthquake Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Agency (ERRA)has approved its draft social protection strategy, one component of which
deals with the PWDs. The strategy envisages a community-based rehabilitation (CBR) approach as key in
assisting the PWDs. To that end, four resource and information centers for the PWDs that would anchor
the introduction and development of the CBR approach are planned to be established in the earthquake-
affected areas.

The World Bank and the Japanese Government are already supporting the ERRA strategy in the form of
two emergency Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) projects for disability4. The f r s t one,
Community-Based Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities Project (US$1,684,040), will establish the
four Resource and Information Centers in the earthquake-affected areas. The second, Promoting
Independent Living Amongst Persons with Disabilities Project (US$767,3 12), will establish four
independent living centers (operated by Milestone Society, a Disabled Peoples Organization, and co-
located in the Resource and Information Centers). In addition, some services for people with disabilities
and other vulnerable groups are being provided through the health care system, charitable organizations,
faith basedorganizations, Pakistani and internationalNGOs, and UNagencies.

The proposedproject vis-214s the country and sector background
The proposed project will be implemented within the frameworks of the National Strategy and Plan of
Action for Vulnerable Populations in Earthquake-affected Areas and the E m 's draft social protection
strategy.

It will provide much needed services to the PWDs, primarily in 34 union councils in the earthquake-
affected areas and to a lesser extent elsewhere. Inthis way, it will fill a small part of the large vacuum of
disability-related services in rural earthquake-affected areas thus contributing to Pakistan's long-term
objective of reducing poverty and vulnerability and improving welfare of its disadvantaged population,
including persons with disability (PWDs). It will also test a model for community-based service delivery
to and empowerment of persons with disabilities. As such, it will feed into the establishment of the
resource and information centers, providing valuable lessons learned. Ifsuccessful, the model could be
scaled up, thereby contributing to the integration of persons with disabilities into social end economic life
across the country.

The proposed project i s listed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)' and its objectives are in line
with the third CAS pillar of improving lives and protecting the vulnerable. The CAS recognizes the link
between illness/disability and poverty, proposes to continue and deepen the Bank's work on inclusive
education that seeks to mainstream disability in the education sector, and envisages support for disabled
persons inthe earthquake-affected areas (through this project).



 For further details see Annex 2.
 Pakistan: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) -Report No 35718, dated April 4,2006


                                                     18

            Annex 2: Major RelatedProjects Financedby the Bank andor other Agencies
                              PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

Earthquake Emergency recovery Credit ($400 million approved on December 5,2005)
This project supports Pakistan's emergency recovery efforts over a three year period, supporting GoP's
efforts to restore livelihoods, rebuild houses, purchase critical imports, and strengthen implementation
capacity. Components focus on housing ($220 million), livelihoodskash grants ($85 million), import
financing ($85 million), and capacity building ($10million). There i s also a contingency arrangement for
other sectors, including social protection, health, education, etc., whereby-if         financing gaps are
identified-IDA    funds can support these sectorsas well.

Second Poverty Alleviation Fund Project ($238 million approved on October 31, 2003 with $100
million additionalfinancing approvedon November 17,2005 PPAF 2)
This follow-on project aims to reduce poverty incidence through provision of resources and services to
the poor and low income, particularly women. This i s to be achieved through an integrated approach
including micro-credit, grants for small-scale infrastructure, training, and social sector interventions,
relying on community mobilization. The additional financing added a component to finance
rehabilitation, rebuilding, and construction of housing and village level infrastructure in the earthquake-
affected areas.
IPrating: S;DOrating: S

FirstPoverty Alleviation FundProject($90millionapprovedMay 1999closedon 12/31 2004)
Same objectivesas second PPAF project (see above)

Japan Social Development Fund Grant for Post Earthquake Community-Based Rehabilitation of
Persons with DisabilitiesProject ($1,684,040) (to be implemented by HandicapInternational; Grant
approved, becameeffective only recently)
The objectives of the project are: "(i) improving coverage and utilization of rehabilitation services and
solutions and quality of care and equity of access to rehabilitation services and solutions for persons with
disabilities through a community-based model; and (ii)    strengthening the capacity of community-based
organizations and district level stakeholders to effectively organize, plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate the delivery of rehabilitation services for persons with disabilities". The project will have four
components: (1) Establishment of Community-Based Rehabilitation Resource and Information Centers;
(2) Identificationand Capacity Buildingto CBR Workers; (3) Provision of CBR Services and Solutions to
Persons with Disabilities; and (4) Strengthening CBR Services Through Technical Assistance and Sub-
Grants to Community-based Organizations. The project has not yet been rated as it became effective only
very recently.

Japan Social Development FundPost-Earthquake Grant Promoting Independent Living Amongst
                                                               -
Persons with Disabilities Project, Grant Number TF056747 (US$767,312) (to Milestone Society,
effective since August 2006)
The objectives are to: "(i) innovative, nonresidential peer-based rehabilitation services for
                               provide
persons with disabilities in earthquake-affected areas of AJK and NWFP; (ii)          reform public policy
towards peer-based rehabilitation services for persons with disabilities; and (iii)  promote a barrier-free
physical and policy environment for persons with disabilities". The Project has four components: (1)
Establishment of Independent Living Centers; (2) Implementation of Independent Living Program; Peer
Counseling Program; and Attendant Service Training; (3) Outreach Program for Independent Living and
Barrier FreeEnvironment; and (4) Project Facilitation Office. The project was rated satisfactory inits first
rating (immediately after it becameeffective).




                                                     19

                              Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                              PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

ResultsFramework
               PDO                   Project OutcomeIndicators             UseofProjectOutcome
                                                                                  Information
To improvethe quality of life of       % of PWDsacknowledging     ~~   YR1: Baseline (from social
people with disabilities and their     an improvement inbasic          assessment)
families inareas affected by the       living conditions, mobility,    YR1-3: Agree on potential
October 8,2005 earthquake, by          mentalhealth, social            adjustment to Operations
ensuring better mobility,              inclusion and attitudes         Manual; determine if number and
improved physical and mental           towards PWDs;                   type of Partner Organizations and
health, increasedparticipationin       % improvement on mental         Disability Specialized Partners
social and economic life, and          healthscreeningtests before     needsto be changed
strengthenedempowerment.               and after psycho-social         YR2-3: Based on results, decide
                                       counseling;                     on scope and needfor scaling up,
                                       % of PWDs inproject areas       usingBank or other donor
                                       actively involved in            resources
                                       economic and social life        YR1-3: Based on lessonslearned,
                                       including education, training,  help informgovernment and
                                       employment, and                 NGO strategiesfor disability
                                       community-based activities;     YR3: Based on impact
                                                                       evaluation, helpinform
                                                                       disability/CBR/mental health
                                                                       strategiesinother countries


     Intermediate Outcomes              Intermediate Outcome            Useof Intermediate Outcome
                                   .
         By components                          Indicators                        Monitoring
Component 1
Initialidentificationand needs     .   % of households covered by      YR1: Low levels indicate needto
assessment carried out and             initial identificationand       speed upproject implementation
individual rehabilitationplans         needs assessment;
formulated for all PWDs inthe          % of identified PWDs that
                                   .
project area                           have an agreedrehabilitation
                                       plan, by gender;
Rehabilitation plans are followed      Rehabilitative services         YR1-YR3: Low levels indicate
up through provision of                provided by number, type,       needto adjust project priorities
rehabilitative services as agreed      service provider, and gender;
on and called for, including       .   % of individualrehabilitation
medical and psychological              plans completed.
                                   .
rehabilitation and provision of
aids.
PWDs and their families                % of identified PWDs in         YR1-YR3: Low levels indicate
zmpowered and participate in           project areas participating in need to enhance outreach
community events aiming at             relevant events by type of
mobilization, awareness, and           event and gender;
zmpowerment for action on              number and % of PWDs
disability.                            active incommunity
                                       organizations.



                                                   20

All services under the project are    .    Reports from 3'' party         YR1-YR3: Quality issueflags
                                           ~~




of hightechnical and                        evaluators and technical      indicate need to enhancequality
professional quality                  .     partners; and                 assurance
                                            Level of expressed
                                             satisfaction with services
                                            providedcomplaints from
                                            target groups, by gender.
Component 2
Staff and management involved         .     Numberof staff trainedby      YR1-3: Needto update training
inprojectactivitieshave                      gender and type of training. plans
adequate skills
Component 3
Project management i s                .     Project activities            YR1-3: Appropriate follow-up to
satisfactory                                 implemented according to an  be taken
                                             agreed schedule;
                                      .     Fiduciary requirements are
                                             adheredto; and
                                             MISsystemcaptures
                                             disability specific
                                             information inadequate
                                             detail.


Arrangements for resultsmonitoring

An elaborate Management Information System (MIS) has been developed for the other activities of
the PPAF. The data base captures key information on all 105,000 households in the 34 PPAF union
councils. Data i s entered at field level by the social mobilization teams (SMTs), and collated at regional,
PO, and PPAF levels. The system affords the PPAF and the POs' management real-time information on
project progress, total and by subgroups. Based on this information, the PPAF management takes
appropriate corrective actions and files reports with ERRA. The data base and data collection system will
be amended to include disability activities and will be utilized for the management of this project. Costs
for this are expected to be modest.

In addition hereto, PPAF also collects survey-based information, and a baseline survey to assess living
conditions of a sample of intended beneficiaries is planned to go to the field shortly, and before the
project becomes effective. This baseline will be followed up by ex-post surveys to assess project impacts,
as explained further below.

      .
As a pilot project, rigorous impact and process evaluation will be conducted with external technical
assistance. It will have several elements:
          Overall impact on individuals and households: survey based impact evaluation will be
          conducted at the end of the project focusing on the overall impact, comparing ex-post outcomes
          to the baseline data. This will assess the impact on the quality of life and empowerment of
          individuals and households using quantitative and qualitative techniques, and with statistical
          validity.
          Intervention-based evaluation will focus on specific interventiondtreatments (such as psycho-
          social counseling, physical rehabilitation, or empowerment) and will seek to assess their
          effectiveness, comparing key outcomes (such as mental health status, improved physical
          mobility, everyday functioning, and inclusion in economic and social life) before and after the
          project.



                                                         21

9 Pilot replicability. I s this a successful model to be replicated? The answer to this question will
  be sought through an assessment of processes, activities, organization, costs, and benefits.




                                              22


                                  Annex 4: Detailed ProjectDescription
                              PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

Executing agency: The proposed project would be executed by the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
(PPAF). The PPAF i s an apex funding agency for civil society (similar to a Social Fund). The PPAF
funds and supervises local community driven development projects implemented by its Partner
Organizations, basedon proposals submitted by them (see Annex 6).

Geographical coverage: The project will primarily be implemented in 34 union councils (UCs) in the
earthquake-affected area: 18 inNWFP and 16 inAJK. The total number of union councils affected by the
earthquake i s 242. The 34 UCs selected as the primary project area are the UCs in which the Pakistan
Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) i s carrying out reconstruction and rehabilitation of physical
infrastructure on behalf of the government and has established, jointly with its partner organizations, an
extensive network of community mobilization teams. These 34 UCs are among the worst affected by the
earthquake and include, for instance, the city of Balakot in the North West Frontier Province, which was
razed to the ground. Some project activities will be implemented jointly with ERRA-CMU and will
support all affected UCs: the activities that will be undertaken in all earthquake areas include assistive
devices for the PWDs; awareness raising; training of disability social workers; and sharing with ERRA of
training materials andinternational technical advisor.

Targeted population: Comprehensive, precise, and validated data on prevalence and incidence of
disability and mental health issues in the earthquake-affected areas do not exist. However, the PPAFand
its partner organizations have collected information on all households in their areas of responsibility (the
34 UCs) and compiled the best currently available source of information (see Table 2).

                               Table2: Populationand PwDsinprojectareas
                         Total population:                                   471,254
                         Total number of houseshouseholds:                     86,945
                         Casualties:                                            7,842
                         Most vulnerable (widows, elderly, orphans,             4,902
                         or disabled without support):
                         Disabled (incidence of physical disabilities):         7,742

                         Of which disabled adults:                              4,398
                         Disabledchildren                                       3,344
                        Source:PPAF

In all likelihood these figures underestimate the number of persons with disabilities (PWDs) in the 34
PPAF UCs. The reasons are the following: (a) no attempt was made to estimate the incidence of mental
disabilities, learning disorders, and mental health issues. However, field visits and meetings with
communities indicate that most of the population exhibits some signs of post-traumatic stress and
disorders and needs professional help; (b) many physical disabilities, especially relatively minor ones, are
likely to go unreported, as people do not think of them as `disabilities'; (c) some families may be reluctant
to report disabilities among its female members as the ratio of reported male to female disability i s 1.44,
and most likely reflects underreporting of the cases of female disabilities. For these reasons, the size of
the target group for the project cannot be known with precision until a comprehensive identification and
needs assessment of the PWDs that i s planned for the very beginning of this project implementation have
been carried out.




                                                     24

Main approach: This project objective i s to improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and
mental health issues and their families in the earthquake-affected areas. In meeting this objective the
project will seek to engage all persons with disabilities or mental health issues in its target area, both
women and men, and regardless of whether the disability was acquired before, during, or after the
earthquake.6 The project will employ a community-based rehabilitation (CBR) approach combined with
provision of services through referral to specialized service providers (institutions).' The main actors
involved in the CBR interventions would typically include: (a) people with disabilities and their families
and communities; (b) disabled people's organizations; (c) local and regional governments; (d)
community-based groups and organizations, non-government organizations, and civil society groups, and
(e) medical and other professionals. The CBR approach comprises a wide range of activities beyond
medical care and rehabilitation such as: (i)        promoting positive attitudes towards people with disabilities;
(ii) disability prevention; (iii)    facilitating education and training opportunities; (iv) removing barriers for
participation and inclusion; (v) supporting micro and macro income-generating opportunities; (vi)
mobilizing the PWDs, their families and communities for action on disability; (vii) service provision, and
(viii) monitoring and evaluation.

Sustainability: The CBR approach with its grass root character, flexible framework and wealth of actors,
organizational forms and programs has strong sustainability potential in a resource and knowledge
constrained environment such as the one in Pakistan, particularly areas affected by the earthquake. The
sustainability of the CBR interventions to be employed under this project will depend on: (i)                 the project's
success in empowering targeted PWDs, their families and communities and community organizations to
take action on disability; (ii)      the degree to which these actors have acquired and adopted methods and
tools for the CBR approaches to meet the needs of disabled persons; (iii)                  the availability of continued
commitment and capacity of participating partner organizations in supporting the CBR initiatives; (iv) the
availability of referral institutions for medical and rehabilitation services; (v) the extent to which a
disability enabling (less discriminatory) environment has been achieved; (vi) the degree to which the
PWDs make use of rehabilitation efforts (e.g., improved health, mobility, access) obtained through
services delivered under the project; and (vii) the degree to which the PWDs are working as professionals
and volunteers indevelopment and disability related activities.

Project components

The project consists of three components (i)          provision of services for people with disabilities and mental
health issues and their families, (ii)     capacity buildingfor service providers and civil society organizations,
and (iii)project management, monitoring, and evaluation. Some funds are also set aside for
contingencies(see Annex 5).




  The most commonly used definitions of disability are (1) the International Functional Classification in which
disability i s defined as "the outcome or result o f a complex relationship between an individual's health condition and
personal factors, and of the external factors that represent the circumstances in which the individuals live.
Impairments are defined as problems in body function or structure such as significant deviation or loss."; an earlier
WHO definition i s also sometimes used: "Impairment: Any loss of abnormality of psychological, physiological, or
anatomical structure or function; Disability: Any restriction or lack (resulting from an impairment) of ability to
perform an activity in the manner or within the range considered normal for a human being; Handicap: A
disadvantage for a given individual, resulting from an impairment or disability, that, limits or prevents the
fulfillment o f a role that i s normal, depending on age, sex, social and cultural factors, for that individual."
  25 years ago, considering the great need and limited resources, WHO introduced a new approach in providing
rehabilitation services known as Community-based Rehabilitation; today CBR i s being implemented in more than
90 countries and has evolved into an effective comprehensive multi-sectoral strategy in creating access to health
care, education, livelihood opportunities and participationlinclusion.


                                                            25

Component 1:Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment (US$3.9 million)

The objective of this component i s to ensure delivery of a range of services addressing disability and
mental health-related needs of PWDs and their families while at the same time mobilizing and
empowering them to take action on disability. The component will ensure service delivery, mobilization
and empowerment through a two pronged strategy, comprising (a) community-based rehabilitation and
(b) rehabilitationthrough areferralto specialized service providers(institutions).

Community-based rehabilitation will target the PWDs, their families, and communities through social
mobilization and other community-based activities aimed at raising awareness and knowledge regarding
disability and inducingand stimulating the demandfor disability focused services. This component will in
particular aim at empowering the disabled to claim and identify ways and means of meeting their needs
for rehabilitation and ensure full participation in social and economic life. It will also support initiatives
aimed at fostering a more disability conducive and enabling environment, through anti-discriminatory,
anti-stigma, and disability mainstreaming activities. In addition to enabling/empowerment/inclusion
initiatives, the CBR approach aims at arranging for the provision of basic disability rehabilitative services
at the community level provided by professionals, trained community organizers, and volunteers,
includingthe PWDsthemselves.

The CBR activities under this project will be carried out by a network of already functioning community
mobilization teams-strengthened by two disability community workers per union council and will feed
into (and benefit from) the CBR activities emanating from the four planned Resource and Information
Centers (partially funded by the Japanese Social Development Fund Grant), once these centers become
operational. These centers are planned to operate in Mansehra, Besham, Muzaffarabad, and Bagh. The
centers are planning a full menu of the CBR activities, including: identification and registration of the
PWDs, existing services and stakeholders; dissemination of information on existing services to the PWDs
and their families; networking, coordinating and liaising with existing mainstream and specific
stakeholders; lobbying local governments to ensure inclusion; workshops, seminars and training in
disability issues; technical assistanceto Community Workers, the PWDs and their families; encouraging
the PWDs to participate in community committees; awareness raising events; sub-grants for poverty
alleviation activities for the PWDs; etc. Independent living training* offered by Milestone (and supported
under a JSDF grant) will also be located at these centers. It i s expected that at the end of the project, the
CBR activities initiated and funded by the project will continue firmly anchored in and supported by the
respective centers.

Specialized institutions based rehabilitation services will be provided by specialized service
providers/institutions by referringbringing the PWDs to those institutions and/or through arranging for
those institutions to deliver outreach services to the PWDs. To the extent possible, the services will be
provided locally, relying on providers already active in the earthquake-affected areas. The services will
include medical treatment, physical rehabilitation, provision of prosthetics and other aids, psycho-social
counseling, and other specialized services. For example:

     .
     a   Medical treatment (over and above the services offered by local clinics and practitioners) will be
         providedmostly by major hospitals inside and outside the area.
         Physical rehabilitation i s expected to be mainly provided by the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic
         and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS), a government institution located in Peshawar. PIPOS runs 5
         rehabilitation centers in the earthquake areas (4 in the NWFP: Mansehra, Balakot, Batagram,


 Independent Living means training in skills pertaining to mobility, self-reliance, self-management o f personal
health, hygiene, and grooming, toileting, and socialization.


                                                          26

        Besham and 1 in AJK: Bagh). Each of these centers provides rehabilitation services which
        include productiodfittinghaintenance of state of the art prosthetic and orthotics devices and
        physiotherapy. The annual capacity of each center i s 800 patients in physical therapy; 500
        prosthetic and orthotics devices procured and maintained; and 2,000 treatment sessions.
        Rehabilitation services are provided free of cost for all patients. Handicap International (HI)
    .   supports PIPOS with technical assistance, training, quality assurance, and management
        systedmanagementtraining.g
        Mental health services are almost non-existent inthe project areas and will therefore be procured
        especially by the project. Qualified providers will be invited to submit bids for such services, on a
        consultancy basis. The Operations Manual will specify the quality standards against which bids
        will be evaluated. Already, the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Psychiatry
    .   Department, has indicated its interest in providing and training special teams of mental health
        counselors. Assistance from the WHO will also be sought.
        Special and difficult cases that cannot be treated locally will be referred to relevant tertiary
        institutions, including among others the National Institute of the Handicapped (NIHd). Whenever
        possible, institutions that offer services providedfree of charge would be preferred.

The key activitiesunder this component will comprise:

(i) Identification of people with disabilities and needs assessment. The starting point for the
assessment will be initial data already collected by the PPAFon households with disabled members inthe
34 union councils". As already mentioned, this initial data i s incomplete. A detailed identification and
needs assessment i s therefore required and will be carried out at the start of the project to complete (in
coverage, scope, and level of detail) the initial data. A standard method for identification and needs
assessment will be used (to be provided by the Handicap International). This information will be entered
into the MIS of the PPAF and partner organizations and be used to track cases. The identification and
needs assessment will be conducted by trained disability social workers in collaboration with specialized
partners. Details on needs assessment to follow from HI

(ii) Formulationandrealizationof individual rehabilitationplans.Basedontheneedsassessment,
individual rehabilitation plans will be formulated by disability social workers and the PWDs, under the
guidance and backing of professional staff from the HI. These plans would comprise strategies for the
provision of short and long-term services for all types of disabilities and mental health needs such as
health care, physical rehabilitation (for instance, basic physiotherapy, occupational therapy, provision of
assistive devices"), training in independent living, psycho-social counseling, and treatment of mental
disorders. Priority will be given to activities that support, ease and enhance the capability of the PWDs to
perform daily household chores and/or occupation-related tasks, thus improving the quality of life,
welfare and livelihood of the disabled and their families. The services could also comprise the
organization of workshops addressing specific needs, for instance those related to sensory impairment
such as blindness and deafness. The services under the individual rehabilitation plans will be provided by
specialized institutions (delivered preferably through outreach), as well as trained community organizers,
community-based organizations, trained volunteers, etc. As already mentioned, a special effort will be
made to procure mental health services (see below). As the project implementation progresses and
community-based rehabilitation services develop, it i s expected that a considerable part of the services
will be provided through a community-based approach. A small grant facility for the CBR will help
stimulate the growth of groups/organizations active in the CBR. The implementation of individual
rehabilitation plans will be monitored by respective disability social workers.


 HIhasreceivedexternalfunding for this projectfor aduration of 3 years from 2006-2008.
loThe data were collected as part of a housing damage assessment undertakenby PPAF,completedinJune 2006
l1As mentioned, assistivedevices for the PwDs cancover all earthquakeareas incoordination with ERRA.


                                                       27

Taking into account the time frame and resources available to the project, individual cases will be
prioritized for service delivery by urgency of need as assessedby trained professionals.

(iii) Mappingandcapacityassessmentof serviceproviderstoreceivereferrals (onlyif necessary).A
mapping and capacity assessment exercise will be undertaken by the PPAF together with its disability
specialized partners to identify institutions currently providing physical and mental rehabilitation that
would have capacity to receive referrals of the targeted PWDs and provide good quality services. Starting
from already available lists of facilities and institutions, the mapping would serve to identify potential
collaborating institutions. The ensuing capacity assessment would be a brief screening of these
institutions to rapidly assess their capacity and quality of services and determine relevance to the project.
The capacity assessment would also serve: (a) as a basis for setting quality standards (see below); (b) for
planning capacity enhancement and training of these services providers (see Component 2); and (c) in a
limited number of cases, to assist with procurement of essential drugs or equipment.

(iv)     Monitoring the quality of rehabilitation services. The PPAF, with inputs from specialized
partners and international organizations, will define (in the Operations Manual) the standards for
rehabilitation services for identified partners and service providers and ensure that services provided
under the project are adequate and of high technical quality. In addition, the PPAF will perform overall
monitoring and will arrangethirdparty assessments of the services and activities under this component.

(v)      Information, education and communication (IEC). Community-based IEC would comprise a
broad range of activities aimed at improving the livelihood and integration of the PWDs into community
life, for example, establishment of thematiclself-help groups; promotion of self-esteem or independent
living; promotionof school enrollment of disabled children; awareness and anti-discrimination campaigns
targeting schools, elders, women's groups, midwifes, and others. The IEC activities should enhance
coping strategies of the PWDs, their families and communities by improving knowledge, understanding
and behavior in relation to various types of disabilities and will be carried out by the HI, POs, and other
community-based organizations, based on proposals submitted to and reviewed by the PPAF. Some of the
awareness raising activities will be for the entire earthquakeaffected areas and will be canied out together
with E m - C M U .

The key actors

The PPAF, its partner organizations (POs), disability specialized partners (DSPs) and a number of
community-based service providers and activity organizers will be involved in the implementation of this
component with the following responsibilities and roles:

     1. PPAF as the project executing agency will be responsible for ensuring that the project is
         implemented successfully and its development objectives are accomplished. The PPAF will select
         the POs and DSPs that would carry out the project activities. The PPAFwill perform supervision,
         monitoring, and evaluation.

     2. Partner Organizations (POs) will be selected based on the quality of their proposals as per
         PPAF guidelines. Their tasks will be to: (i)   mobilize the communities in 34 union councils for
         action on disability issues through existing social mobilization teams (SMTs); (ii)     recruit two
         disability social workers per Union Council (one female, one male) and provide for their training
         in disability issues in coordination with disability specialized partners; (iii)conduct the
         identification and needs assessment in collaboration with the DSPs; (iv) develop individual
         rehabilitation plans; (v) carry out disability-related awareness raising activities; (vi) ensure
         participation of community organizations, households and the PWDs in launching disability


                                                      28

        services and activities; and (vii) support, supervise, register and monitor the PWDs and their
        families participation inproject activities.

        Particular attention will be paid to recruit PWDs, females, and local people in project positions.
        The disability social workers will report to the existing field-level supervisory structure of the
        POs. For top-level management, each PO may recruit one-two disability managers (depending on
        the work load of eachPO).

    3. Disability Specialized Partners-DSPs (Handicap International, Pakistan Institute for Medical
        Science, and others to be identified) will: (i)carry out capacity and skills development of the POs
        and the PWDs and their families; (ii)       assist the POs in planning and conducting the initial
        identification and needs assessment; (iii)     assist the POs and their community organizers in
        developing individual rehabilitation plans and monitor their implementation from the technical
        point of view; (iv) map institutions for referral of the PWDs for treatment and rehabilitation; (v)
        provide, if required, capacity training to institutions mapped for service referrals; (vi) establish a
        mechanism for referral of the PWDs to the institutions including services which will be provided
        as community outreach services; (vii) assist in defining the standards of services and ensure their
        compliance; (viii) support the supervision and monitoring of service delivery at community and
        specialized institutions level.

    The roles of the disability specialized partners will not be identical. Handicap International (HI)will
    cover the entire range of community-based rehabilitation (CBR) activities, including social
    mobilization, empowerment, provision of prosthetics and orthotics and related physical and psycho-
    social rehabilitation, and similar. One or more specialized mental health service providers, for
    instance PIMS, will be drawn into the project to provide technical backing and cover the mental
    health activities of the project thus building additional professional capacity in this area. Other
    disability specialized partners will be identified as needed, including one or more third party
    supervisors of the technical quality of services (for example, the WHO or UNICEF).

    The disability specialized partners will needto recruit and deploy additional staff for this project:
        .    The HIwould recruit one senior technical advisor (international), based in Islamabad, and
             two technical advisors (also international) based in the AJK and NWFP, respectively. If
        .    needed, these staff would be complemented by local assistants and junior stafflvolunteers.
             The HImay also needto recruit short term staff for institutional mappingand other functions.
             The mental health partners would deploy about six teams of psycho-social counselors. Each
             team i s to comprise one supervisor (a psychiatric trainee) and three counselors (with Master
             degrees in psychology, social work, or similar and previous experience in counseling to the
             extent possible). All teams will include both men and women. Up to two project managers
             may also be needed.

    4. Community-based service providers: Existing and newly established community-based groups
        and organizations and local non-government and civil society organizations will be essential in
        designing, organizing and carrying out health and non-health related rehabilitation services and
        activities at the community level. Those organizations will be invited to submit their proposals to
        the PPAF. The PPAF would evaluate the proposals and award small grants against deliverables
        for those who qualify for financing. The skills, competences and awareness acquired by
        communities through active participation in rehabilitation activities would be essential in
        empowering the PWDs to be fully enjoying and contributing members of society.

Some organizations have already indicated their interest in collaborating on the CBR activities in the
earthquake-affected areas:


                                                     29

Note: The table shows organizations currently working in the affected areas and who are interested in partnership
with the HI to build their capacity for working with the PWDs. More organizations may emerge during
implementation.


Component2: Capacity buildingfor disability rehabilitation (US$0.45 million)

The objective of this component i s to buildthe capacity of the PPAF, its partner organizations, as well as
service providers and civil society organizations to ensure rehabilitation services to the PWDs and their
families. Capacity buildinghkillsdevelopment is required since neither the PPAF, nor its implementing
POs have competences and previous experience in disability work. Training on all aspects of disability
work will be deljvered by Handicap International and others. Training will be tailored to meet the needs
of the PWDs, their families and communities as identified inthe needs assessment. The capacity-building
training will target different stakeholdersas follows:

Sensitizationof Project and PO management:
To ensure commitment and shared understanding of project objectives and design, the PPAF's general
management, the PPAF's Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Unit staff, and the POs' management will be
provided with a half-day disability sensitization course. In addition, a two weeks disability course for
direct (operational) managerdcore staff of the PPAF and its partners will be conducted at the project start.
The course will provide skills in preparing for and launching disability oriented project activities, and
introducing a community-based rehabilitation (CBR) approach. Participants will understand the various
categories of challenges facing persons with disabilities and how project activities can help the PWDs
overcome those challenges. After completing the course, participants will be able to initiate and supervise
community-based rehabilitation schemes, establish the CBR action plans, and undertake monitoring and
evaluation of the CBR.

Training of disability social workers:
A standard training course of 2 weeks in identification and needs assessment of all types of disabilities
will be conducted at the project launch targeting disability social workers to be recruited to reinforce
already operating social mobilization teams of the PPAF's POs. Following the needs assessment, a
general disability/CBR training course of three months will be provided over a period of 12months, using
interval training so as to allow project implementation to proceed. The training will be provided by
Handicap International (through its technical advisors who will act as master trainers). Based on
international standards for the CBR workers, the training will build competences in disability awareness
and basic rehabilitation skills. The disability social workers will learn to assist the PWDs and their




                                                     30

    .
families in ways that make observable changes in their lives. More specifically, after having completed
    ........
the course the participants are expected to be able to:
            Describe the signs, causes and at least five basic therapy techniques for sevenkinds of disabilities
            Provide basic rehabilitation services for all types of impairments
            Identify conditions related to mentaldistress and mentaldisorder and advising onreferral
            Train family members and others to provide basic assistanceto disabled people
            Refer disabledpeople to relevant specialized services
            Facilitateinclusionof disabled people into development activities, motivate other people intheir
            organizations andcommunities to include persons with disabilities
            Identify priority target groups for social communication and demonstrate a variety of social
            communication methods
            Identify the advantagesand disadvantages of networks and develop a plan for a local CBR
            network intheir local area
            Train others inbasic awareness about disability issues, identificationof disability and social
            communication
            Demonstrate the use of implementationguidelines indeveloping a back home action plan.
Some of this training will also benefit disability social workers recruitedby the ERRA-CMU.

Capacity building of specialized serviceproviders (institutions):
Handicap International will strengthen its ongoing collaboration with the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic
and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS) inproviding quality assurance training to the Institute and its 5 prosthetic
centers established in the NWFP and AJK. The training would ensure that international best practice is
followed in terms of comprehensive rehabilitation programs, including prosthetics adaptation, follow-up,
and physiotherapy training.

The Pakistan Institute for Medical Sciences (PIMS) is expected to be the main partner responsible for
training of the mental health service providers. Mental healthcapacity training will ensurethat institutions
and mobile teams have adequate competences in diagnosis of mental disorders including testing of adults
and children for mental impairment and in service delivery inpsycho-social counseling and treatment of
mental disorders. Training will especially target the community mental health teams to be deployed under
this project, butother interested service providers may benefit as well. Teams will betrainedinproviding
psycho-social counseling and undertaking community mental health services such as identification,
diagnosis and treatment of a range of mental disorders including post-traumatic stress, severe depression,
and schizophrenia. Training will be provided by core permanent staff from the Psychiatry Department of
the PIMS andor other reputedhospitals, with inputs from reputed internationalcollaborators.

A broadly composedtraining programwill be conducted comprising:
    ..      Refresher courses for staff recently trained and with prior experience inpsycho-social counseling.

    ..      This training will berepeatedwith athree monthinterval.
            All staff to be deployed will be trained for one week in the child psychiatric services unit in
            Lahore.
            For capacity buildingof institutional service providers such as general practitioners and medical
            staff, a four weeks training programwill be.
            For Lady Health Workers and other health professionals, a two week attachment and training
            schedule will be offered.

Support to community-basedorganizationsfor proposal writing:
The PPAF will offer support and training as needed for the POs, DSPs, and other community-based
organizations to prepare grants proposals for the financing of disability oriented initiatives in the
communities.



                                                          31

Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$0.4 million)

This component will finance the project management and support functions undertaken by the PPAF. A
disability team with 3-5 staff members would be established within the PPAF. The disability team would
initially form part of the PPAF's Relief and Reconstruction Unit and would consist of one team
leader/manager, two disability managers for NWFP and AJK, respectively, and up to two Junior
Professionals. The disability team would supervise all aspects of the project's implementation. It would
also prepare an Operations Manual. Following discussions with ERRA-CMU, it has been agreed to
minimize the use of international consultants for this project; to the extent that international consultants
will be used, their TORSwould be developedjointly by PPAFand ERRA-CMU and they would be based
at ERRA-CMU.

The PPAF would also undertake its standard functions such as proposal reviews, activity supervision,
procurement, financial management, and reporting. An elaborate Management Information System (MIS)
has been developed for the PPAF's housing reconstruction. The data base captures key information on all
105,000 households in the 34 PPAF union councils. Data i s entered at field level by the social
mobilization teams (SMTs). Data i s collated at regional, POs, and PPAF levels. The system affords the
PPAFand the POs' managementreal-time information on project progress, total and by any number of
subgroups. The data base and data collection system can easily be amendedto include disability activities
and would be utilized for this project.

Inorder to ensurethat beneficiaries themselvesparticipate inproject monitoring, two advisory councils
(one in each of AJK and NWFP) comprising PWDs will be established. The councils will monitor the
implementationof the project activities and advise the PPAFon potential improvements.

As a pilot project, rigorous impact and process evaluation will be conducted with external technical
assistance. It will have several elements:
         Overall impact on individuals and households: survey based impact evaluation will be
         conducted at the end of the project focusing on the overall impact, comparing ex-post outcomes
         to the baseline data. This will assess the impact on the quality of life and empowerment of
         individuals and households using quantitative and qualitative techniques, and with statistical
         validity.
         Intervention-based evaluation will focus on specific interventions/treatments (such as psycho-
         social counseling, physical rehabilitation, or empowerment) and will seek to assess their
     .   effectiveness, comparing key outcomes (such as mental healthstatus, improved physical mobility,
         everyday functioning, and inclusionineconomic and social life) before and after the project.
         Pilot replicability. I s this a successfulmodel to be replicated? The answer to this question will be
         sought through an assessment of processes, activities, organization, costs, and benefits.




                                                     32

                                          Annex 5: Project Costs
                             PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY



  Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                                                Total
                                                                                        US$million
  Component 1: Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment                         3.9
  Component 2: Capacity buildingfor service providers andcivil society organizations        0.45
  Component 3. Project management, monitoring, and evaluation                               0.4




  Total Baseline Cost                                                                       4.75
    PhysicalContingencies                                                                   0.15
    PriceContingencies                                                                      0.1
                                                                  Total Project Costs'      5.0
                                                            Interest during construction
                                                                         Front-endFee
                                                            Total FinancingRequired         5.0


1
Identifiabletaxes andduties are US$m-, and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s US$m-.
Therefore, the share of project cost net of taxes i s -9%.




                                                        33

                                 Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                               PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

The Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) has extensive experience and an excellent track record of
implementingBank-funded projects, which this project would draw upon. Existing modalities, structures,
arrangements, and systems will be utilized to the largest extent possible. Thus, the (PPAF), acting as an
apex agency, will engage partner organizations (POs) to implement the project. POs will be selected
basedontheir merit and the strength of their proposals as per PPAFstandardprocedures. The POs will be
responsible for implementing project activities under the various components and for reporting progress
to the PPAF, as well as providing all requiredproject data to the PPAFfor monitoring and evaluation.

6.1 The PakistanPovertyAlleviationFund

The PPAF was established inFebruary 1997 as a non-profit public company limited by guarantee, under
Section 42 of the Companies Ordinance, 1984. It was established with the objective of "helping the poor,
landless and asset less to enable them to undertake activities of income generation and poverty alleviation
and for enhancing their quality of life" (the PPAF's Memorandum of Association). Since its
establishment, the PPAF, together with a variety of partner organization, has been active in project
implementation in 60,000 communities throughout Pakistan (supported by two IDA credits). In the
earthquake-affected area, the PPAF has been mandated by the Government of Pakistan to implement
reconstruction and rehabilitation interventions in 34 union councils (supported by an IDA additional
financing to the secondPPAF credit).

Governance structure
PPAF's governance structure, as articulated by its Articles of Association, assures an independent, non-
political organization that has the potential to be efficiently and transparently managed. The Articles
prescribe a three-tier governance structure, comprising a General Body, a Board of Directors (including
an executive Body of the Board) and Management Team headed by a Chief Executive Officer (CEO).
The PPAF was initially sponsored by the government. Inconsultation with civil society, the government
chose the initial General Body and Board members, who are nationally well respected professionals of
integrity. All policy and operational decision making rests fully with the PPAF's Board and General
Body, with no requirement of approvals by the government. The PPAF has full authority to enter into
contracts, recruit staff on a competitive basis, and establish its own personnel and operating policies and
procedures, including procurement and disbursement.

Eligibility criteriafor partner organizations
The PPAF has well-established criteria for selecting the POs, as described in the Project Appraisal
Document for the Bank's second Poverty Alleviation FundProject (Report No. 27176). Those procedures
will be followed by this project as well. The POs are identified and selected through transparent pre-
selection criteria. They are expected to share the same values as the PPAF, and have the capacity to
implement community projects. Selection of the POs i s an on-going process, where new ones are
regularly added and others excluded based on their performance. New POs could also be pro-actively
solicited to expand the PPAF's outreach over time. The POs which satisfy, and continue to satisfy, the
eligibility criteria are eligible for funding. The criteria include the following requirements. The POs
    ..
should:

         be registeredunder the laws of Pakistan;
         have a proven track record of at least two years in community, health or social sector
         development;




                                                     34

        be involved in participatory development at the grass root level, would have a well-developed
        strategy and work plan and the capacity to expand their outreach;
        have a proper and transparent accounting system;
        be willing and able to submit regular monitoring reports to the PPAFand to submit to the PPAF's
        supervision;
        be willing to maintain all relevant records, documents and information in respect of financing
        received from the PPAF and to furnishthese to the PPAF;
        conduct audits in accordance with the laws under which they are registered, with audit scope
        acceptable to the PPAF, and be willing and able to accept mandatory external audits by firms of
        chartered accountantsappointed by the PPAF;
        be financially sustainable or on the path to sustainability, as judged in the light of a realistic
        businessplan and progressmadeby them towards achieving self-sufficiency; and
        not be political, discriminatory, ethnic, sectarianor exclusive innature.

Arrangementsfor management of thisproject
The core management team for this project will be headedby the Head of the PPAF's Reconstruction &
Rehabilitation (R&R) Unit. A disability team with 3-5 staff members would be established within the
R&R Unit and would consist of one team leaderhanager, two disability managers for NWFP and AJK,
respectively, and up to two junior professionals. The disability team would supervise all aspects of the
project's implementation. It would also prepare the Operations Manual. All staff will be hired through an
open merit-based competitive process from the market, with hiringand firing powers ultimately vested on
the Board of Directors of the PPAF.

The operating policies and procedures will be outlined in the Operations Manual. The Manual will be
finalized inconsultation with key stakeholders, including possible beneficiaries of the PPAF support. The
manual will cover ProgramOperations; HumanResourcesDevelopment; and Procurement and Financial
Management. In addition, it will outline details on the PPAF's management, governance and programs
including: eligibility criteria for the POs, appraisal process, procurement procedures, disbursement and
flow of fund procedures; reporting, monitoring and evaluation procedures; audit arrangements. The
Operations Manual will be vetted by IDA.

6.2 Implementing partner organizations

Under this project, the PPAF will enter into partnership with two groups of implementing partners:
community partner organizations and specialized partner organizations. The partnership terms, however,
are the same for both (with the exception of government agencieshervice providers) and follow the
PPAF's well-established terms, as described for example in the Project Appraisal Document for the
Bank's secondPoverty Alleviation FundProject (Report No. 27176) and also listed in Appendix 9 of this
document.

Terms of Partnership between the PPAF and Partner Organizations that meet the eligibility criteria
(summary)

Eacheligible PO would enter into a written "PO FinancingAgreement' with the PPAFthat would include
    ..
the following main elements:

        The PO will performall its obligations under the Partnership Agreement;
        The PO will commit itself to the objectives of the project and will undertake to conduct its
        operations and affairs with qualified and experienced management in accordance with sound
        financial standardsand practices;



                                                     35

        The agreement will include clear identification of the respective roles and responsibilities of
        PPAF andPOs;
        The PO will establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and operational policies for
        supervision and monitoring of project related activities;
        The PO will managethe environmental aspects of their operations incompliance with the PPAF's
        EnvironmentalManagement Framework (EMF);
        The PO will promptly inform the PPAF of any condition which interferes or threatens with the
        performance by the PO and its obligations under the PO Partnership Agreement;
        The PO will provide all records, documents and information in respect of the assistance made
        through it, the projects for which such assistance has been made, and other activities of the PO, as
        the PPAFwill reasonably request;
        The PO will provide the PPAF with quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) on agreed
        formats, and any other reports required at regular intervals and as specified by the PPAF. It will
        maintainrecords and accounts inaccordancewith sound accounting practices;
        The PO will provide the PPAF with its medium term implementationplan within the framework
        for assistance; and
        The PPAFwill have the rightto suspendor terminate the Partnership Agreement if
            a. the PO fails to perform its functions
            b. the PO fails to submit quarterly PMRs within45 days of the end of the quarter or annual
                 audited financial statementswithin 5 months of the end of a fiscal year informats
                 acceptableto the PPAF, as attached with the Partnership Agreement, or to performits
                 obligations under the PPAFPO Partnership Agreement, or upon notice by IDA to the
                 government.
            c. Ifthe PO provides notice that it intends to terminate the PO Partnership Agreement or
                 uponthe actual termination of the POPartnership Agreement, whichever occurs first.

Government agencies cannot be POs of the PPAF under the terms described above. Instead, if a public
organization (such as PIMS or any other public organizatiodinstitution) i s chosen to deliver services to
the project, it would be through a consultancy arrangement. Such consultancies would be awarded
following standardBank procedures for procurement.

Likely implementing partners
Six partner organizations have been tentatively identified as likely partners for this project, comprising of
four existing POs with whom the PPAF has an on-going partnership agreements in the 34 primarily
targeted union councils (see Table 3) and two disability and mental health specialized partners. The
tentative identification of partners has been conducted to assess capacity and interest in contributing to
this project and to ensure rapid deployment of services once the project i s effective. Partnership
agreements with the pre-identified POs will be established based on desk reviews and field appraisals of
proposals formulated by the POs themselves. Appraisal of the POs i s expected to be an on-going process
and could include new POs with a track record of working in the regions and/or in possession of
competences and skills essential for providing quality services to the PWDs. Thus, pre-identified
partnerships by no means preclude the option of entering into arrangements with new partners. As always,
all partners will have to be formally selected according to the PPAF standard eligibility criteria and
applicationproceduresas summarized above.




                                                    36

*comprising physically disabled identified inthe rapid PPAFhousing and damage assessment (see Annex
4).
**  comprising 2 UCs where Sungi has responsibility for housing reconstruction and one adjacent UC
where it i s proposed that Sungi also takes on the disability responsibility.


Preliminaryidentifiedpartners arebriefly describedbelow:

NationalRural Support Program, (NRSP)
Established in 1991, the NRSP is a non-profit organization registered under the Companies Ordinance. Its
mandate is to alleviate poverty by supporting local initiatives through development activities. It has a
presencein 42 Districts in Pakistan inall four provinces. The NRSP i s currently working with more than
half a million poor households organized in a network of more than 29,000 Community Organizations. It
i s a leading organization inPakistanfor poverty reductionand rural development.

Inthe earthquake-affected areas, the NRSP has been facilitating smaller organizations which rely on the
NRSP's long term relationship with community organizations. The NRSP sees its role as coordinator and
supporter in bridging the gap between the affected population and different agencies active in relief and
rehabilitation. The NRSP also provides emergency relief (health, food and shelter) funded by
international donors. The NRSP i s working under partnership agreement with the PPAF in 15 of the 34
union councils as a key actor in housing reconstruction and rehabilitation project, including the damage
assessment, comprising all households inthose 15 union councils.

Islamic Relief (IR)
Islamic Relief (E),established in 1984 inthe UnitedKingdom, i s an internationalrelief and development
organization which support sustainable economic and social development through working with local
communities in relief and development. Islamic Relief i s working in 30 countries in Europe, USA Asia,
and Africa. Besides providing emergency assistance, Islamic Relief aims at addressing the root causes of
poverty in the health, education and agricultural sectors. Islamic Relief has partnership agreement with
PPAF to work in4 of the 34 union councils under the project inprovision of housing and rehabilitation of
infrastructure. Islamic Relief employs some 50 staff inthe affected areas.

Sarhad RuralSupport Program(SRSP)
SRSP, established in 1987 i s a non-profit non-government organization, operating in the North West
Frontier Province (NWFP). It works for poverty reduction through promotion of livelihoods, health,
education, microfinance, and gender equality inrural areas. SRSPhas a partnership agreement with PPAF
and is currently operating in 12of the 34 PPAFunions councils under the project inemergency relief and
reconstruction and rehabilitation.




                                                     37

Sungi Development Foundation
Sungi Development Foundation was formed in 1992 as a non-profit NGO specialized in mobilizing the
deprived and marginalized members of society. It has experience in community-based development
programs including training and action research related to rural development, agriculture, water and
forestry. It i s a partner organization for PPAFinhousing reconstruction and rehabilitation in 3 of the 34
union councils.

Handicap International
Handicap International (HI), established in 1982, i s an international, French-based, NGO working with
local partners in 60 countries worldwide. It works on behalf of people with physical, sensory, or mental
impairment and people with mental health problems and chronic diseases, including HIV/AIDS. HIhas
developed a unique holistic community-based rehabilitation approach to disability, empowering PWDs to
claim and engage indisability relief and rehabilitation.

HIhas been present inPakistan since the Oct 2005 earthquake. Activities comprise assistance to spinal
cord injuries, orthopedic services, assistance to lower limp amputees in the form of physiotherapy and
capacity building of hospitalshehabilitation centerskonvalescence centers. Many of these activities are
implemented with local partners, including the Pakistanis Institute for Prosthetic and Orthotic Sciences
(PIPOS), the Special Talent Exchange Program(STEP - a disabled people's organization) and Milestone
Society (also a disabled people's organization).

6.3 The Bank's supervision

The Bank's supervision of this project would be closely aligned with the supervision of the secondPPAF
project, especially its earthquake component. To the extent possible, joint supervision missions would be
carried out every six months. The MIS system would also be shared.

6.4 Collaborationwith ERRA and other actors inthe sector
Consultations and discussions have been held with ERRA regarding the mandate given to PPAF in
providing reconstruction and rehabilitation services in34 union councils of the earthquake-affected areas.
The project design builds upon and is in compliance with government policies of addressing vulnerable
persons and in particular persons with disabilities (through CBR approaches) and close coordination will
be ensured with government led initiatives addressing vulnerable persons. The project would closely
coordinate activities with ERRA and other actors operating in the affected areas to strengthen possible
synergies and avoid duplication and overlapping. Collaboration will comprise sharing of data on persons
with disabilities, number and types and inthe course of implementation, reporting on progress in service
delivery to PWDs as well as lessons learned of relevance for scaling-up by private or public sector actors.
The Bank's task team has extended an invitation to ERRA-CMUto undertakejoint supervision.




                                                     38

                  Annex 7: FinancialManagementand DisbursementArrangements
                               PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY


PPAF I1continues to maintain acceptable financial managementand disbursement arrangements. Though
the specific activities of this project (Disability Grant) deviate from the traditional PPAF core focus, the
same set of financial management systems as applicable in PPAF I1would still be appropriate for this
project, while keeping in view the small size of the grant and the consistent style of operations managed
through the partner organizations. The grant funds shall be disbursed through the pooled bank account
already used for the Bank funds. Since PPAF 11i s using a `report-based disbursement' method for
accessing the Bank funds usingthe agreed formats of Financial Monitoring Reports - FMRs (now called
Interim Unaudited Financial Reports - lUFRs),          the same shall continue to serve as the basis of
withdrawal of grant funds.

As per the previous practice for other projects executedby PPAF, the activities relatedto the grant would
be reported and audited as part of the entity annual financial statements of PPAF to be submitted to the
Bank on or before December 31 each year. However, the details of the Sources and Uses of Funds with
respect to the disability grant activities would be disclosed separately in the notes to the financial
statements.

Retroactivefinancing:
Retroactive financing will be provided for project preparation and project expenditures amounting to no
more than US$1 million for expenditures incurred after August 14, 2006. Activities included in the
project description are eligible for retroactive financing. Bank guidelines will be followed for claiming
retroactive financing.




                                                      39

                                 Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                             PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY


A. General

Procurement for the proposed prqiect would be carried out in accordance wit-- the WOI Bank's
"Guidelines: Procuremen; under- IE%UlLoans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different expenditure categories
are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different procurement
methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan.
The Procurement Plan will be updated at. least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurementof Works: There are no procurement of works envisaged under this grant.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include prosthetic and assistive
devices for targeted groups. There are no procurements anticipated under ICBs.NCBs will be carried out
using bidding documents for national competitive bidding acceptable to the Bank. Procurement for
contracts estimated to cost $30,000 and below may be carried out under the Shopping procedure of the
Bank

Review thresholds: The first contract for Goods awarded by the PPAF will require the Bank's prior
review irrespective of estimated cost. Thereafter, Goods contracts estimated to cost over $200,000 will
require Bank's prior review. All other procurements below these thresholds will be subject to post review
by the Bank.

The following improvements in bidding procedures will apply to all procurement of Goods and Works
under National Competitive Bidding, in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad
consistency with the provisions of Section 1of the Guidelines:
    I   Invitation to bid shall be advertised in at least one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at
        least 30 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
    I   bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
        requiredfee;
    I   foreign bidders shall not be precluded from biddingand no preference of any kind shall be given
        to nationalbidders inthe biddingprocess;
    I   biddingshall not berestricted to pre-registered f i i ;
    S   qualificationcriteria shallbe stated inthe biddingdocuments;
    I   bids shall be openedinpublic,immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
    I   bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without
        the prior concurrence of the Association;
    I   before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Association's prior concurrence shall be
        obtained;
    I   bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis of unit prices and not on the
        basis of a composite schedule of rates;
    I   contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally negotiated rates;
    I   contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;and
        post-biddingnegotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.



                                                      40

Procurement of non-consulting services: The objective of this component is to buildthe capacity of the
PPAF, its partner organizations, as well as service providers and civil society organizations to ensure
rehabilitation services to the PWDs and their families.

Selection of Consultants: The objective of this component is to ensure delivery of a range of services
addressing disability and mental health related needs of the PWDs and their families in targeted
earthquake-affected union councils. Contracts estimated to cost $200,000 and above will be procured in
accordance with Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less
than $200,000 may be procured through the method of Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications.
For contracts with consulting fm estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent, the shortlist of
consultants may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs
2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. Contracts with individual consultants will be procuredin
accordancewith the provisionsof paragraphs5.1 to 5.4 in Section V of the Consultants Guidelines.

Operating Costs: The grant will finance the project management and support functions undertaken by
the PPAF. A small disability team would be established within the PPAFand would initially form part of
the PPAF's Relief and Reconstruction Unit.

B. Assessmentof the agency'scapacity to implement procurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by PPAF. The agency i s staffed by a fully functional
procurement department, headedby a Procurement Manager.

An assessment of the capacity of the Implementing Agency to implement procurement actions for the
project was not considered necessary due to PPAF's experience and satisfactory procurement
performance under previous Bank credits. PPAF also interacts closely with POs to ensure compliance
with procurement stipulations.

The overall project riskfor procurement is Medium.

C. ProcurementPlan

The PPAF will develop a procurement plan for project implementation which provides the basis for the
procurement methods and prior review thresholds. This plan will be agreed between the PPAF and the
Project Team. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as
requiredto reflect the actual project implementationneeds and improvements ininstitutionalcapacity.

D.Frequencyof Procurement Supervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervision to becarriedout fromBank offices, the capacity assessment of
the Implementing Agency has recommended annual supervision missions to visit the field to carry out
post review of procurement actions.




                                                    41

                         Annex 9: EligibilityCriteria & Terms of Partnership
                             PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKEDISABILITY


EligibilityCriteria for PartnerOrganizations

Partner Organizations (POs) are identified and selected through transparent pre-selection criteria. They
are expected to share the same values as the PPAF, and have the capacity to implement community
projects. The selection of POs i s expected to be an ongoing process, whereby new ones may be addedand
others excluded based on their performance. Proactively soliciting new POs would ensure that those that
develop their capacities to handle PPAF's work can also be included to expand PPAF's outreach over
time. POs which satisfy, and continue to satisfy, the eligibility criteria as specified in the Operations
Manual would beeligible for funding.These criteria include the following:
    I   POs would be registeredunder the laws of Pakistan;
    I   POs would have a proven track record of at least two years inrelevant areas such as small-scale
        community physical infrastructure, social sector development, disability work, or social
        mobilization;
    8   POs would be involved inparticipatory development at the grass-roots level, have the capacity to
        expand their outreach and have a well-developed strategy and work planned for the future;
    I   POs would have a proper andtransparent accounting system;
    I   POs would have programs for women (for example, inmicro-creditlmicro-enterprise, small-scale
        community physical infrastructure development andor capacity building);
    I   POs would be willing and able to submit regular monitoringreports to the PPAFand to submit to
        monitoring and evaluation by the PPAF or by any outside agency appointed by the PPAF for this
        purpose;
    8   POs would be willing and able to maintain all relevant records, documents and information in
        respect o f financing received from the PPAF, and to furnishthese to the PPAF;
    I   POs would conduct audits inaccordancewith the laws under which they are registered, with audit
        scope acceptable to the PPAF, and be willing and able to accept mandatory external audits by
        firms of charteredaccountantsappointed by the PPAF;
    8   POs would be financially sustainable or on the path to sustainability, as judged in the light of a
        realistic businessplan and progress madeby themtowards achieving self-sufficiency; and
    I   POs would not be political, discriminatory, ethnic, sectarianor exclusionary innature.

Termsof PartnershipbetweenPPAFandPOsthat meetthe EligibilityCriteria

Each eligible PO would enter into a written 'PO FinancingAgreement' with the PPAF that would provide
for:
    I   The PO to declare its commitment to the objectives of the project and to undertake to conduct its
        operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
        and experienced management and inaccordancewith its charter;
    I   The PO to establish and maintain satisfactory procedures and operational policies for supervision
        and monitoring of sub-projects so as to ensurethe achievement of the objectives of the project;
    I   The PO to manage the environmental aspects of their operations incompliance with PPAF's
        EnvironmentalManagement Framework (EMF);
    I   The PO to duly perform all its obligations under the PO Financing Agreement, and not take or
        concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving
        the POFinancingAgreement or any provision thereof;



                                                     42

'The PO to promptly informPPAF of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
 the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by the PO of its obligations
'under the POFinancing Agreement;
 The PO to maintain procedures adequate to monitor and record the progress of sub-projects for
 which loans and grants have been made through it, to maintain records and accounts adequate to
 reflect, inaccordancewith sound accounting practices, the operations, resourcesand expenditures
 of the PO inrespect of the project and said subprojects, to have suchrecords andproject accounts
 prepared quarterly and annually on prescribed formats, and to have the annual project accounts
 audited inaccordancewith appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by an independent
'auditor acceptableto PPAF;
 The PO to provide to PPAF all records, documents and information in respect of the loans or
 grants made through it, the sub-projects for which such loans or grants have beenmade, and other
 activities of the PO, as PPAF would reasonably request;
 The PO to provide to PPAFquarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) and any other reports
 requiredat regular intervals specified by the PPAF;
'The PO to provide to PPAFits mediumterm business plan; and
 PPAFto have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the PO to the use of the proceeds of
 the Credit for making loans or grants:
     o uponfailure by the POto performandor lack of absorptive capacity;
     o upon failure by the PO to submit quarterly PMRs within 45 days of the end of a quarter,
          or
     o annual audited financial statementswithin 5 months of the end o f a fiscal year informats
          acceptable to the PPAF and IDA, as attached with the Financing Agreement, or to
          perform its obligations under the PO Financing Agreement, or upon notice by IDA to the
          Government; or
     o upon notice by the PO that it intends to terminate the PO Financing Agreement or upon
          the actual termination of the POFinancingAgreement, whichever occurs first.




                                             43

                           Annex 10: ProjectPreparation and Supervision
                             PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY




InitialPID to PIC                                     04/27/2006         06/01/2006
InitialISDS to PIC                                    04/27/2006         06/01/2006
Appraisal                                                                05/24/2006
Negotiations                                          10/25/2006
Board/RVP approval                                    11/21/2006
Planneddate of effectiveness                          01/01/2007
Planneddate of mid-termreview                         01/15/2008
Plannedclosing date                                   12/31/2008


Key institutionsresponsible for preparation of the project:

PakistanPoverty Alleviation Fund


Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                               Title                  Unit
Rasmus Heltberg                    TTL, SP Economist                     SASHD
Aleksandra Posarac                 Co-TTL, Senior SP Economist           ECSHD
Sheila Braka-Musiime               Counsel                               LEGMS
MartinSerrano                      Counsel                               LEGMS
FurqanAhmad Saleem                 FinancialManagement Specialist        SARFM
Asif Ali                           Senior Procurement Specialist         SARPS
Charlotte McLain-Nhlapo            Disability Advisor                    EASHD
Janie Mary-Anne Eriksen            Disability Consultant                 SASHD
Gertrude Cooper                    ProgramAssistant                      SASHD


Bank funds expendedto date on project preparation:
                                                 US$
     1. Bank resources:                          129,332.14
    2. Trust funds:                               36,128.46
    3. Total:                                    165,460.60

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcoststo approval:                  10,000.00
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost:          50,000.00




                                                   44

                              Annex 11:Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                           PAKISTAN:EARTHQUAKEDISABILITY


BankDocuments

Back-to-OfficeReport: Social ProtectionMission to Pakistan (November 22-December 8,2005).
PakistanEarthquake SocialWelfareDisability (P099542) -Statementof Mission Objectives (January17-
  February 5,2006).
Back-to-OfficeReport: Social ProtectionMission to Pakistan (January 17-February 5,2006).
Project Concept Note: PK Earthquake Social WelfareDisability (P099542), May 17,2006.
Project Appraisal Document, PK Earthquake Social WelfareDisability (P099542), May 22,2006.
Back-to-Office Report: Social ProtectionMission to Pakistan-Pre-appraisal Mission (June 2006).
Back-to-Office Report: Social Protection Mission to Pakistan -Appraisal Mission (July - August 2006)




                                                  45

                                 Annex 12: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKEDISABILITY

                                                                                            Difference
                                                                                         betweenexpected
                                                                                             and actual
                                         Original Amount inUS$Millions                    disbursements
Project FY   Purpose                    IBRD      IDA      SF      GEF   Cancel. Undisb. Orig.      Frm.
ID                                                                                                 Rev'd
PO97402 2006 SecondPartnershipfor        0.00    46.70     0.00     0.00  0.00   20.13   -27.23      0.00
             PolioEradication
PO76872 2006 PIFRA I1                    0.00    84.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   71.05    -3.00      0.00
PO99110 2006 PakistanEarthquakeERC       0.00 400.00       0.00     0.00  0.00  250.43               0.00
                                                                                         165.12
PO77306 2005 Tax Administration          24.40   78.50     0.00     0.00  0.00   94.77   27.20       0.00
             ReformProject
PO88994 2005 TaunsaBarrage              123.00    0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   86.40    13.68      0.00
             EmergencyRehab. &
             Modern
PO83370 2004 PKPublic Sect Capacity      0.00    55.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   37.87    4.01       0.00
             Building Project
PO82977 2004 SecondPoverty               0.00 238.00       0.00     0.00  0.00   163.78  -29.95      0.00
             Alleviation FundProject
PO82621 2004 NWFP Community              0.00    37.10     0.00     0.00  0.00   34.40     2.16      0.00
             InfrastructureI1(CIP2)
PO78997 2004 Sindh On-FarmWater          0.00    61.14     0.00     0.00  0.00   40.49    11.11      0.00
             ManagementProject
PO10556 2004 HIGHWAYS REHAB             50.00   150.00     0.00     0.00  0.00  290.46    9.79       0.00
PO71454 2003 AJK Community               0.00    20.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   43.41     8.71      0.00
             Infrastructure & Services
PO74797 2003 BankingSector Technical     0.00    26.50     0.00     0.00  0.00   13.17    7.77       0.00
             Assistance
PO74856 2003 HIV/AIDS Prevention         0.00    27.83     0.00     0.00  0.00   28.37    10.04      7.42
             Project
PO77288 2003 NationalEducation           0.00     3.63     0.00     0.00  0.00    3.06     1.36      0.00
             AssessmentSystem
PO71092 2001 NWFP ON-FARM                0.00    21.35     0.00     0.00  3.47   16.53    5.07      -0.55
             WATER
             MANAGEMENT
             PROJECT
PO56213 2001 TRADE & TRANSPORT           0.00     3.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.14    0.01       0.00
PO35823 2001 GEF-ProtectedAreas          0.00     0.00     0.00    10.08  0.00    7.67    4.72       0.00
             ManagementProject
                                 Total:        1,252.75    0.00    10.08  3.47  1,202.13  -          6.87
                                        197.40                                           119.67




                                                    46

                                    PAKISTAN
                              STATEMENT OF IFC's
                             HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                              InMillions of US Dollars


                                     Committed                     Disbursed
                                   IFC                            IFC
FY        Company         Loan   Equity     Quasi  Partic. Loan   Equity Quasi Partic.
Approval
2005     ABAMCO FUND      0.00      3.46     0.00    0.00   0.00   3.46   0.00  0.00
          ABNAMRO PAK     6.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   6.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1995      AES La1Pir      17.31     9.50     0.00    0.00   17.31  9.50   0.00  0.00
1996      AES Pak Gen     10.13     9.50     0.00    8.05   10.13  9.50   0.00  8.05
1995     Abamco Mgmt      0.00      0.29     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.29   0.00  0.00
         Askari Bank      4.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   4.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1991     BRRIM            0.00      0.27     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.27   0.00  0.00
1993     CrescentBahuman  0.00      0.31     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.31   0.00  0.00
1997     CrescentBahuman  0.00      0.20     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.20   0.00  0.00
2001     CrescentBahuman  3.34      0.00     2.50    1.50   3.34   0.00   2.40  1.50
2004     DewanSME         0.00      0.99     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2003     DewanSalman      27.50     0.00     5.00    0.00  27.50   0.00   4.00  0.00
2004     DewanSalman      30.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1991     Engro Chemical   0.00      1.95     0.00    0.00   0.00   1.95   0.00  0.00
2001     EniPakistan      15.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   15.00  0.00   0.00  0.00
1990     FIIB             0.00      0.27     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.27   0.00  0.00
1992     FIIB             0.00      0.40     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.40   0.00  0.00
2002     Fauji Cement     0.40      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2004     FirstUDL         7.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
         GTFPMetropolita  0.46      0.00     0.00    0.00   0.46   0.00   0.00  0.00
1996     Gul Ahmed        9.45      4.10    0.00     7.15   9.45   4.10   0.00  7.15
2003     KCT              6.89      0.00     1.50    0.00   6.89   0.00   1S O  0.00
1995     Kohinoor         7.50      6.30    0.00     4.07   7.50   6.30   0.00  4.07
         MetropolitanBnk  3.00      0.00    0.00     0.00   3.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2002     MicroBank        0.00      2.43    0.00     0.00   0.00   2.43   0.00  0.00
2004     NBFICredit       7.00      0.00    0.00     0.00   7.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2002     NetworkLeasing   1.94      0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2005     PICT             6.00      0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
2006     PICT             8.00      0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1983     PPL              0.00      1.40    0.00     0.00   0.00   1.40   0.00  0.00
2002     PPL              0.00      5.96    0.00     0.00   0.00   5.96   0.00  0.00
1965     Packages         0.00      0.05    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.05   0.00  0.00
1987     Packages         0.00      0.02    0.00     0.00   0.00   0.02   0.00  0.00



                                        47

1991   Packages                0.00       0.02    0.00   0.00     0.00  0.02     0.00 0.00
1994   Packages                0.00       0.01    0.00   0.00     0.00  0.01     0.00 0.00
1995   Packages                0.00       0.26    0.00   0.00     0.00  0.26     0.00 0.00
2005   Packages                25.00      5.43    0.00   0.00     0.00  1.47     0.00 0.00
2001   Sarah Textiles          1.60       0.00    0.00   0.00     1.60  0.00     0.00 0.00
       Soneri Bank             3.00       0.00    0.00   0.00     3.00  0.00     0.00 0.00
2004   TRG Pakistan            0.00       4.20    0.00   0.00     0.00  4.20     0.00 0.00
2006   Tameer Bank             0.00       1.01    0.00   0.00     0.00  1.01     0.00 0.00
1996   UchPower                34.29      0.00    0.00  15.89    29.16  0.00     0.00 15.89
       Union Bank - PAK        2.00       0.00    0.00   0.00     2.00  0.00     0.00 0.00
              Total portfolio:           58.33    9.00  36.66          53.38     7.90 36.66
                               236.81                          153.34



                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
       FY            Company                    Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic.
       Approval
       2004          Dewan S h E               0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
       2004          NBFICredit                0.04      0.00      0.00    0.00
       2006          Tameer Bank               0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
                                 Total pending   0.04    0.00      0.00    0.00
                                 commitment:




                                              48

                                                      Annex 13: Countryat a Glance
                                            PAKISTAN: EARTHQUAKEDISABILITY

 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South     LOW-
                                                    Pakistan    Asla   Income       Development diamond'
 2005
 Population,mid-year(millions)                          155.8    1,447    2,343
 GNIpercapita(Aflasrnethod,US$j                          690     590        5%                    Lifeexpectancy
 GNI(Atlas method, US$billionsj                         '07.3    859      1,188                         -
 Average annual growth, 1999-05
 Population (%j                                           2.4      1.7       19
 Laborforce(%)                                            3.0      2.1      2.2                                              Gross
                                                                                                                            primary
 M o s t recent estlmate (latest year available, 1899-05)                           capita                             enrollment
 Poverty(% ofpopulation be10wnationalpovertylinej          33
 Urbanpopulation (%of fotalpopulafionj                     34      29        31
 Lifeexpeclancyatbirth (parsj                              64      63        58                         I
 Infantmortality(per lOOOlivebirths)                       74      66        79
 Childmalnutrition(%of childrenunder5j                     35      49        43          Access to improvedwtersource
 Access to an improvedwtersoume (%ofpopulation)            90      84        75
 Literacy(%ofpopulationage Wj                              47       61       61
 Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)        68     n 3       %O            -Pakistan
   Male                                                    80     n8        n 5                    Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                  57      97        94            ~




 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1985     1995    2004     2005        Economlc ratios'
 GDP (US$ billionsj                              31.1    64.6    96.1     1n.7
 Gross capitalformatiorVGDP                      18.3    18.5     7.3       16.8
 ExportsOf goods andSewicesIGDP                  n.4     15.7     16.0     15.3                       Trade
 Gross domestic savings1GDP                      5.9     15.8     18.4     P.2
Gross nationalSavingsIGDP                       22.7     210     23.0      18.0                          T
Current account balancelGDP                      -4.1    -4.0     2.0       -13
 Interest paymentslGDP                            17      2.0      0.6      0.7     Domestic                        Capital

Total debtlGDP                                  43.2     49.9    37.1      31.8     savings                         formation

Total debt sewicdexporls                        24.5     27.6    22.3      e.3
 Presentvalue of debllGDP                                        29.8
 Presentvalue of debtleqorts                                     149.3
                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                    1985-95 1995-05    2004     2005 2005-09
 (averageannualgroevth)
GDP                                      5.2     3.7      6.4     7.8       6.5              -Pakistan
GDP percapita                            2.6      12      3.9     5 2       4.6
 Eqorts 01 goods andsewices              9.8     6.5      -15                                       Low-incomegroup
                                                                  7.6      15.5               ~


                                                                                                                                1




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                                                    ;-
                                               1985     1995    2004     2005
 (OhofGDPj                                                                         Growth of capital and GDP         ( O h )

Agriculture                                     28.5     26.1    223       21.6
Industry                                        22.5     23.8    249       25.1
  Manufacturing                                  15.9    15.3    I76       18.2
Sewices                                         49.0     50.1    527      53.3     .lo
                                                                                                                               -
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure           82.0     72.4    733      80.0
Generalgov't finalconsumption expenditure        P.1      11.7    8 4       7.8
Imports of goods andsewices                     22.8     8.4     149       8.9                 -GCF            -GDP


                                            1985-95 l995-05     2004     2005
(averageannualgrovdhj                                                              Growth of exports and imports            (Oh)
                                                                                   :$==+L
Agriculture                                      4.1      2.7     2 2       7.5    6o T
industry                                         6.3      4.4    PO        n.2
  Manufacturing                                  5.7      5.9     141      P.5
Sewices                                          5.2      4.3     6 0       7.9
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure            4.3      3.5     8 2      15.8
Generalgov't finalconsumption expenditure        3.9      2.4      21       2.3   .20

Gross capitalformation                           4.3      0.8    -32        1.7
imports of goods andsewices                      3.4      14     -86       44.1


Note:2005dataarepreliminaryestimates. Groupdataareto 2004
'Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inlhecounlry(inboid)comparedvdthitsincome-groupaverage. If dataare mlssing,thediamonddil
  beincomplete.




                                                                         49


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 35033


                                                                                             PAKISTAN
                                                                     EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY

                                                                                                                                                    RIVERS
                                                      HEAVILY AFFECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                    MAIN ROADS
                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES


                                                            65E65E                                                            70E70E                          TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                               AJIKISTAN                                         75E75E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHINACHINA

                                                                                                                                                              KusEpicenterEpicenter
                                                                                                                                                                        h                                                                   K2K2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Austen)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Austen)

                                         PAKISTAN
                                                                                                               FED. CAPITAL
                                                                                                               FED. CAPITAL                        HinduChitralChitral  7.6 Saturday October 8 , 2005
                                                                                                                                                                        7.6 Saturday, October                  2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Karakoram(8,611          (8,611 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m)
                                                                                                                                                                        5.6 & 5.8 Wednesday, October 19, 2005
                                                                                                                                                                        5.6      5.8       dnesday October 19, 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Indus

                                                                                                                 TERRITOR
                                                                                                                 TERRITORY                                                                                                                Range
 35N                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ApproximateApproximate
                                                                                                                ISLAMABADISLAMABAD                          N . W. F. P.                                  80                       Line of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Line of Control
                                                                                                                                                                                                        60   km

                                                                                                                                                                                                  40      km
                                                                                                                                                             SaiduSaidu     BatagramBatagram
                                                                                                                                                                                              20 km    km


                                                                                                                                                                          Bala Kot
                                                                                                                                                                          Bala Kot
                                                                                                                               To                                       MansehraMansehra    MuzaffarabadMuzaffarabad                        KargilKargil
                                                                                                                              Kabul                              Abbottabad
                                                                                                                                                                 Abbottabad                                         SrinagarSrinagar
                                                                                                                                           PeshawarPeshawar                              Bagh
                                                                                                                                                                                         Bagh
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rawalakot
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rawalakot                                   JammuJammu
                                                                                                                                                           ISLAMABADISLAMABAD                                        and Kashmir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     and Kashmir
                                                                                                                                                KahatKahat                              RawalpindiRawalpindi

                                                     AFGHANISTANAFGHANISTAN                                                      BannuBannu

                                                                                                                                                                        Jhelum              GujratGujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                               GujranwalaGujranwala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To

                                                                        To                                                          D.I. Khan
                                                                                                                                    D.I. Khan                               Chenab                                                            MandiMandi

                                                                      Kandahar
                                                                                                                  ZhobZhob                                                               FaisalabadFaisalabad    LahoreLahore


                                                                              ChamanChaman                                                                                              Ravi
                                                                                                          Zhob                                      P U N J A B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Ludhiana
                                                                                                                                                                                         SahlwalSahlwal          Bhatinda


 30N30N                                                                              QuettaQuetta
                                                                                                                              D.G. Khan
                                                                                                                              D.G. Khan                     MultanMultan    Sutlej                                                           30N

                                                                                                                                              Indus
 To
Kerman                                                                                                                                                       BahawalpurBahawalpur
                              Nok Kundi
                              Nok Kundi
                                                           B A L O C H I S T A N
                                                                          SurabSurab                                                        e  r   t
 ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                e  s

REPUBLIC                                                                                                                            D                                                         INDIA
                                                                                                                               r
         OF                                                                                                    RanipurRanipur a
                        To                                                                                                   h
      IRAN                                                                                                                T
                       Khash           PanjgurPanjgur



                                   Central Makran        RangeMashkai                             MoroMoro
                                                                                                          S I N D H
    To                   Turbat
                          urbat                                           BelaBela
 Kerman
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                     Jodhpur

                      GwadarGwadar

 25N                                 Pasni                                                             HyderabadHyderabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             25N25N


                                                                         Karachi                  ThattaThatta  BadinBadin
                                                                                           Indus
This map was produced by                                                                                         Rann of Kutch
                                          A r a b i a n              S e a
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,
colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                               0        50      100 150 200 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                              0               50          100            150 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
boundaries.                                            65E                                                                       70E                                                                                                 75E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SEPTEMBER 2006

