Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3276 
Project Name 
PK Earthquake Disability 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (60%);Health (40%) 
Project ID 
P099542 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund 
House No. 1, Street No. 20 
Sector F-7/2 
Islamabad 
Pakistan 
Tel: 2653304  Fax: 2652246 
ppaf@isb.comsats.net.pk 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
Economic Affairs Division 
Government of Pakistan 
Pakistan 
Tel: +92 51 920 3815 Fax: +92 51 921 8976 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 21, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 20, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
May 21, 2007 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The 7.6 magnitude earthquake that hit Pakistan on October 8, 2005 devastated one of the most remote 
mountainous parts of the world and one of the poorest parts of Pakistan. According to the joint ADB-
World Bank Needs Assessment, approximately 73,000 people died and more than 70,000 have been 
severely injured or disabled. Many injured had amputated limbs or severe spinal cord injuries that left 
them paralyzed. Preliminary estimates show a large population affected by physical or mental disorders 
and disabilities, including post-traumatic stress and trauma. Besides those newly disabled because of the 
earthquake, persons already disabled have sometimes lost their support systems and whatever services 
they were getting before the earthquake. People with disabilities will need external help geared to long-
term rehabilitation.  
 
The magnitude of physical destruction, much bigger than first estimated, has focused the government’s 
reconstruction efforts on housing with an aim to reconstruct most of the houses and secure shelter for the 
earthquake victims before winter. Housing reconstruction is stretching local capacities and causing other 
rehabilitation needs including those of the disabled people to remain largely unaddressed. The field visits 
and discussions with communities have indicated that many persons with disabilities (PWDs) still need 
medical help; many more need physical rehabilitation, and almost all who experienced the earthquake are 
Page  2
in need of psycho-social assistance. These needs are placed against a severe lack of social services in the 
earthquake-affected areas.  
 
In response to the earthquake, the government has adopted the National Strategy and Plan of Action for 
Vulnerable Populations in Earthquake-affected Areas, and the Earthquake Reconstruction and 
Rehabilitation Agency (ERRA) has recently prepared a social protection strategy. These documents 
formulate strategies and policies for assisting the vulnerable, including the PWDs, with community-based 
rehabilitation as key approach in an environment that faces an acute shortage of services and severely 
constrained resources. The proposed project is consistent with these strategy documents and would be 
implemented as part of the government’s earthquake reconstruction efforts. The project would closely 
coordinate activities with ERRA and other actors operating in the affected areas to strengthen possible 
synergies and avoid duplication and overlap. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The objective of the project is improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families in 
34 Union Councils (UCs) affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, 
improved physical and mental health, increased participation in social and economic life, and 
strengthened empowerment. 
 
Specifically, the project aims to achieve the following outcomes in its target area of 34 UCs: 
 
1.  Improved quality of life of the targeted PWDs, as indicated by their better health, improved 
mobility, increased capacity to take care of themselves and participate in social and economic 
life. 
2.  Improved mental health of the targeted earthquake victims through easing and relieving their 
post-traumatic stress and disorders. 
3.  Improved and increased capacity of the community-based service providers, as well as that of 
specialized institutions, to provide good quality rehabilitation services to the PWDs. 
4.  More enabling environment and increased social mobilization of the PWDs, their families and 
communities to take action on disability. 
 
The project contributes to Pakistan’s long-term objective of reducing poverty and vulnerability and 
improving the welfare of its disadvantaged groups. Persons with disabilities (PWDs) are one of the most 
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized segments of society. The project will test a model for 
community-based service delivery to and empowerment of this group. If successful, the model could be 
scaled up, integrating persons with disabilities better into social and economic life.  
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
1.  
 
The earthquake-affected population, including persons with disabilities has been assisted by the 
government, donors and non-governmental organizations. The general assistance package for the 
earthquake-affected households includes housing reconstruction grants, cash compensation for 
death/injury, and temporary cash transfers for income support and livelihood recovery. The World Bank 
has supported the government’s relief, reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts since immediately after 
Page  3
the earthquake through a range of activities and $840 million new lending and $30 million in reallocation. 
The new lending includes a $400 million Emergency Recovery Credit and a $100 million additional 
finance to the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund, approved by the Board on December 15, 2005.  
 
The PWDs in the earthquake-affected areas need medical care and specialized rehabilitation services in 
addition to the cash transfers and housing. The World Bank and the Japanese Government have approved 
two emergency JSDF projects for disability, which will help establish four Resource and Information 
Centers for community-based rehabilitation (through Handicap International), and four independent living 
centers (co-located in the Resource and Information Centers and operated by Milestone Society, a 
Disabled Peoples Organization) in the earthquake-affected areas. Also, a few services for people with 
disabilities have been provided through the health care system and other actors, although some of these 
services were on a relief basis and have now ceased. These services are well below the needs and not 
always of acceptable quality. There is also a lack of know-how of community-based rehabilitation and 
inclusion of persons with disabilities, calling for capacity building for the relevant actors.  
 
The proposed project will fill in some of the gaps in service provision to the PWDs in the earthquake 
districts. It will pilot a community-based approach to rehabilitation, offering a learning experience for the 
government’s strategy that envisages community-based rehabilitation (CBR) as a core aspect of its 
disability policies. It will also contribute to building local capacity to address disability issues, applying 
state-of-the-art knowledge, techniques, and approaches.  
 
The proposed project is listed in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and its objectives support the 
third CAS pillar of improving lives and protecting the vulnerable. The Pakistan Earthquake Disability 
Project, by supporting the establishment and improvements in delivery of services to persons with 
disabilities or mental health issues through community-based rehabilitation, is continuing a long-standing 
trend for the Bank in Pakistan to be a partner in disability with a special focus on launching innovative 
and catalytic initiatives.  
 
4. Description 
2.  
 
The project targets the PWDs in 34 earthquake-affected union councils; they are the UCs in which the 
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF), the executing agency for this project, is carrying out 
reconstruction and rehabilitation on behalf of the government. This project aims to reach all persons with 
disabilities and their families, regardless of type of disability and whether the disability was pre- or post-
earthquake. An initial census conducted by the PPAF revealed some 7,700 physically disabled in the 34- 
project UCs (see Table 1 and appendix 4). Allowing for underreporting and mental health issues (not 
covered by PPAF’s initial census), leads to an estimate of a target population of 15-20,000.  
 
Table 1: Population and PWDs in project areas 
Total population: 
471,254
Total number of houses/households: 
86,945
Casualties: 7,842
Most vulnerable (widows, elderly, orphans, or disabled without support):
4,902
Disabled (incidence of physical disabilities): 
7,742
Page  4
Of which disabled adults: 
4,398
Disabled children 
3,344
Source: PPAF 
 
The project has three components: (i) provision of services, mobilization and empowerment of people 
with disabilities and mental health issues and their families, (ii) capacity building for service providers 
and civil society organizations, and (iii) project management, monitoring, and evaluation
.
Component 1
:
Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment (US$3.9 million)
 
The objective of this component is to ensure delivery of a range of services addressing disability and 
mental health needs of PWDs and their families while at the same time mobilizing and empowering them 
to take action on disability. The component will ensure service delivery, mobilization and empowerment 
through a two-pronged strategy, comprising (a) community-based rehabilitation and (b) rehabilitation 
through a referral to specialized service providers (institutions).  
 
Community-based rehabilitation
 will target the PWDs, their families, and communities through social 
mobilization and other community-based activities aimed at raising awareness and knowledge regarding 
disability, and inducing and stimulating the demand for disability-focused services. This component will 
in particular aim at empowering the disabled to claim and identify ways of meeting their needs for 
rehabilitation and ensure participation in social and economic life. Besides 
enabling/empowerment/inclusion initiatives, the CBR approach aims at arranging for the provision of 
basic disability rehabilitative services at the community level provided by professionals, trained 
community organizers, and volunteers, including the PWDs themselves.  
 
The CBR activities under this project will be carried out by a network of already operating community 
mobilization teams
—strengthened by two disability community workers per union council and will feed 
into (and benefit from) the CBR activities emanating from the four planned Resource and Information 
Centers. These centers (envisaged to operate in Mansehra, Besham, Muzaffarabad, and Bagh) are 
planning a full menu of CBR activities; it is expected that after this project has closed, the CBR activities 
initiated by it will continue and remain anchored in these centers.  
 
Specialized institution-based rehabilitation services
 will be provided by specialized service 
providers/institutions by referring/bringing the PWDs to those institutions and/or through arranging for 
those institutions to deliver outreach services to the PWDs. To the extent possible, the services will be 
provided locally, relying on providers already active in the earthquake-affected areas. The services will 
include medical treatment, physical rehabilitation, provision of prosthetics and other aids, psycho-social 
counseling, and other specialized services. For example: 
 
·
Medical treatment (over and above the services offered by local clinics and practitioners) will be 
provided mostly by major hospitals inside and outside the area. 
·
Physical rehabilitation is expected to be mainly provided by the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic 
and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS), a government institution located in Peshawar. PIPOS runs five 
rehabilitation centers in the earthquake areas, each providing rehabilitation services such as 
production/fitting/maintenance of state of the art prosthetic and orthotics devices and 
physiotherapy, as well as psycho-social rehabilitation. Handicap International (HI) supports 
PIPOS with technical assistance, training, quality assurance, and management training.  
·
Mental health services are almost non-existent in the project areas and will therefore be procured 
specially by the project. Qualified providers will be invited to submit bids for such services, on a 
consultancy basis. The Operations Manual will specify the quality standards against which bids 
Page  5
will be evaluated. Already, the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Psychiatry 
Department, has indicated its interest in providing and training special teams of mental health 
counselors. In doing this, PIMS will be building on its experience acquired during the emergency 
psycho-social relief it provided right after the earthquake. Assistance from the WHO will also be 
sought. 
·
Special and difficult cases that cannot be treated locally will be referred to relevant tertiary 
institutions, including among others the National Institute of the Handicapped (NIHd). Whenever 
possible, institutions that offer services provided free of charge would be preferred. 
 
The key activities
 under this component will comprise:  
 
(i) 
Identification of people with disabilities and needs assessment
.
The starting point for the assessment 
will be initial data already collected by the PPAF on households with disabled members in the 34 union 
councils
1
.
This data is incomplete, and a detailed identification and needs assessment is therefore required 
and will be carried out at the start of the project to complete (in coverage, scope, and detail) the initial 
data. A standard method for identification and needs assessment will be used (to be provided by the 
Handicap International). This information will be entered into the management information system (MIS) 
of the PPAF and partner organizations and will be used to track cases. The identification and needs 
assessment will be conducted by trained disability social workers in collaboration with specialized 
partners.  
 
(ii) 
Formulation and realization of individual rehabilitation plans for all PWDs in the project area
.
Based 
on the needs assessment, individual rehabilitation plans will be formulated by disability social workers 
and the PWDs, under the guidance and backing of professional staff from the HI and internationally 
recruited experts. These plans would comprise strategies for the provision of short- and long-term 
services for all types of disabilities and mental health needs such as health care, physical rehabilitation 
(for instance, basic physiotherapy, occupational therapy, provision of assistive devices), training in 
independent living, psycho-social counseling, and treatment of mental disorders. The priority will be 
given to activities that support, ease and enhance the capability of the PWDs to perform daily household 
chores and/or occupation-related tasks, thus improving the quality of life, welfare and livelihood of the 
disabled and their families. Workshops addressing specific needs, for instance those related to sensory 
impairment such as blindness and deafness can also be carried out. The services under the individual 
rehabilitation plans will be provided by specialized institutions (delivered preferably through outreach), 
and by trained community organizers, community-based organizations, trained volunteers, etc. As already 
mentioned, a special effort will be made to arrange for mental health services (see below).  
 
Taking into account the time frame and resources available to the project, individual cases will be 
prioritized for service delivery by urgency of need as assessed by trained professionals.  
 
(iii) 
Mapping and capacity assessment of service providers to receive referrals
.
A
mapping and capacity 
assessment exercise will be undertaken by the PPAF with its disability specialized partners to identify 
institutions currently providing physical and mental rehabilitation that would have capacity to receive 
referrals of the targeted PWDs and provide good quality services. The capacity assessment would also 
serve: (a) as a basis for setting quality standards (see below); (b) for planning capacity enhancement and 
training of these services providers (see Component 2); and (c) in a few cases, to assist with procurement 
of essential drugs or equipment. 
 
1
The data were collected as part of a housing damage assessment undertaken by PPAF. The assessment comprised 
all households in 34 UCs and was completed in June 2006. 
Page  6
(iv) 
Monitoring the quality of rehabilitation services
.
The PPAF, with inputs from specialized partners 
and international organizations, will define (in the Operations Manual) the standards for rehabilitation 
services for identified partners and service providers and ensure that services provided under the project 
are adequate and of high technical quality. PPAF will arrange third party assessments of the services and 
activities as needed.  
 
(v) 
Mobilization, social integration and empowerment through community-based
 
information, education 
and communication (IEC)
.
Community-based IEC would include a broad range of activities aimed at 
mobilizing and empowering the PWDs to organize themselves to take action on disability and improving 
their livelihood and integration into community life, for example: dissemination of information on 
disability, establishment of thematic/self-help groups; promotion of self-esteem or independent living; 
promotion of school enrollment of disabled children; awareness and anti-discrimination campaigns 
targeting schools, elders, women’s groups, midwifes, and others. These activities would be supported 
through small grants awarded to community groups and NGOs against deliverables. Organizations would 
apply to PPAF for funding of projects that meet these objectives, and a large number of smaller 
organizations are expected to avail of this small grant facility. 
 
The key actors 
 
The PPAF, its partner organizations (POs), disability specialized partners (DSPs) and several community-
based service providers and activity organizers will be involved in implementing this component with the 
following responsibilities and roles: 
 
PPAF
 is the project executing agency and will ensure that the project is implemented successfully and its 
development objectives are accomplished. The PPAF will select the POs and DSPs that would carry out 
the project activities. The PPAF will perform supervision, monitoring, and evaluation. 
 
Partner Organizations
 (POs) will be selected based on the quality of their proposals as per PPAF 
guidelines. Their task will be to: (i) mobilize the communities in 34 UCs for action on disability issues 
through social mobilization teams (SMTs); (ii) recruit two disability social workers per UC (one female, 
one male) and provide for their training in disability issues in coordination with disability specialized 
partners; (iii) conduct the identification and needs assessment in collaboration with the DSPs; (iv) develop 
individual rehabilitation plans; (v) carry out disability-related awareness raising activities; (vi) ensure 
participation of community organizations, households and the PWDs in launching disability services and 
activities; and (vii) support, supervise, register and monitor the PWDs and their families participation in 
project activities.  
 
Disability Specialized Partners
–DSPs (Handicap International, Pakistan Institute for Medical Science, 
and others to be identified) will: (i) carry out capacity and skills development of the POs and the PWDs 
and their families; (ii) assist the POs in planning and conducting the initial identification and needs 
assessment; (iii) assist the POs and their community organizers in developing individual rehabilitation 
plans and monitor their implementation from the technical view; (iv) map institutions for referral of the 
PWDs for treatment and rehabilitation; (v) provide, if required, capacity training to institutions mapped 
for service referrals; (vi) establish a mechanism for referral of the PWDs to the institutions including 
services which will be provided as community outreach services; (vii) help define the standards of 
services and ensure compliance; and (viii) support the supervision and monitoring of service delivery at 
community and specialized institutions level.  
 
Community-based service providers
:
Community-based groups and organizations will be essential in 
designing, organizing and carrying out rehabilitative services and mobilization, empowerment and social 
inclusion activities. Those organizations will be invited to submit their proposals to the PPAF. The PPAF 
Page  7
would evaluate the proposals and award small grants against deliverables for those who qualify for 
financing. The skills, competences and awareness acquired by the PWDs, their families and communities 
through active participation in rehabilitation activities would be essential in empowering the PWDs to be 
fully enjoying and contributing members of society.  
 
Component 2: Capacity building for disability rehabilitation (US$0.45 million) 
 
The objective of this component is to build the capacity of the PPAF, its partner organizations, as well as 
service providers and civil society organizations to ensure rehabilitation services to the PWDs and their 
families. Capacity building/skills development is required since neither the PPAF, nor its implementing 
POs have competences and previous experience in disability work. Training on all aspects of disability 
work will be delivered by Handicap International and others. Training will be tailored to meet the needs 
of the PWDs, their families and communities as identified in the needs assessment.  
 
Sensitization of Project and PO management:  
To ensure commitment and shared understanding of project objectives and design, the PPAF’s general 
management, the PPAF’s Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Unit staff, and the POs’ management will be 
provided with a half day disability sensitization course. In addition, a two weeks disability course for 
direct (operational) managers/core staff of the PPAF and its partners will be conducted at the project start.  
 
Training of disability social workers
:
A
standard training course of two weeks in identification and needs assessment of all types of disabilities 
will be conducted at the project launch, targeting disability social workers who will be recruited to 
reinforce already operating social mobilization teams of the PPAF’s POs. Following the needs 
assessment, a disability/CBR training course of three months will be provided over a period of 12 months, 
using interval training so as to allow project implementation to proceed. The training will be provided by 
Handicap International (through its technical advisors who will act as master trainers).  
 
Capacity building of specialized service providers (institutions): 
 
Handicap International will draw on internationally hired expertise to strengthen its ongoing collaboration 
with the Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic and Orthotics Sciences (PIPOS) in providing quality assurance 
training to the Institute and its five prosthetic centers established in the NWFP and AJK. The training 
would ensure that international best practice is followed in terms of comprehensive rehabilitation 
programs, including prosthetics adaptation, follow-up, physiotherapy training and psycho-social 
counseling. 
 
The Pakistan Institute for Medical Sciences (PIMS) supported by internationally hired specialists is 
expected to be the main partner responsible for training of the mental health service providers. Mental 
health capacity training will ensure that institutions and mobile teams have adequate competences in 
diagnosis of mental disorders including testing of adults and children for mental impairment and in 
service delivery in psycho-social counseling and treatment of mental disorders. PIMS already has 
experience with trauma relief services for the earthquake-affected population. For six months after the 
earthquake, PIMS provided counseling treatment to approximately 40,000 people in a project funded and 
technically supported by the WHO and the International Office of Migration. The project was ceased as 
funding ran out.  
 
Support to community-based organizations for proposal writing:  
The PPAF will offer support and training as needed for the POs, DSPs, and other community-based 
organizations to prepare grants proposals for the financing of disability-oriented initiatives in the 
communities.  
Page  8
Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$0.4 million) 
 
This component will finance the project management and support functions undertaken by the PPAF. A 
small disability team would be established within the PPAF and would initially form part of the PPAF’s 
Relief and Reconstruction Unit. The disability team would supervise all aspects of the project’s 
implementation. It would also prepare an Operations Manual.  
 
The PPAF would also undertake its standard functions such as proposal reviews, activity supervision, 
procurement, financial management, and reporting. An elaborate Management Information System (MIS) 
has been developed for the PPAF’s housing reconstruction. The data base captures key information on all 
105,000 households in the 34 PPAF union councils. Data is entered at field level by the social 
mobilization teams (SMTs). Data is collated at regional, POs, and PPAF levels. The system affords the 
PPAF and the POs’ management real-time information on project progress, total and by subgroups. The 
database and data collection system can easily be amended to capture disability activities and would be 
utilized for this project. 
 
In order to ensure that beneficiaries themselves participate in project monitoring, two advisory councils 
(one in each of Azad Jammu Kashmir [AJK] and North West Frontier Province [NWFP]) comprising 
PWDs will be established. PPAF POs will hold quarterly meetings with these advisory councils to share 
progress update and seek advice for improvement. 
 
There will also be survey-based data collection. As a pilot project, aiming to assess the suitability of the 
project approach to eventually cover all of Pakistan, rigorous impact and process evaluation will be 
conducted with external technical assistance. It will have several elements: 
·
Overall impact on individuals and households: survey-based impact evaluation will be conducted 
at the end of the project focusing on the overall impact, comparing ex-post outcomes to the 
baseline data. 
 
·
Intervention-based evaluation will focus on specific interventions/treatments (such as psycho-
social counseling, physical rehabilitation, or empowerment).
 
·
Pilot replicability will also be assessed, focusing in particular on its organizational complexity, 
human resources requirements, affordability and sustainability. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
5 
 Total 
5 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The PPAF has well established criteria for selecting its POs, which will be followed by this project as 
well. The POs are identified and selected through transparent pre-selection criteria. The POs are expected 
to share the same values as the PPAF and to have the capacity to implement community projects. Under 
this project, the PPAF will enter into partnership with two groups of implementing partners: community 
partner organizations and specialized partner organizations. Government agencies cannot be POs of the 
PPAF under the terms described above. Instead, if a public organization (such as PIMS or any other 
Page  9
public organization/institution) is chosen to deliver services under the project, it would be through a 
consultancy arrangement.  
 
Six partner organizations have been tentatively identified as likely partners for this project, comprising of 
four existing POs (Islamic Relief, NRSP, SRSP, and Sungi) with whom the PPAF has on-going 
partnership agreements in the 34 targeted union councils and two disability and mental health specialized 
partners (Handicap International and PIMS). A tentative identification of partners has been conducted to 
assess capacity and interest in contributing to this project and to ensure rapid deployment of services once 
the project is effective. Partnership agreements with the pre-identified POs will be established based on 
desk reviews and field appraisals of proposals formulated by the POs themselves.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
This project aims at securing sustainability through its partnership approach, exploiting synergies with the 
community mobilization and local development efforts. During the project implementation, the PPAF and 
its implementing POs will acquire considerable skills, knowledge, and awareness of disability and CBR 
which will enable disability mainstreaming into a range of development activities. For example, the PPAF 
will have competences in facilitating and advising potential partners on disability focused projects and in 
supporting their implementation. POs will have knowledge of social mobilization strategies on disability 
and how to stimulate and support disability initiatives at community level. Moreover, the project will 
widen the circle of service providers and organizations working on disability. All the involved 
organizations will be open to having PWDs as staff members. PWDs, their families and communities will 
have been empowered and will have knowledge about and enhanced coping strategies on disabilities. This 
being said, continuation of project activities once project financing has been used up will require new 
sources of financing to be identified, either domestic (philanthropic or government funds) or from foreign 
donors.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
The safeguard Policy on Projects in Disputed Areas OP 7.60 will be triggered as the proposed project will 
be carried out in AJK, an area over which India and Pakistan have been in dispute since 1947. By 
financing the proposed grant, the World Bank does not intend to make any judgment as to the legal or 
other status of any disputed territory or to prejudice the final determination of the parties’ claims. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[ ] 
[x ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
Page  10
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
x]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) 
[ ] 
[ x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
ARTHQUAKE DISABILITY
 
Bank Documents
 
Back-to-Office Report: Social Protection Mission to Pakistan (November 22-December 8, 2005). 
Pakistan Earthquake Social Welfare/Disability (P099542) 
–
Statement of Mission Objectives (January17-
Febrauary 5, 2006). 
Back-to-Office Report: Social Protection Mission to Pakistan (January 17-February 5, 2006). 
Project Concept Note: PK Earthquake Social Welfare/Disability (P099542), May 17, 2006. 
Project Appraisal Document, PK Earthquake Social Welfare/Disability (P099542), May 22, 2006. 
Back-to-Office Report: Social Protection Mission to Pakistan – Pre-appraisal Mission (June 2006).  
Back-to-Office Report: Social Protection Mission to Pakistan – Appraisal Mission (July – August 2006)  
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Rasmus Heltberg 
Title: Social Protection Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5396 
Fax:  
Email: rheltberg@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  11
