Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2395 
Project Name 
PK Earthquake Social Welfare/Disability 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Health (50%); Other social services (50%) 
Project ID 
P099542 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 23, 2006 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
June 12, 2006 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 31, 2006 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The 7.6 magnitude earthquake that hit Pakistan on October 8, 2005 devastated one of the most remote 
mountainous parts of the world and one of the poorest parts of Pakistan. According to the joint ADB-
World Bank Needs Assessment, approximately 73,000 people died and more than 70,000 have been 
severely injured or disabled. Many of the injured had amputated limbs or severe spinal cord injuries that 
left them paralyzed. Preliminary estimates indicate a large population affected by physical or mental 
disorders and disabilities, including post-traumatic stress and trauma. In addition to those newly disabled 
because of the earthquake, persons already disabled have sometimes lost their support systems and 
whatever services they were receiving prior to the earthquake. People with disabilities will need external 
assistance geared towards long-term rehabilitation.  
 
The government of Pakistan (GOP) and several donors are assisting earthquake-affected households, 
including those with disabilities. The general assistance package for the earthquake-affected households 
includes assistance for housing reconstruction, cash compensation for death/injury, and temporary cash 
transfers for income support and livelihood recovery. In addition to the cash transfers and housing, the 
disabled in the earthquake affected areas need specialized rehabilitation services, and skills development 
and enhancement.  Furthermore, taking into account almost complete lack of know how of community 
based rehabilitation and inclusion of persons with disabilities, a range of stakeholders, including 
communities, families and civil society organizations need capacity building that would enable them to 
address rehabilitation, access and inclusion issues for persons with disabilities on a long term basis. 
 
The earthquake affected population, including persons with disabilities has been assisted by the 
Government, donors and non-governmental organizations. For instance, the Japanese Government has 
provided $5 million emergency JSDF funding some of which is expected to cover, inter alia, 
approximately four independent living centers (operated by Milestone Society, a Disabled Peoples 
Organization), and four Resource Centers for community based rehabilitation, all in the earthquake 
affected areas. In addition, some services for people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups are 
being provided through the health care system, charitable organizations, faith based organizations, 
Pakistani and international NGOs, and UN agencies. However, this assistance is thought to be well below 
the needs, especially in the case of persons with disabilities and particularly so in the rural areas.  
 
Page  2
The proposed project would support efforts to help improve the livelihoods of the most vulnerable victims 
of the earthquake affected areas. On December 23, 2005, the Board approved the recommendation 
contained in a memorandum entitled 
Pakistan: Proposed Trust Fund for Earthquake Disaster Recovery 
(R2005-0261; IDA/R2005-0248) and with resolution numbers IBRD 2005-0011 and IDA 2005-0008 
authorized the allocation of $5 million grant from the IBRD surplus fund to support disability for 
Pakistan뭩 earthquake emergency. This money was transferred to a Trust Fund [TF070449] and will be 
used to finance the proposed project. Additional donor grant financing could be solicited for co-financing 
of the project. Given that the Board already authorized its financing, this project does not require Board 
approval.  
 
The proposed project will be implemented as part of the Government뭩 earthquake reconstruction strategy 
and within the framework of the National Strategy and Plan of Action for Vulnerable Populations in 
Earthquake Affected Areas as well as the more general National Policy for Persons with Disabilities and 
Draft National Plan of Action for Persons with Disabilities. 
 
The project would closely coordinate activities with ERRA and other actors operating in the affected 
areas to strengthen possible synergies and avoid duplication and overlapping. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of this project is to improve the quality of life of, and reintegrate into society, people with 
disabilities and their families in the earthquake-affected areas in the short and long term. This objective 
will be achieved through access to rehabilitation and social welfare services, as well as skills development 
and inclusion, participation and empowerment.
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The project would finance (i) physical and psycho-social rehabilitation services, skills development, and 
mobility enhancement of people with disabilities and their families, and (ii) capacity building of service 
providers, NGOs, and disabled peoples organizations in providing services, raising public awareness on 
disability issues, and representing persons with disabilities. The project will be implemented by the 
Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF) through performance-based contracts with NGOs (e.g. RSPs) 
with capacity already on the ground in the affected areas and other providers with expertise in 
rehabilitation and other services for persons with disabilities.  
 
PPAF is a well-established APEX funding body for civil society with a proven track record of investing 
in and building capacity of its existing partner organizations (POs), which are the front line civil society 
organizations. In addition to its extensive pre-earthquake engagement in villages in the affected areas, 
PPAF was quick to respond to the earthquake tragedy, set up a disaster relief center, and undertake relief 
operations through those of its POs active in the affected areas.  
 
In line with the focus of the PPAF and its POs, this project will focus on rural areas and aims to fill a 
small part of the large vacuum of disability related services in rural earthquake affected areas. It 
complements the two JSDF funded initiatives by Milestone Society and Handicap International that focus 
on establishing service centers in the four largest urban centers of the affected region (Muzaffarabad, 
Bagh, and Rawalakot in AJK, and Balakot and Gari Habibullah in NWFP). The project will draw upon 
and utilize the expertise and services in the resource centers operated by Handicap International and the 
independent living centers operated by the Milestone Society 
 
Page  3
The project would have the following components
:
A. Provision of services for people with disabilities and their families  
 
At the start-up of the project, PPAF will conduct an assessment and diagnosis of the problems and local-
level response capacity. Based on this assessment, a Community Based Rehabilitation (CBR) package 
customized to the needs of the persons with disabilities in the affected areas will be developed by 
contracting in the special expertise needed to design the package. Particular attention will be paid to the 
feasibility of the package and its potential to be replicated and implemented with the organizations and 
resources at hand. As formulated in the package, the component would finance the following activities:   
 

Provision of community based physical and psycho-social rehabilitation
:
(i) identification 
and assessment of people with disabilities and development of individual rehabilitation plans, (ii) 
provision of psycho-social and physical therapy to persons with disabilities, 
 
(iii)
 
provision of 
assistive devices such as prosthetics (e.g. artificial limbs), orthotics (wheelchairs, crutches, etc.); 
 

Development and strengthening of earning opportunities 
for people with disabilities and their 
families to enhance livelihood opportunities: e.g. adult literacy, vocational training, skills 
development, and ensuring that children with disabilities regularly attend school; 

Enhancing mobility of people with disabilities
:
ensuring physical access to homes and public 
facilities through (i) technical assistance to the affected individuals and communities in making 
reconstructed homes and public buildings accessible, and (ii) civil works (building of ramps).  

Creating an enabling environment for people with disabilities. 
Training families in providing 
adequate care to disabled members. 
 
B. Capacity building for service providers and civil society organizations
.
This component would support capacity building of service providers, civil society organizations, NGOs, 
and 
disabled people뭩 organizations (DPOs), in: 

providing quality services to persons with disabilities and their families  

strengthening self-help groups 

raising public awareness on disability issues 

lobbying and representing persons with disabilities.  
The capacity building activities would include a range of rapid training activities, workshops, seminars, 
etc. 
 
C. Project management, monitoring, and evaluation  
 
This component would finance the project management and support functions undertaken by PPAF. 
PPAF would undertake a rapid needs assessment and data collection and, based on that, work with POs to 
develop proposals. PPAF would also undertake its standard functions such as proposal reviews, activity 
supervision, financial management, and reporting. The MIS being developed for the PPAF earthquake 
operation would be utilized for this project as well. 
 
OUTCOMES 
 

People with Disabilities would experience improved quality of life in their communities by being 
physically and socially rehabilitated, having access to health and education services, realizing 
higher incomes, and being mainstreamed into community social and economic life. 
 
Page  4

Services provider, non-government and civil society organizations would be able to provide 
services and mainstream disability issues into their regular work program on a sustainable basis. 
 
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS 
 
Based on the needs and capacity assessment, and the Community Based Rehabilitation package 
developed at the start of the project, select NGOs/other service providers will be invited to submit 
proposals and provided with technical assistance to develop those proposals. PPAF would undertake steps 
to enhance its own capacity and acquire the required expertise. PPAF standard procedures would be used 
to evaluate and monitor these proposals. Contracting would also follow standard procedures. An 
appropriate manual of service guidelines/criteria to complement PPAF standard procedures would be 
developed. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements would be developed as well. In order to reduce 
transaction costs for all the concerned, preparation and supervision of this project would be dovetailed to 
the extent possible with the other ongoing Bank funded PPAF projects. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
[Guideline:  Refer to section 5 of the PCN.  Which safeguard policies might apply to the project 
and in what ways?  What actions might be needed during project preparation to assess 
safeguard issues and prepare to mitigate them?]
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
SPECIAL FINANCING 
5 
 Total 
5 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Rasmus Heltberg 
Title: Economist 
Tel: (202) 473-5396 
Fax:  
Email: rheltberg@worldbank.org
 
