Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  08/21/2007 
Report No.:  AC2559
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Pakistan 
Project ID:  P099542 
Project Name:  PK Earthquake Disability 
Task Team Leader:  Rasmus Heltberg 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 20, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: May 21, 2007 
Managing Unit:  SASHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (60%);Health (40%) 
Theme:  Natural disaster management (P);Other social protection and risk management 
(P);Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (S);Injuries and non-communicable diseases 
(S);Other social development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
To improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families in areas 
affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improved 
physical and mental health, increased participation in social and economic life, and 
strengthened empowerment.   
 
3. Project Description 
Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment--ensure delivery of a range of 
services addressing disability and mental health needs of PWDs and their families while 
at the same time mobilizing and empowering them to take action on disability.   
 
Component 2: Capacity building for disability rehabilitation--build the capacity of the 
PPAF, its partner organizations, as well as service providers and civil society 
organizations to ensure rehabilitation services to the PWDs and their families.  
Page  2
Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation--finance the project 
management and support functions undertaken by the PPAF.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Areas in Northern Pakistan affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg (SAROQ) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
X
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
Page  3
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas 
 
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international 
aspects of the project, including the procedures to be followed, and the 
recommendations for dealing with the issue, been prepared 
N/A 
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  4
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Rasmus Heltberg 
08/21/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
 
 
Comments:   
