                                Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001584



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-57459)



                                  ON A

                           TRUST FUND GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION


                                 TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                  FOR A

                     EARTHQUAKE DISABILITY PROJECT



                               June 29, 2010




Social Protection Sector
Human Development Unit
South Asia Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
        (Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2010)

        Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKR)
                 PKR1.00 = US$ 0.01
                US$ 1.00 = PKR 85.45


                    FISCAL YEAR
                    July 1 ­ June 30


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AJK          Azad Jammu Kashmir
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CBR          Community-based rehabilitation
ERRA         Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency
JSDF         Japan Social Development Fund
MSWSE        Ministry of Social Welfare and Special Education
NGO          Non-government organization
PDO          Project development objective
PPAF         Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
PO           Partnership organization
PWD          People with disability
RIC          Resource Information Center



             Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
           Country Director: Yusupha B. Crookes
            Sector Manager: Mansoora Rashid
          Task Team Leader: Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan
          ICR Team Leader: Naoko Ohno
        ICR Primary Author: Hjalte Sederlof
                                              PAKISTAN
                                       Earthquake Disability Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 6
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 9
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 10
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 12
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 13
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 14
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 17
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 18
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 19
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 20
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 21
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 22
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 23
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          PK Earthquake
Country:                Pakistan                Project Name:
                                                                          Disability
Project ID:             P099542                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-57459
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          PAKISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 5.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.6M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.6M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/27/2006     Effectiveness:                                05/02/2007
Appraisal:            05/24/2006     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/21/2007     Mid-term Review:           05/15/2008         04/18/2008
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2008         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
                        Moderately                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                 40                  40
Other social services                                                  60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                 14                  14
Natural disaster management                                            29                  29
Other social development                                               14                  14
Other social protection and risk management                            29                  29
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                                14                  14

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Yusupha B. Crookes                    John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Mansoora Rashid                       Mansoora Rashid
Project Team Leader:       Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan        Rasmus Heltberg
ICR Team Leader:           Naoko Ohno
ICR Primary Author:        Hjalte S. A. Sederlof


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To improve the quality of life of people with disabilities and their families in areas
affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improved
physical and mental health, increased participation in social and economic life and
strengthened empowerment.



                                                   ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To expand the coverage, use and quality of social care and rehabilitation services for
people with disabilities in 34 Union Councils affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake,
by ensuring better mobility, improved physical and mental health, increased participation
in social and economic life and strengthened empowerment.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target         Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                An increase in the % of PWDs and experiencing mental health issues who
Indicator 1 : access services of appropriate quality and take part in social/community and/or
                economic life
                                                              Overall
                                                              increase of
                                                              25% of
                                                              beneficiaries
                                                              identified
                                                              through the      13% in community
Value                                                         survey           organizations; 64%
quantitative or zero                                          accessing        in community
Qualitative)                                                  appropriate      events;54% in other
                                                              services, and social events
                                                              50% of
                                                              beneficiaries
                                                              involved in
                                                              social and
                                                              economic life
Date achieved 06/07/2007                                      12/15/2007       12/31/2009
Comments
                Baseline set by an initial survey of PWDs, their access to services, and
(incl. %
                community attitudes conducted in at least 10% of households in 34 UCs
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                           Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                               Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                            documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   % of households covered by initial identification and needs assessment
Value
(quantitative   zero                      No target           10-15%         24%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2007                  12/31/2008          12/15/2007     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The baseline survey identified 11,302 beneficiaries
achievement)


                                               iii
                % of PDWs and people suffering from mental health problems who have an
Indicator 2 :
                agreed rehabilitation plan, by gender
Value
(quantitative   zero                        No target            25%             30%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2007                    12/31/2008           12/15/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The baseline survey identified 4.025 beneficiaries
achievement)
                % of individual rehabilitation plans completed, services provided by number and
Indicator 3 :
                type, broken down by gender
Value
(quantitative   zero                        No target            50%             56%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2007                    12/31/2008           12/15/2007      12/31/2009
                Referrals for visual, hearing, speech, physical, mental or intellectual help were
Comments
                provided (assistive devices including glasses hearing aids, laryngophones,
(incl. %
                crutches, walking sticks, toilet seats, orthotics, prosthetics, wheel chairs and
achievement)
                walkers)
                % of identified beneficiaries who participate in (i) community organizations, and
Indicator 4 : (ii) other social and economic events such as education, training, community
                events and employment
                                                                                 13% in community
Value                                                                            organization; 64%
(quantitative   zero                        No target            25%             in community
or Qualitative)                                                                  events; 54% in
                                                                                 other social events
Date achieved 06/07/2007                    12/31/2008           12/15/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The baseline survey identified 11,302 beneficiaries
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Reports from third party evaluators and technical partners
Value
(quantitative   Not applicable              No target                            Reports available
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/07/2007                    12/31/2008                           12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Level of expressed satisfaction with services provided/complaints from target
Indicator 6 :
                groups, by gender
                                                                                 Beneficiaries
Value
                                                                                 generally expressed
(quantitative   Not applicable              No target
                                                                                 satisfaction with
or Qualitative)
                                                                                 services provided.
Date achieved 06/07/2007                    12/31/2008                           12/31/2009
Comments
                No gender disaggregation
(incl. %



                                                iv
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Number of staff trained by gender and type of training
                                                                                100% PPAF and
                                                                                PO staff received
                                                                                one day refresher
                                                                100% of         course; 100% of
Value                                                           PPAF            CRWs received
(quantitative   Not applicable            No target             Islamabad, PO intensive five day
or Qualitative)                                                 and field staff training on CBR;
                                                                trained         70% received 21
                                                                                days training in
                                                                                medical aspects of
                                                                                disability
Date achieved 06/07/2007                  12/31/2008            12/15/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Project managed according to agreed schedule, in compliance with FM
Indicator 8 :
                safeguards, and MIS is functioning (in lieu of legal covenants)
                                                                               Project completed
                                                               Successful      within once
Value                                                          implementatio extended schedule;
(quantitative   Not applicable            No target            n of project as FM safeguards
or Qualitative)                                                defined by IO were complied
                                                               indicators      with; MIS
                                                                               functioning
Date achieved 06/07/2007                  12/31/2008           12/15/2007      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                            IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/21/2007     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory               2.20
                            Moderately                    Moderately
  2     06/18/2008                                                                          2.20
                          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  3     12/24/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                2.20
  4     06/15/2009     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory                4.63
  5     12/09/2009         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       4.63


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                 v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The earthquake in October, 2005, which devastated one of the poorest areas in
Pakistan, left some 70,000 people severely injured or affected by physical or mental
disorders or disabilities. Also those already disabled lost whatever formal support they
were receiving prior to the earthquake. In response to the earthquake, a reconstruction
and rehabilitation strategy, as well as a social protection strategy, was formulated by the
Government and supported by donors and NGOs. The social protection strategy
contained immediate and longer-term initiatives, and it included community-based
support and rehabilitation for addressing the particular problems of persons with
disabilities (PWD).

2.      The World Bank responded early, approving a US$400 million Emergency
Recovery Credit on December 15, 2005. In the immediate aftermath of the earthquake,
the Bank supported two emergency JSDF grants for disability aimed at establishing four
Resource and Information Centers (RIC) for community-based rehabilitation (CBR), and
four independent living centers located in or near the Resource and Information Centers.
The Earthquake Disability Project was a small (US$5 million) intervention to fill in some
of the gaps in service provision to the PWDs in the earthquake areas. The project
included piloting a community-based rehabilitation model which could potentially be
later introduced into the government disability program. The project supported a main
pillar of the CAS ­ improving lives and protection the vulnerable, and it continued a
long-standing trend in Bank assistance to Pakistan to act as a partner in disability with a
special focus on launching innovative and catalytic initiatives. The project was designed
to contribute to the longer-term objective of reducing poverty and vulnerability, and
improving the welfare of disadvantaged groups, of which PWDs may be the most
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized in Pakistani society.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

3.      The Project Development Objective (PDO) was "to improve the quality of life of
people with disabilities and their families in areas affected by the October 8, 2005
earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improved physical and mental health, increased
participation in social and economic life and strengthened empowerment."

4.   The following three outcome indicators were to measure the achievement of the
PDO:

          % of PWDs acknowledging an improvement in basic living conditions,
          mobility, mental health, social inclusion and attitudes towards PWDs;

          % improvement on mental health screening tests before and after psycho-social
          counseling; and



                                            1
          % of PWDs in project areas actively involved in economic and social life
          including education, training, employment, and community-based activities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

5.     The PDO was revised during the first supervision mission in December 2007, as
follows (the revised element is in italics):
         To expand the coverage, use and quality of social care and rehabilitation
         services for people with disabilities in 34 Union Councils affected by the
         October 8, 2005 earthquake, by ensuring better mobility, improved physical
         and mental health, increased participation in social and economic life and
         strengthened empowerment.

6.     At the same time, three PDO indicators were dropped and one PDO indicator was
introduced to allow for easier monitoring of progress towards the PDO throughout
implementation, as follows:
         An increase in the % of PWDs and those experiencing mental health issues who
         access services of appropriate quality and take part in social/community and/or
         economic life

7.      With the revision of the PDO, target values were introduced for the new PDO
indicator as well as for all the quantifiable indicators for the intermediate objectives (See
ICR Datasheet). The revisions had been discussed and agreed upon with Government,
and they were subsequently introduced in Implementation Status Report (ISR).

8.      The revision to the PDO and the targets were approved by the Regional Vice
President. The Project was being financed out of IBRD surplus funds that the Board had
previously authorized for the earthquake disaster recovery, including the allocation of a
US$5 million grant to support disability. These funds were transferred to a Trust Fund
for the Project. Therefore, the Project per se was not presented to the Board. Likewise,
any changes to the PDO or target values were addressed inside the Region based on
discussions with the Pakistan authorities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The main identified beneficiaries were to be PWDs in 34 of the worst affected
Union Councils (UCs) in the earthquake area. They were to benefit from rehabilitation
services provided through four RICs established under the project; from awareness-
raising among the general public; and from district level stakeholders who are better
equipped to organize and manage delivery of rehabilitation services. Other beneficiaries
were to be the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund (PPAF), which also served as the
project executing agency, as well as service providers and civil society organizations
offering rehabilitation services to PWDs.




                                             2
1.5 Original Components (as approved)

10.      The original project components were as follows:
      1) Provision of services, mobilization and empowerment (US$3.9 million). The
         component was to ensure the delivery of a range of services addressing disability
         and mental health needs of PWDs and their families; and mobilize and empower
         them to take action on disability. The component was to support community-
         based rehabilitation and rehabilitation through referrals to specialized service
         providers.
      2) Capacity building for disability rehabilitation (US$0.45 million). The component
         was to build capacity of PPAF, its partner organizations (key field-level
         organizations for mobilizing and empowering PWDs), and local service providers
         and civil society organizations to ensure rehabilitation services to the PWDs and
         their families.
      3) Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (US$0.40 million). The
         component was to finance project management and support functions undertaken
         by PPAF, including a small disability team to supervise all aspects of project
         implementation. The component was also to finance a baseline survey, as well as
         ex post surveys to assess project impact.

11.      The first component was the main one for achieving the PDO. Activities included
identifying PWDs, assessing their needs, and drawing up and implementing rehabilitation
plans. They also included a broad range of activities to mobilize and empower PWDs,
and raise community awareness about disability. The two other components served to
facilitate this activity. Achieving the PDO directly hinged on successful implementation
of component 1, and it, in turn, was dependent on the success in implementing
components 2 and 3.

1.6 Revised Components

12.      The project components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes

13.     The project had a Closing Date of December 31, 2008. However, significant
delays that had been incurred in preparing the project and subsequent delays in project
start-up (see Implementation in Section 2) made it necessary to extend the Closing Date
by a year ­ to December 31, 2009. By that time, the project was progressing well, and
the extension ensured that project targets would be fully achieved.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.    The project targeted PWDs, arguably the most vulnerable group affected by the
earthquake. The situation for PWDs was compounded by the absence of appropriate


                                             3
support mechanisms, and a lack of understanding of their unique challenges by the local
authorities and among the communities where they lived.

15.     Project design focused on putting in place essential institutions that would have a
direct impact on assisting the PWDs, and also on laying the groundwork for building a
sustainable community-based model for dealing with PWDs. The model emphasized
community-based rehabilitation, which is internationally recognized as a successful
approach for integrating PWDs into their daily living environment. An essential feature
of the approach was its inclusive nature ­ drawing together PWDs, their families,
community organizations and communities. This inclusiveness was applied in project
design.

16.     Much effort went into introducing the approach which was conceptually new to
the Government and contrasted with the Government's ongoing program being
implemented through the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (ERRA).
The focus of that program was on institution-based medical rehabilitation. The Bank
team advocated to include a broader definition of disability into the Government policy
and to expand the disability program to also include social interventions, such as raising
awareness, linking people to information and employment opportunities, and generally
fostering a more accepting attitude to PWDs. Reaching a consensus on this proposed
approach took some time during project preparation and delayed project start-up
significantly ­ the Grant was signed only some seventeen months after the earthquake
occurred and fifteen months after identification. However, in the end, the pilot was
considered compatible with the Government program and Government policy for PWDs;
if scaled up beyond the pilot phase, it was likely to form a complementary tool to
addressing PWD issues. Indeed, the efforts placed on getting Government stakeholders
on board, even if only partially, did allow the Government to familiarize itself with a
model that was both cutting-edge and appropriate for the situation. Notably, two
complementary JSDF grants were put in place earlier, in October 2006, and they were
important in launching relevant activities in anticipation of the project.

17.     The main operational project risk was mainly related to concerns about
implementation capacity in PPAF, its field level partner organizations and local service
providers. This risk was mitigated by introducing a second project component
specifically designed to build capacity for project implementation, as well as to establish
a sustainable provider network for the disabled. Support under component three also
focused on ensuring that the project agency PPAF would have the necessary technical
competence to work with partner organizations and local service providers as well as the
capacity to handle routine coordination functions.

2.2 Implementation

18.     Project implementation did not begin smoothly. This was partly understandable,
considering the circumstances that the project was facing: (i) a new approach was being
piloted; (ii) service providers were being trained as part of the implementation process;
and (iii) there were growing security risks in the catchment area. Additional problems
cropped up after effectiveness in June 2007, causing further delays, including:


                                            4
insufficient delineation of the respective roles and responsibilities of the PPAF and other
government actors in project implementation; administrative problems at the level of the
client, which delayed timely release of project funds; and inexperienced project
management. Therefore, the initial project implementation period was spent to address
issues; that normally would be resolved during project preparation. These included the
need to establish ­baselines, define the terms of reference of key technical assistance, and
coordinate the planning of training and procurement between PPAF and the JSDF-grants'
implementing agencies. In addition, the approaches that were being piloted turned out to
be more challenging than anticipated: staffing issues delayed training of community
rehabilitation workers; training programs turned out to be insufficient and sometimes
incorrectly focused; and contracting out technical assistance and procurement of
disability aids and assistive devices was more cumbersome than anticipated. As a result,
progress towards achieving the PDO was rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory at mid-term.
However, positive steps taken by Government and PPAF and through intensive
interventions by the Bank's mid-term review mission and subsequent supervision
missions helped the Government and the implementing agency to resolve the
bureaucratic issues and getting the project back on track. Subsequently, the rating for the
project was raised to Moderately Satisfactory, and to Satisfactory at the end of the
project.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

19.    The original project design included outcome indicators for the PDO, as well as a
mixture of outcome and output indicators for the project components. However, no
baseline data or targets were set. Likewise, the Annex on Key Performance indicators in
the Project Appraisal Document did not include a standard table on arrangements for
project monitoring. The absence of baselines and targets is regrettable, especially
considering the length of preparation and the importance of adequately monitoring
progress in a pilot project where the possibility of scaling up is an important
consideration.

20.     After project start-up and during the first supervision mission, the PDO was
adjusted so that emphasis was shifted from "improving quality of life" to an output
oriented "expanding coverage of services". A new PDO indicator was introduced to
reflect the changed in the PDO. The three original PDO indicators were dropped as
indicated in the Section above and target values were introduced for all intermediate
objectives, with the exception of qualitative indicators of the type "reports" and
"satisfaction" that were supposed to determine technical and professional quality and be
assessed in an evaluation report at the end of the project. Such a report was produced,
but it is more descriptive than analytical. As noted above, these changes were done as
part of the continuous dialogue between the Bank team and the client, with the approval
of Regional management.

21.    While the original indicators that were included were relevant, the adjustments
made early on during implementation strengthened the results framework, making it more
measurable, including setting targets for all indicators at the end of 2007. Furthermore, a
baseline survey was carried out in 2008 which served to inform about the project


                                             5
beneficiaries. An ex-post assessment was undertaken to assess project impact on
individuals and households, and to draw lessons, including about the replicability of the
model. The assessment noted that the project was very relevant to the needs of PWDs
and that their self-confidence and mobility improved, as evidenced by the level of overall
satisfaction with the project. The results of this assessment are incorporated in the
Section on Assessment of Outcomes and are detailed in Annex 5 of this ICR.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

22.     The Safeguard Policy on Projects in Disputed Areas was triggered as the proposed
project was to be carried out in AJK, an area over which India and Pakistan have been in
dispute since 1947. By financing the Grant, the Bank did not intend to make any
judgment as to the legal or any other status of any disputed territory or to prejudice the
final determination of the parties' claims. Overall, the triggering of this safeguard policy
did not in any way materialized in actual realization of risks associated with that trigger.

23.     The project was managed by PPAF, which has extensive experience and a good
track record in implementing Bank-funded projects, which this project drew on. The
Grant was small, and staff had the experience and was able to maintain up to date
accounting records and prepare financial management reports on time.

24.    The Project's financial statements were audited on an annual basis by independent
auditors and all audit reports were unqualified.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

25.     The project contributed to raising the awareness of disability issues which are
now more centrally embedded in the Government program and response. The allocation
of US$5 million into PPAF-III is evidence of that commitment. PPAF continues working
in the original project sites (Rawalakot and Mansehra) and also plans to collaborate with
Handicap International, Sight Savers, and other organizations in order to make these two
sites a model for disability interventions. PPAF has also initiated disability related
activities in Quetta, Karachi, Khairpur and Swabi, in addition to the earthquake-affected
areas. Moreover, special micro-credit interventions have been launched for PWDs.

26.     While the Bank has no plans at this time to further support disability work in
Pakistan, a rigorous assessment of the disability program, including PPAF activities is
recommended- notably follow-up on rehabilitation plans and rehabilitative services;
beneficiary participation in community and social events; and continued training of
service providers. . This would contribute to building up an effective medium/long-term
strategy for addressing PWD problems in Pakistan.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

27.    The project objective ­ both in its original, rather general form, and as revised
during implementation ­ remains relevant, as does the project design. It is in line with


                                             6
the CAS objectives and the country's development priorities to address poverty by
starting to address issues of one of the most vulnerable population groups ­ PWDs ­ not
only in terms of tackling immediate risks created by the earthquake, but also by taking
the opportunity to pilot a community-based model of support and integration of PWDs
into mainstream society that that could complement well the Government's other efforts
to address the issues of PWDs.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

28.   The PDO was focused on improving social care and rehabilitation services for
PWDs in the earthquake area. In addition, it had a broader purpose to pilot a community
model for supporting PWDs and facilitating their integration into mainstream society, a
model which could serve as an alternative to existing disability strategies in Pakistan.

29.    Drawing on the (revised) results framework discussed in the monitoring and
evaluation section, the project had set a target of reaching 25 percent of the beneficiary
population with services financed under the project. By the end of the project, 64 percent
had participated in social and economic events while 54 percent of PWFLs became
members of community organizations.

30.      Beyond engaging more than 60 percent of the beneficiary population in social and
economic life, the project also appears to have been successful in promoting a greater
understanding of PWDs among community members; and in putting into place
institutions that continue to support and empower PWDs, at least in the areas where the
project was active. Drawing on the findings in the ex post assessment and discussions
with PPAF officials, the following can be noted:

       The emphasis on rehabilitation and integration of PWDs, and awareness raising,
       appears to have started changing perceptions in the community about PWDs as
       potentially participating members rather that recipients of welfare;

       Likewise, the emphasis on rehabilitation has, according to beneficiaries,
       increased the self-confidence of PWDs; focus group discussions and interviews
       undertaken during the ex post assessment indicate that PWDs are increasingly
       ready to face the social challenges and barriers that impede their participation and
       inclusion: assistive devices have given greater mobility; trained attendants allow
       families to provide better care and a better home environment; and training has
       provided skills and knowledge that enhances PWDs opportunities to contribute
       economically;

       Broad stakeholder participation and extensive community focus is bringing about
       increased efforts to mainstream disability in the local development process;
       disability is coming to be seen as a cross-cutting development issue. The project
       has positively influenced policy and strategic thinking in PPAF and its partner
       organizations, who are looking to incorporating disability as a cross-cutting issue
       in their programs; and the presence of those partner organizations and community



                                            7
       rehabilitation workers give PWDs the comfort that there are people in close
       proximity who can support them in need.

       The focus on networking and provision of technical assistance to other
       rehabilitation services and civil organizations has resulted in better coordination
       and leveraging of complementarities between those active in supporting PWDs;
       this in turn is creating stronger referral networks for care and support, increased
       livelihood opportunities and, more generally, acting as a catalyst for the disability
       movement in the earthquake area. Within PPAF, the disability team that was
       established for the project is being maintained and strengthened. That team has
       developed their capacity on technical aspects of disability mainstreaming,
       program management, and partnership and alliance management. It will pursue
       PPAFs approach of working through and supporting partner organizations.

31.     On the basis of the above, the PDO was achieved. The project expanded the
coverage, use and quality of social care and rehabilitation services for people with
disabilities in 34 Union Councils affected by the October 8, 2005 earthquake, by ensuring
better mobility, improved physical and mental health, increased participation in social
and economic life, and strengthened empowerment. The project put in place a service
delivery network that provided satisfactory services to over 60 percent of eligible PWDs
(as attested to by beneficiaries interviewed in focus groups and through semi-structured
interviews). It must be highlighted that this project was implemented under difficult
circumstances, both in terms of security as well as terrain. Also, considering the small
size of the grant and the challenging environment in which innovations under the project
had to be introduced, the achievements made under this project were quite substantial. On
that basis, the outcome is rated satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

32.     During the initial phase of the Project, the project encountered a number of
problems that may have reduced its efficiency: (i) the delays in preparation reduced its
potential impact for PWDs encountering mental health issues; (ii) the lack of clarity on
relative responsibilities between the implementing agency and Government agencies also
dealing with disability issues, in part within the project and in part outside it; (iii) less
than ideal coordination between PPAF and its partner organizations and specialized
agencies; (iv) the absence of a baselines and targets; and (v) administrative problems that
held up disbursements. These issues were responsible for delays which occurred at
project start.

33.    While it is a long list of efficiency-reducing elements, most of these were
addressed successfully through the combined efforts of the Government, the
implementing agency and Bank teams, and efficiency improved significantly towards the
end of the project. Particular efficiency enhancing elements were improved PPAF
management of the disability program; and the learning experience that came with
implementing the project. Overall, efficiency is rated as moderate.




                                             8
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

34.     The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project was
relevant, focusing on the most vulnerable group coming out of the earthquake; it was able
to build institutions and provide appropriate help to PWDs in the area; and it piloted a
community-based model for supporting PWDs in a difficult environment with important
security risks. At the same time, efficiency was moderate - low early on, although
significantly better after mid-term; benefits to a sub-set of beneficiaries (those with
mental issues) may have been diluted due to some of the inefficiencies discussed above.
However, overall, the project achieved its objectives, met its targets and led to some
impressive results in terms of increased mobility, access, etc.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

35.    While the project may not be directly focused on poverty, gender or social
development, the target group, PWDs, tends to be among the poorest and most vulnerable
people. For them, the project provided essential services related to their condition and
raised their profile and understanding of their plight in society. This should have a
favorable impact on their wellbeing and their opportunities in society.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

36.     The operation has had a number of important institutional implications: three
important impacts: (i) it has brought a better contextual understanding of disability issues
and facilitated their introduction into mainstream poverty and care work, especially in
PPAF, which has maintained its disability team and is promoting disability considerations
in partner organizations; (ii) it has strengthened collaboration and coordination between
different stakeholders in the disability area; and (iii) it has helped pilot a community
based approach to supporting PWDs. While the network of service providers that was
established under the project still may be fragile, they do form a mutually reinforcing
community of providers of support for PWDs. Here again, PPAF, through its partnering
and its other activities in the poverty area, is able to provide a general support structure.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

37.    No unintended effects have been recorded.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

38.    The overall risk to the development outcomes is rated as moderate. The PPAF is
maintaining its disability team and mainstreaming disability work into its operations.
Furthermore, PPAF-III has allocated US$5 million for disability. The partnerships built
by PPAF are likely to continue to provide support to organizations and community
workers that have been trained and engaged in project implementation in various forms.



                                              9
In addition, much effort was put into improving communities' understanding of the issues
and building up service skills. In sum, the risk to the project's achievements in terms of
the establishment and capacity building of PPAF is low.

39.     On the other hand, the longer term sustainability of the institutions that have been
put into place under the project may be more questionable, although this project's
objectives were not explicitly designed to address longer-term policy reforms in the
disability area. Nonetheless, the formalization of achievements made under the project
does depend on the continued involvement of provincial and state welfare authorities, as
well as communities, and on maintaining public awareness. Likewise, the allocation of
sufficient resources for disability is crucial to maintain technical skills and provide
support for PWDs at the full range of services required.

40.    The overall risk to development outcome would be mitigated by a rigorous
assessment of the disability program the results of which could also serve as a basis for
future Government involvement in disability issues.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

41.      The Bank played a crucial role in drawing attention to the critical issue of
addressing disability in the earthquake zone in an innovative way, moving beyond
medical rehabilitation towards empowerment and integration of PWDs into their
community. The project preparation team put much effort into ensuring that there was
government support for the approach and compatibility with ongoing government
initiatives. This is reflected in the relatively long time it took to get the Grant signed.
Still, quality at entry was problematic: the team might reasonably have profited from the
extended preparation period (despite this being an emergency operation) to start up
baseline studies and set targets, prepare terms of reference for important technical
assistance and better define training needs, - all critical elements of the project design.
Problems that arose early on with regard to flow of funds might also have been
anticipated during preparation. Consequently, despite best intentions of the Bank team,
overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision

42.     Faced with a difficult project start-up, Bank teams worked constructively with the
Government and the implementing agency to solve the problems that arose during the
early stages of implementation. Key interventions which significantly improved project
performance included (i) changing the PDO to make it more measurable and realistic; (ii)
the setting up of a more effective results framework with baselines and targets; (iii) the
successful resolution of management and coordination issues. The Bank team worked
well with the implementing agency despite the challenging project environment. On the
basis of the above positive steps taken by the Bank team, Bank performance during
supervision is rated as satisfactory.


                                            10
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

43.     The overall rating of Bank performance is moderately satisfactory, based on the
ratings for quality at entry and supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance

44.      The Bank was proposing to introduce a new approach for identifying and assisting
PWDs, and the Government - the Ministry of Social Welfare and Special Education
(MSWSE); the Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Agency (ERRA) - was
initially cautious and understandably concerned about the potential conflict in the
"social" approach advocated by the Bank and the "medical" approach that had gained
ground in Pakistan. While those issues were ironed out, there was a nearly one-year
delay until signing and effectiveness of the Grant; and subsequently delays in the release
of funds to PPAF. Coordination issues between ERRAs management unit for disability
and PPAF also caused early problems. These issues did substantively and adversely
affect project implementation with most interventions being pushed into a relatively short
time span during the last year and a half of the project (which originally was envisaged as
a three year project). On balance, the rating for overall Government performance is
moderately unsatisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

45.     The implementing agency, PPAF, performed well in executing the standard
functions of a coordinating agency, and the disability team that was set up in PPAF to
supervise technical implementation, also performed well and introduced initiatives that
went beyond the strict definitions of the project, i.e. teacher training that turned out to be
an important means of addressing disability biases at the grassroots level. This is
particularly noteworthy, as the PPAF initially did not have expertise in disability. It is
also worth noting, that the approach that PPAF took ­ in engaging and providing training
and support to partner organizations and community bodies - was particularly important
in establishing institutions that remain and can be built upon post-project. On the basis of
above, the rating for the PPAF is satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

46.      The overall borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

47.      Some major lessons to be drawn from the project are the following:
      1) Teams preparing emergency projects need to consider how to strike the balance
         between emergency objectives and longer term institution-building approaches
         and policy reforms and whether combining these two objectives makes sense;
      2) Project preparation should allow implementation to begin immediately after
         effectiveness, particularly in emergency operations. Therefore, issues such as



                                             11
      financial flows, terms of reference for consultancies and procurement should be in
      place by project effectiveness;
   3) A results framework with measurable (and, where possible, quantifiable)
      indicators needs to be in place as well as a functioning monitoring system,
      including arrangements for a timely impact analysis;
   4) Project results that are immediately relevant to the beneficiaries, their families and
      communities, and the public at large, are an effective means of building and
      expanding support for disability programs and strengthen the impact of IEC
      programs;

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

48.  Comments received from the implementing agency were reviewed and to the
maximum extent incorporated.




                                            12
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                        millions)
 Provision of services,
                                         3.90             1.72               45%
 mobilization and empowerment
 Capacity building for disability
                                        0.45              1.96               436%
 rehabilitation
 Project management, monitoring
                                        0.40              0.94               238%
 and evaluation
              Total Baseline Cost       4.75              4.63               97%
 Physical Contingencies                 0.15
 Price Contingencies                    0.10
              Total Project Costs       5.00              4.63               93%
      Total Financing Required          5.00              4.63               93%
Source: PPAF


(b) Financing
                                                         Actual/Latest
                                   Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                  Estimate
                                     (USD mllions)                        Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions)
Borrower                                  0.00               0.00             --
Special Financing (IBRD surplus)          5.00               4.63            93%




                                             13
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Provision of services, mobilization, and empowerment (total actual
cost - US$1.72 million)

The component sought to ensure delivery of a range of services addressing disability and
mental health needs of PWDs and their families while at the same time mobilizing and
empowering them to take action on disability. The component was to provide service
delivery, mobilization and empowerment through a two-pronged strategy, comprising (a)
community-based rehabilitation and (b) rehabilitation through a referral to specialized
service providers (institutions). Community-based rehabilitation targeted the PWDs,
their families, and communities through social mobilization and other community-based
activities aimed at raising awareness and knowledge regarding disability, and inducing
and stimulating the demand for disability-focused services. Specialized institution-based
rehabilitation services were to be provided by specialized service providers/institutions
by referring the PWDs to those institutions and/or through arranging for those institutions
to deliver outreach services to the PWDs. The services were to include medical treatment,
physical rehabilitation, provision of prosthetics and other aids, psycho-social counseling,
and other specialized services.

Key activities under the component included: (i) identifying people with disabilities and
assessing their needs; (ii) formulating and implementing individual rehabilitation plans
for all PWDs in the project area; (iii) mobilizing, promoting social integration and
empowering PWDs through community-based information, education and
communication (IEC); and (iv) ensuring that services are of high quality.

As noted in the discussion on monitoring and evaluation, the project had not initially set
out quantified targets either for outputs or outcomes. These were introduced only after
project start-up.

Identification of PWDs was undertaken by means of two surveys i.e. one random and one
on carpet coverage basis, which were conducted from June to August 2008 in selected
Union Councils. The surveys covered some 24% of households and 19% of the
population. 10.2% of the covered population, or 11,302 individuals were identified as
PWD and of this number, 4,025 suffered from mental disabilities.

A total of 31 medical camps were held between November 2008 and August 2009 to
develop rehabilitation plans for participating PWDs. Some 56% of PWDs had completed
rehabilitation plans by the end of the project. A target of 50% had been set.

Rehabilitation services were provided to participating PWDs as follows:




                                           14
  Limitation      Number of                           Treatment                      Referrals
                    cases
Visual                              Glasses
                     3,587                                                             828
                                     2,759
Hearing/speech                    Hearing aids    Speech therapy    Laryngophones
                     2313                                                              355
                                     1,957                0               1
Physical                                                            Other devices
                                   Orthotics          Prosthetics   (wheelchairs,
                     3,409                                          crutches etc.)    1,144
                                     1,109               179             977
Psychological        1,389                               N/A                          1,389
Unknown               262                                N/A                           262

As a subset of PWDs, a specific intermediate outcome target had been set for people in
need of psychological rehabilitation. The target, 25% of that group of 4,025, was
exceeded, as 50% had completed rehabilitation plans by the end of the project.

With regard to community activities and social and economic events, by the end of the
project some 1,434 persons (13%) had joined community organizations; 64% had
participated in community events; and 54% in other social events aimed at creating
awareness and understanding about social inclusion and the rights of PWD. In addition,
8 awareness raising events about different disability issues had been held. The project
had set a participation rate of 25% of PWDs in community and other social activities.

For the component as a whole, outputs consistently exceeded target values.

Component 2: Capacity building for disability rehabilitation (total actual cost-
US$1.96 million)

The component aimed at building the capacity of the PPAF, its partner organizations, as
well as service providers and civil society organizations to ensure rehabilitation services
to the PWDs and their families. Capacity building/skills development was required since
neither the PPAF, nor its implementing POs had the competences and previous
experience in disability work. All PPAF and PO staff, as well as community
rehabilitation workers received one to five day training on CBR, and some 70 percent of
them also received training in medical aspects of disability. An additional important
aspect of the training component was its focus on teachers. Some 160 primary school
teachers were given hands-on experience of working with disabled children and develop
their capacity to identify disabilities in a child at early age; and develop their capacities in
order to draw them into mainstream society.

For the component, the target for training was met and, in a sense, even surpassed. The
training of teachers, which was a PPAF initiative, is viewed by PPAF as a very positive
initiative that begins to address the issue of disability from a strong grassroots level.

Component 3: Project management, monitoring, and evaluation (total actual cost-
US$0.94 million)


                                                 15
The component financed the project management and support functions undertaken by
the PPAF. A small disability team was established within the PPAF to supervise project
implementation. The PPAF also undertook standard functions such as proposal reviews,
activity supervision, procurement, financial management, and reporting. A management
Information System (MIS) was in place that provided the PPAF and the POs real-time
information on project progress. In order to ensure that beneficiaries themselves
participate in project monitoring, two advisory councils comprising PWDs were
established.

As a pilot project, impact and process evaluations were to be conducted with external
technical assistance. It was to have several elements: a survey-based impact evaluation
was to be conducted at the end of the project focusing on the overall impact, comparing
ex-post outcomes to the baseline data.

Intervention-based evaluation was to focus on specific interventions/treatments (such as
psychosocial counseling, physical rehabilitation, or empowerment). Pilot replicability
was also to be assessed, focusing in particular on organizational complexity, human
resource requirements, affordability and sustainability.

The project was completed according to the schedule that had been developed in the
context of the extension of the Closing Date, and an assessment was undertaken at the
end of the project. While the assessment covers all the main themes, it does so
qualitatively and at a fairly general level. It would be difficult to determine whether and
how the project might be scaled up based on that report. The essential elements of the
report are summarized in the section on Beneficiary Survey Results.




                                            16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                    17
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                Names                                   Title                    Unit
Lending
 Asif Ali                            Senior Procurement Specialist              SARPS
 Ismaila B. Ceesay                   Lead Financial Management Specialist       AFTFM
 Gertrude Cooper                     Program Assistant                          SASHD
 Rasmus Heltberg                     Sr. Technical Spec.                         SDV
 Qazi Azmat Isa                      Senior Rural Development Specialist        SASDA
 Shahnaz Kazi                        Senior Economist                           SASHN
 Charlotte Vuyiswa McClain-Nhlapo    Senior Operations Officer                  HDNSP
 Aleksandra Posarac                  Lead Human Development Economist           HDNSP
Supervision/ICR
 Asif Ali                            Senior Procurement Specialist              SARPS
 Khalid Bin Anjum                    Procurement Analyst                        SARPS
 Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan      Sr. PHN Specialist                         SASHN
 Susan E. Hirshberg                  Sr. Education Spec.                        AFTED
 Salma Majeed Jafar                  E T Consultant                             SASHD
 Riaz Mahmood                        Financial Management Analyst               SARFM
 Muhammad Iftikhar Malik             Sr. Social Protection Specialist           SASSP
 Cem Mete                            Senior Economist                           SASSP
 Daniel M. Mont                      Senior Poverty Specialist                  EASPR
 Rubina Geizla Quamber               Program Assistant                          SASHD
 Saeeda Sabah Rashid                 Financial Management Specialist            SARFM
 Furqan Ahmad Saleem                 Sr. Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
 Hjalte S. A. Sederlof               Consultant                                 SASSP
 Huma Ali Waheed                     Research Analyst                           SASED
Naoko Ohno                           Operations Officer                         SASHN
Maria Gracheva                       Sr. Operations Officer                     SASHD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                          USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                             15                        72.66
  FY07                                             24                       110.39
                            Total:                 39                       183.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                             21                        77.14
  FY09                                             39                       121.11
  FY10                                             11                        86.70
                            Total:                 71                       284.95



                                              18
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

An assessment of the project was conducted by a consultant at the end of the project.
Originally it was envisaged that the report would focus on beneficiary attitudes as well as
technical and professional quality of services. Instead, the study included focus group
discussions and semi-structured interviews with beneficiaries. It includes some
observations about operations, but it is mainly descriptive, rather than analytical. The
assessment draws the following major conclusions:

       The project was relevant to the needs of PWDs in the earthquake area and
       addressed their major functional needs; beneficiaries claimed that their lives had
       changed positively as their mobility increased, increasing mobility and raising
       self-confidence.

       Attitudes in the community are changing, becoming more positive towards PWDs
       and recognizing that disability is a cross-cutting issue and increasing social
       inclusion of PWDs in community activities.

       Mobility in terms of physical access still remains an important issue, aggravated
       by building designs and the mountainous environment.

       PPAF strategy of working through community-level organizations strengthened
       the impact of the project, as such organizations already had credibility in the
       community
Disability is increasingly seen as a cross-cutting issue to be mainstreamed in the work of
such organizations, as well as PPAF. The latter is already taking steps to do so, including
through continued support for organizations and individuals who already have been
trained under the project.

More generally, with disability increasingly mainstreamed in PPAF, and with the PPAF
strategy of working through established and credible partner organizations maintained,
the likelihood of sustainability of processes introduced under the project should be higher.
Sustainability is seen as a function of a critical mass of community level entities that are
aware of, trained and able to promote initiatives for PWDs.

While many of the PWDs require regular therapy, referral services become unaffordable;
this emphasizes the need for support mechanisms close to the community.




                                            19
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NA




                                   20
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Government did not submit a separate assessment of the project. The PPAF's final
quarterly report provides information on project status. The findings are incorporated
into Annex 2 of this ICR.




                                         21
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    22
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   Pakistan Poverty Alleviation Fund II ­ Financial Management Supervision Report;
   November, 2008

   Aide-Memoires 2005-2009

   Handicap International ­ ICM 5/2006

   Handicap International ­ PCR 11/2009

   ISR 12/2006 ­ 12/2009

   Milestone Society Progress Reports 10/2006-09/2009

   PAD Earthquake Disability project 05/2009

   PPAF Progress Reports 2008-2010

   PPAF (Consultants) ­ Evaluation Report




                                          23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 35033


                                                                                              PA KISTA N
                                                                       EARTH Q U A K E DI S A BI L I TY
                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS
                                                    HEAVILY AFFECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
                                                    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                                    PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                           65E                                                                70E                                   TAJIKISTAN                                                75E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CH I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHI N A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Ka
                                                                                                                                                                            h                                                    ra                  K2

                                                                                                                                                                     K   u sEpicenter                                                 ko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Mt. Godwin-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Austen)
                                                                                                                                                                u           7.6 Saturday, October 8 , 2005
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m(8,611 m)
                                                                                                                                                             nd
                                                                                                                                                                            5.6 & 5.8 Wednesday, October 19, 2005
                                          PAKISTAN                                                                                                       i          Chitral
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ind
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  us                Ra
                                                                                                             FED. CAPITAL                            H                                                                                                   ng
                                                                                                                TERRITORY                                                                                                                   Approximate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          e
 35N
                                                                                                               ISLAMABAD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   80

                                                                                                                                                               N . W . F. P.                                  60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        k                  Line of Control




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        m
                                                                                                                                                                                                         40




                                                                                                                                                                                                               km
                                                                                                                                                                    Saidu       Batagram




                                                                                                                                                                                                          km
                                                                                                                                                                                                    20




                                                                                                                                                                                                     k
                                                                                                                                                                                                     km
                                                                                                                                                                             Bala Kot
                                                                                                                            To                                            Mansehra                 Muzaffarabad                                      Kargil
                                                                                                                           Kabul                                         Abbottabad                                               Srinagar
                                                                                                                                             Peshawar                                 Bagh
                                                                                                                                                                                  Rawalakot                                         Jammu
                                                                                                                                                              ISLAMABAD                                                           and Kashmir
                                                                                                                                                 Kahat                                     Rawalpindi


                                                  AF GH AN I S TAN                                                              Bannu

                                                                                                                                                                                lum
                                                                                                                                                                            Jhe                    Gujrat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Gujranwala
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mandi




                                                                                                                                                                                      ab
                                                                                                                                    D.I. Khan                                       n
                                                                           To                                                                                                   Che
                                                                        Kandahar
                                                                                                                    Zhob                                                                                                     Lahore
                                                                                                                                                                                             Faisalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                               i
                                                                                                                                                                                             av
                                                                                   Chaman
                                                                                                         Z h ob                                          PUNJAB                          R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bhatinda          Ludhiana
                                                                                                                                                                                             Sahlwal

 30N                                                                                   Quetta
                                                                                                                           D.G. Khan                           Multan             tlej                                                               30N
                                                                                                                                                                                Su
                                                                                                                                                su
                                                                                                                                              Ind




  To
Kerman                                                                                                                                                          Bahawalpur
                            Nok Kundi
                                                          B A L O C H I S TA N
                                                                            Surab                                                               rt
                                                                                                                                             se
ISLAMIC                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                         e
REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                            INDIA
                                                                                                                           r




   OF To                                                                                                      Ranipur
                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                      h




                                        Panjgur
  IRAN Khash                                             ng
                                                          e




                                                                                                                    T




                                                       Ra
                                                                   i
                                                             s hk a




                                             ran
                                          Mak
                                                                                                  Moro
                                                           Ma




                         Turbat   Central                                                                SINDH
   To                                                                       Bela
 Kerman
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                         Jodhpur

                    Gwadar
                                    Pasni                                                             Hyderabad
 25N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25N

                                                                           Karachi                Thatta          Badin
                                                                                             us
                                                                                            Ind




This map was produced by
                                                                                                                   Rann of Kutch
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                 Arabian                    Sea
colors, denominations and                                                                                                                                                  0     50          100         150 200 Kilometers
any other information shown
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                                                 0             50                   100                150 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or
acceptance of such
boundaries.                                         65E                                                                        70E                                                                                                           75E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SEPTEMBER 2006
