                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                    Report No: 29944 KG

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IDA-31660 TF-22858)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION (US $9.55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                                 FOR A

                                   FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT




                                           September 16, 2004




Socially and Environmentally Sustainable Development (ECSSD)
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective May 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Kyrgyz Som (KGS)
                                       KGS 1 = US$ 0.023
                                        US$ 1 = KGS 43

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CC               Coordinating Committee
CNaR             Construction Norms and Regulations
DCA              Development Credit Agreement
DWR              Department of Water Resources of MOAWRPI
EIRR             Economic Internal Rate of Return
FAO/CP           Cooperative Program of the Food and Agriculture Organization
FEP              Flood Emergency Project
FMPA             Flood and Mudflow Protection Agency
GOK              Government of Kyrgyzstan
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IRP              Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
KDI              Kyrgyz Design Institute
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MEE              Ministry of Ecology and Emergencies
MIS              Management Information System
MOAWRPI          Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Processing Industry
MTR              Mid-Term Review
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPV              Net Present Value
OIP              On-Farm Irrigation Project
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
Reno mattress    A wire mesh cage filled with stones
SDR              Special Drawing Right
SNIP             Russian acronym for Construction Norms and Regulations (CNaR)



                             Vice President:      Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director:      Dennis de Tray
                            Sector Manager:       Joseph Goldberg
                         Task Team Leader:        Joop Stoutjesdijk

                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                       KYRGYZ FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                               Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             12
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                16
9. Partner Comments                                                               17
10. Additional Information                                                        19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             29
Annex 8. Studies undertaken under the Flood Emergency Project                     30
Annex 9. Works and Studies undertaken under the IRP relating to the FEP           32
Annex 10. Engineering - Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Infrastructure       34
Annex 11. Impact of Works                                                         41

Project ID: P062682                                                  Project Name: KYRGYZ FLOOD EMERGENCY
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk                                       TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 16, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: KYRGYZ FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT                           L/C/TF Number: IDA-31660; TF-22858
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Flood protection (69%); Irrigation and drainage (25%); Central
                            government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Natural disaster management (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/03/1998                                     Effective: 04/01/1999                04/07/1999
     Appraisal: 09/04/1998                                         MTR: 03/17/2000                  06/17/2000
      Approval: 01/26/1999                                      Closing: 09/30/2001                 03/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/DEPARTMENT OF WATER RESOURCES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Goldberg                                Joseph Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Joop Stoutjesdijk                              Joop Stoutjesdijk
ICR Primary Author:             FAO


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The project's objective was "to improve and secure the sustainability of infrastructure facilities,
which, if unattended, could lead to loss of human life and economic losses". The PAD further specified
that the project was of an emergency nature and that the aim was to rehabilitate or reconstruct damaged
flood protection infrastructure along rivers and irrigation infrastructure to prevent losses which could be
expected from a river changing its course and eroding inhabited river banks during another flood or from an
irrigation headworks arrangement that would fail to divert water in adequate quantities and at the right time
to irrigation areas. The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) synthesized the objective of the project as
"to enhance the protection of population and infrastructure against flooding".

         In the early summer of 1998 several major rivers in southern Kyrgyzstan experienced their greatest
flood levels since records began in 1927. Flood flows in rivers carried high bedloads of stones and other
material which bombarded and severely eroded river banks supporting human settlements. The floods
caused significant damage and exposed both the weakness of existing flood protection works and the
vulnerability of the population to the effects of flood flows in rivers fed by snow-melt, glaciers, and
unpredictable rains. About 1,000 houses, and public buildings and infrastructure were damaged or
destroyed by overtopping of the Kugart River defenses in Suzak Raion. Villages along other rivers in the
region were also affected. The total value of the damages was estimated by government up to US $75
million. Similarly, irrigation infrastructure such as intake works, spurs, and embankments protecting
conveyance canals were either completely destroyed or badly damaged. Headworks on the Shakhimardan
and Sokh Rivers were devastated by high releases of water from an upstream lake and reservoir
respectively. Irrigation canals were silted, blocked by landslides and eroded by overtopping.

         The Government of Kyrgyzstan (GOK), with the assistance of several donors, undertook
emergency relief, started resettling flood victims, and took emergency remedial works on levees and
irrigation intakes to ensure summer irrigation as much as possible for 1998. But remedial works could, of
necessity, only assure temporary repair. IDA assisted by modifying the allocation of funds under its
ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP) to provide up to US $4 million for post-flood works to
reconstruct the most severely damaged levee sections along the Kugart River and clean the Kugart River of
sediment close to Suzak. In addition, IRP funds allowed the repair of headworks at 4 irrigation schemes,
namely Aravan, Mailuu-Suu, Kara Ungur, and Kugart (see Annex 9 for list of works and studies
completed under IRP). About US $3 million of IRP funds were used.

         Other locations were in need of larger-scale reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Flood
Emergency Project (FEP; US $10 million at approval) was prepared at the direct request of GOK and was
formulated on the basis of studies conducted under IRP. Project preparation was carried out in close
cooperation with the Asian Development Bank (ADB). It was agreed at an early stage that IDA would
focus on water-related infrastructure, while the ADB would provide US $5 million for the rehabilitation of
flood-damaged public infrastructure such as roads, bridges, and electricity lines in Jalal-Abad and Osh
Oblasts. ADB's Flood Emergency Rehabilitation Project was implemented from 1999 to 2003.

         The FEP objective met the needs of the situation, was defined quite specifically in the PAD and has
remained unaltered. Serious floods occur in any year in the Kyrgyz Republic, and indeed, large flash flows
have been recorded in the same rivers since 1998, but thankfully without any significant damage. The
project has benefitted a region which is the most densely populated of Kyrgyzstan with high incidence of



                                                      - 2 -

poverty. It was therefore in consonance with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and remains so.
A key priority of recent Country Assistance Strategies, including the current one that supports the National
Poverty Reduction Strategy (NPRS), is to promote sustainable economic growth that will result in poverty
reduction. Within this is the need to help stem deterioration in key infrastructure.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

          The project had two components of which the first was sub-divided as follows:

(a)       Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of River Protection and Irrigation Infrastructure, and
Establishment of a Flood Warning System (Indicative cost at appraisal - US $13.43 million; of which
US $9.40 million from IDA):

          (i)    River Embankments (US $8.97 million; of which US $6.28 million from IDA)
                 - 8.8 km along 5 rivers;
          (ii)   Deflector Spurs (US $1.66 million; of which US $1.16 million from IDA)
                 - 23 spurs, typically 100 m long;
          (iii) Irrigation Infrastructure ­ Works Inside River Beds (US $2.33 million; of which US
                 $1.63 million from IDA)
                 - works on 12 irrigation schemes, including 19 intake and protection spurs;
                 - repairs to protection works of 6 km of conveyance canal, and other minor works;
          (iv)   Irrigation Infrastructure ­ Works Outside River Beds (US $0.23 million; of which US
                 $0.16 million from IDA)
                 - urgent works in 4 schemes, including drain overpass reconstruction and spillway
                 - reconstruction on debris collection dams;
          (v)    River Gauging Stations and Flood Warning System (US $0.24 million; of which US
                 $0.17 million from IDA)
                 - along the Kugart river.

(b)       Project Management and Implementation Support (US $0.70 million; of which US $0.60
million from IDA)
                 - strengthening of PIU of IRP, with staff and equipment, technical assistance for design,
                   construction supervision, staff training, and audits.

          The project was circumscribed to Jalal-Abad and Osh Oblasts. In 2000, Osh Oblast was split into
Osh and Batken Oblasts. The project was designed as a two-year program of an emergency nature. It
would be implemented by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) already established under the IRP in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR; later transformed into the Ministry of
Agriculture, Water Resources, and Processing Industry - MOAWRPI). The list of works to be undertaken
was identified in preliminary form in the PAD, but the PAD stressed that other works could be included
later if identified as of higher priority and agreed by IDA. Designs were to be based on existing flood
protection norms of 1:200 year and 1:100 year protection for settlements and irrigation infrastructure
respectively. An inter-ministerial Coordinating Committee (CC), which would also include the Deputy
Governors of the project oblasts, was to oversee project implementation on behalf of GOK.




                                                       - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

         The components were not formally revised, but few changes were made to some of the
sub-components. During project implementation design engineers, assisted by an international consultant,
found that longitudinal embankments were generally more suited to stream geometry than deflector spurs,
which were used a lot during the Soviet times. Irrigation works outside river beds and some of the
proposed works inside river beds were dropped at the request of GOK in 2001, because reconstruction of
the irrigation headworks on the Sokh and Shakhimardan Rivers, initially planned to be implemented under
the modified IRP, and additional river protection works were judged to be of greater priority. Repairs to
some of the smaller irrigation works were carried out by the Department of Water Resources and by the
IRP (see also Chapter 4).

         The project became effective on April 7, 1999. The Credit was extended twice: first by 2 years to
September 2003 and then to March 2004. During the initial design works it became clear that the design
and construction methods typically used in the country would not provide durable structures. Emphasis
was therefore not just given to rebuilding damaged infrastructure, but also on designing and constructing
more durable and sustainable infrastructure. As such, it became a full-fledged infrastructure investment
project. As a result of this and other factors (see Section 4.2 below), the time originally allowed for
completion of the project - covering only two autumn/winter construction seasons - was unrealistically
short. The project could have been completed by September 2003, where it not for very early and above
average floods during the spring and summer of 2003. In January 2003 there was a minor reallocation of
funds to Works from the Consulting Services and Training and Unallocated Categories.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

         There was no formal assessment of the Quality at Entry (QAE) by a QAG Panel. The Quality at
Entry has been rated satisfactory by the ICR team. A few comments are given that would have improved
the Quality at Entry.

         The project was prepared speedily with substantial GOK input and, realistically, allowed flexibility
on choice of sub-projects. However, in hindsight it was unrealistic to expect completion of implementation
within 2 years. The necessity of halting works during flood periods was not mentioned in the PAD.

         The specified indicators for measuring project success were rather general. Indicators for
cost-effectiveness were not included.

         The Bank's safeguard policies were observed. The project involved works on major rivers
bordering, or flowing, into Uzbekistan, subject to international agreements. Notification of project
proposals for IRP (involving many of the same rivers) had previously been transmitted to the Government
of Uzbekistan (GOU) through the Bank and, for FEP, it was judged that notification was not required since
the project would not affect the quantity or quality of water flowing into Uzbekistan. Although more
broader of an issue, the implications of water management arrangements (especially dams managed by
GOU upstream of proposed works) and the logistical implications of operating close to national borders
could have been addressed more explicitly in the PAD.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

        Traditional practices of flood protection in the Kyrgyz Republic tended to rely heavily on both
concrete lining and random placement of large rocks at vulnerable locations, which have proven not to be
very durable methods. The project benefitted from an Austrian Shilling 12 million (about US $750,000)
grant to cofinance the project. These funds were used to procure Reno mattresses, where conditions are
suitable, and provide short-term international technical assistance (TA). This helped to overcome the initial
resistance of staff of the Department of Water Resources (DWR) and Kyrgyz Design Institute (KDI) to use
Reno mattresses, as it was a largely unknown construction material in Kyrgyzstan. The introduction of
Reno mattresses also supported the creation of local manufacturing capacity for the mesh. The Reno
mattress is a very appropriate technology for Kyrgyzstan, since it requires a significant labor force for
assembly and uses locally available stone, thus reducing transport costs and demand on quarry stocks of
high quality rock. In economic and environmental terms, use of Reno mattresses involves imports of
zinc-coated wire and of geotextile, local stone and labor, in place of imports of transport/handling
machinery and of fuel and local rock. However, the same TA introduced optimization on the use of rock
for levee protection by new methods of special placement, the introduction of rock aprons at the toe of
levees, and the use of filter layers to protect the foundation material. The TA was able to introduce the
necessary designs without having to resort to modeling in hydraulic laboratories, for which an allocation
was provided in the PAD.

       The project has achieved the following (see Annex 11 for detailed assessment of impact):

            l security against flood damage increased for 3 raion centers (Aravan-Sai, Kara-Kuldja, and
                 Suzak), located along three rivers;
            l security against flood damage increased for 24 villages, located along six river systems
                 (including one that also has Suzak along its banks);
            l about 40,000 people living in flood zones protected directly;
            l over 70,000 people (living outside the immediate flood zone) have benefitted indirectly
                 from the protection of their settlements, as infrastructure is safer;
            l eight irrigation schemes, with a total command area over 34,300 ha, have secured water
                 supply. In six of these, intake and canal protection works have obviated the need for
                 continuing temporary training works using bulldozers;
            l river gauging stations and flood warning systems are built on four rivers;
            l small areas of usable amenity or agricultural land have been gained behind embankments;
            l new roads (on top of the levees) have been constructed;
            l one bridge has been built; and
            l new design and construction methods have been introduced and staff have been trained.


       The works were carried out to high engineering standards, at least-cost for those standards. The cost
per km was considerably lower than estimated at appraisal, but higher than the cost of other past and recent
reconstruction/rehabilitation works of lower engineering standards. Further detailed study would be
required to establish the optimum combination of cost and effectiveness of protection. The overall
environmental impact of the flood control and irrigation works is positive. Precautions to avoid any
negative environmental impact of construction works at each sub-project site have been applied constantly
during design and implementation.



                                                       - 5 -

       Approximately 12.1 km (or just under half) of the embankments built under FEP were lined with
Reno mattresses placed over geotextile. Mattresses bought from the Austrian funds were used for about
5.4 km of these embankments in the Tar and Yassy sub-projects. So far, the Reno mattresses have shown
good durability and it may be that considerable cost savings can be achieved by their use in future
embankment protection elsewhere in Kyrgyzstan. Other embankments were protected by rocks, put in
place by cranes (special placement method). This method may also yield long-term cost savings through
greater durability and smaller repair requirements. Special rock placement has already been adopted by the
Ministry of Ecology and Emergencies (MEE).

       The sustainability of the works completed by the project is thought to be highly likely. The expected
life of the embankments is 40-50 years. Maintenance requirements are expected to be significantly lower
than for embankments previously constructed, which is a valuable contribution since budgetary funds have
proved to be limited and not always immediately available, when needed.

       The project has trained significant numbers of contractor personnel in improved techniques for levee
construction, either through mattresses or rock placement. Many of the contractors' staff and management
have gained experience in good standards of construction work as well. There were ancillary benefits of
the project for local populations in the settlements where project works were carried out. It has been
estimated that about 3,000 local laborers have been involved for extended periods during construction, and
the local employment for construction works under the project has been estimated at about 400 man-years.

       The project has also boosted the professional expertise of members of the Kyrgyz Design Institute
(KDI; the former design institute for hydraulic works during the Soviet period) and the Department of
Water Resources (DWR). After the initial training by the international consultant, all designs have been
prepared satisfactorily by the KDI. At the instigation of the project, the major institutional issue for the
maintenance of embankments, identified at appraisal, has been addressed. A new agency, the Flood and
Mudflow Protection Agency (FMPA), was set up in DWR and is now responsible for monitoring and
maintenance of some 460 km of river protection embankments. This capability benefits the whole country,
but particularly the south, where flooding problems are most severe.

       Many of the project's achievements are beyond the original objectives set for the project. Were it not
for the long implementation period (more than double than expected at appraisal), the project outcome
could have been rated highly satisfactory in view of the additional benefits over and above those envisaged
at appraisal and the likely sustainability of the project achievements. Taking into account the fact that the
closing date was extended twice, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(a)    Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of River Protection and Irrigation Infrastructure, and
Establishment of a Flood Warning System (US $13.5 million estimated at appraisal; Actual financing
was US $12.1 million)

       Protection Levees. The project has succeeded in rehabilitating or constructing 27.4 km of river
protection embankment, compared with 8.8 km of river embankment and 2.3 km of deflector spurs planned
in the PAD. The project also financed the construction of a main road bridge across the Kugart River in
Suzak, to replace the old one that was placed too low and would not allow the passing of the design flood.
The extent of the structures repaired and/or reconstructed was thus by far superior to what was envisaged
at the beginning of the project. A number of additions and changes to the original proposals in the PAD



                                                       - 6 -

were made by the implementing agency and its PIU following further studies on the sites and on the local
risk conditions, which determined that high population numbers were at major risk of flooding if protection
works would not be rehabilitated or reconstructed (see Table below). All changes were approved by
DWR's technical board, the project's Coordination Committee (CC), and the IDA Task Team. Savings,
relative to the appraisal estimate, were possible through the introduction of a more effective engineering
approach, while the original cost estimates developed by government at the time of appraisal have turned
out to be by far too high. In addition, tender prices have generally been very low.

 River            PAD (km)       Actual (km)      Comments
 Kara Darya           3.5              0.5        Agreement reached with Andijan Dam staff to
                                                  provide better flood management required
                                                  protection of only few of the weakest levee
                                                  sections.
 Kara Kuldja          1.0              2.9       Detailed surveys revealed need for longer levees
                                                 and some spurs to protect entire village.
 Tar                  1.3              2.7       Need for longer levees to protect entire village.
 Sokh                 1.0              3.7       Need for longer levees to protect entire village and
                                                 surrounding agricultural lands.
 Yassy                2.0              2.7       Need for longer levees to protect entire village.
 Kugart                                5.3       Works carried out under IRP were insufficient to
                                                 provide full protection of Suzak Town and nearby
                                                 villages.
 Kara Jigach                           2.5       Need for flood protection of four villages was
 plus two                                        identified as a priority during project
 tributaries                                     implementation.
 Aravan Sai                            7.1       River flowing through Aravan Town was identified
                                                 during implementation as a danger for flooding of
                                                 large sections of the town.
 TOTAL                8.8             27.4

       Design was satisfactory in that, although simple and schematic, it provided the contractors with all
the main relevant information needed to carry out the work. Local authorities were consulted during the
design process. According to the local norms, design Risk Category III was assigned to populated areas,
whereas Risk Category IV was assigned to irrigation structures. For Risk Category III the hydraulic
calculations were performed for a design river discharge having a 3 percent annual probability of
exceedance and a freeboard of 0.8 m. A verification was then carried out for the river discharge having a
0.5 percent annual probability of exceedance. The 0.8 m freeboard is rather high for flood protection
works, but considering the uncertainty in long-term flood data, seems appropriate. For Risk Category IV
similar hydraulic calculations were performed for probabilities of 5 percent and 1 percent respectively.
Embankments were typically 3 m to 4.8 m high and lined with two layers of rock with garretting, or Reno
mattresses over geotextile, and provided with an apron 6 m wide or more. The stability of the bank
protection structures, as designed, is believed to be highly satisfactory, consistent with the
recommendations of the international consultant and in line with the expectations of the PAD and with the
requirements of the local norms. In 2002-2003 large floods occurred in some of the rivers where protection
works were completed, which, at least at two different locations, reportedly came close to the 0.5 percent
probability river discharge, but no damage was reported at the completed structures. Some damage
occurred at locations where the construction works were still ongoing, which required contractors to redo
some of the works.



                                                      - 7 -

       Irrigation Abstraction Structures. At PAD stage, it was envisaged that the project would carry out
rehabilitation works at 16 abstraction works, commanding an irrigation area of almost 39,000 ha. The
actual implementation under the project was limited to six abstraction works that were identified and two
headworks that were not included in the PAD, but were identified for reconstruction using IRP funds. The
total command area of the eight systems is over 34,300 ha or 88 percent of the target.

       The six systems that the project financed are all rehabilitations inside the river bed and are:
Zernovoi, and Katta-Tegermen (both in Jalal-Abad Oblast) and Uzgen, Atamkul, Naiman, and Savai (in
Osh Oblast). The two headworks are Sokh and Shakhimardan (both in Batken Oblast). The systems that
were not included are: Oktiabrski, Stari-Ukari, and Shaidan Branch (in Jalal-Abad Oblast) and
Sary-Kamysh, Ylai-Talaa, and Mochan (in Osh Oblast) [all inside the river bed works]; and Masy and
Shaidan Right Bank (in Jalal-Abad Oblast) and Kyrgyz-Ata and Tuya-Muyun (in Osh Oblast) [all outside
the river bed works]. Thus the project did not carry out any of the outside the river bed works. These
works were actually not directly related to river floods, and have been tackled by DWR and IRP as
maintenance works.

       The project has constructed about 3 km of intake and protection spurs or embankments, as well as
other works on the abstraction works, for the six systems that were identified at appraisal. It also carried
out major repairs and protection of two large headworks. Besides major concrete repair works on
especially the aprons, the project financed the protection of the right and left downstream banks with either
Reno mattresses, quarry rock, or concrete. The two headworks serve 13,000 ha in two of the poorest parts
of the country. They are now secure against 1:100 year floods. Some damage was reported at the
Shakhimardan headworks after the floods of June 2002, including partial damage to the Reno mattresses,
caused by a delay in opening the Markovsky gate. The damage to the structure was repaired promptly, and
the operational rules of the structure were updated. All but one of the eight contracts were completed by
May 2001, in time for the 2001 irrigation season. Zernovoi Kugart was completed in October 2002. All
irrigation intakes have been rehabilitated satisfactory and fulfill the goals of the project, and abstraction of
water is again guaranteed, while maintenance needs have reduced considerably, including the continuous
need during irrigation seasons for temporary training works to guide river water to the intakes.
       Gauging Stations and Warning Systems. Designs were prepared for the reconstruction of a gauging
station on each of four major rivers (Kugart, Tar, Yassy, and Kara Kuldja). Each of them will be equipped
with a flood warning system based on automatic water level measurements and transmission of readings by
radio and E-Mail. These systems are very much needed in order to alert several villages to flood risks. In
addition, new and more reliable flow measurements will allow further verification of the level of risk at
each location. As part of the contract, the contractor will provide training to the Hydromet operators. The
construction contract started after the 2002/03 winter and the expected completion date for all the works
was July 2004, but an extension was recently made through December 2004. It was always envisaged that
part of the payments for these works had to be made after the Credit closure from funds that were paid by
IDA retroactively after the increase of disbursement percentages and that remained in a PIU account.
Therefore payments after March 31, 2004 have been made from these funds, and it is expected that the
works will be completed as planned by the end of the year. Although Ministry of Finance was not very
pleased with the need for the contract extension through the end of the year, they have nevertheless given
their support to the need to complete the works.

         Contract Completion Delays. Many contracts suffered delays in implementation, which has been
the main weakness under the project. A major reason was initially the poor counterpart financing, until
IDA agreed to raise its disbursement percentage for works from 70 to 85 percent in 2001. The
under-estimate of construction periods at design stage by PIU and KDI, especially related to not


                                                      - 8 -

considering the need for construction work stoppages during the flood season, also affected many contracts.
Other reasons for delays have been: (i) the serious floods of 2002 and 2003 which swept away or damaged
some half-completed works and submerged contractors' equipment; (ii) civil and political disturbances in
Aksi, Kara Kuldja and Kadamjay Raions that disrupted several contracts; (iii) border and customs
obstacles to people and freight (including especially rock and Reno mattresses) after Uzbekistan closed its
borders; and (iv) a generally weak construction sector after Independence because of shortage of works,
which resulted in limited capacity and experience for work planning and financing when the project started,
and required contractors to work in a poorly developed insurance, legal, and banking environment.

         Construction Supervision. Construction supervision has generally been adequate. The PIU
employed construction managers in both Osh and Jalal-Abad Oblasts, who visited each site regularly to
provide supervision and advice, and at least one resident inspector for every sub-project. Quality control
consisted of a program of in-situ and laboratory tests, and visual and topographic inspections. The
engineers from KDI also provided regular supervision. All sub-projects were registered in the oblast
offices of the State Architecture Construction Control Agency prior to the start of construction and its staff
provided supervision as well.

         Construction was accomplished according to acceptable standards. In very few cases an excess of
small stones was observed in the rock protection, but in general the special placement of stones was
performed adequately. The Reno mattresses have generally been well built, filled by hand, and connected
to each other, and although the contractors did not have previous experience in this kind of work, no
specific problems were reported by them or by the PIU. In addition to routine inspection, materials testing
and supervision, training was given to those contractors who needed it and exchange site visits were also
arranged.

         Environmental Aspects. Rock and gabion protection have valuable characteristics regarding the
environment. They maintain the original permeability of the natural material of the river, do not induce the
formation of ponding water under the structure, and have no negative effect on shallow aquifers. The
structures are easily integrated into the river ecology and surrounding landscape and are thus aesthetically
acceptable.

         Technicians from the oblast offices of the Ministry of Environment and Emergency made regular
visits to the construction sites to inspect the contractor's performance in adhering to the environmental
conditions specified in the contract. In addition, the contractors were obliged to keep records in accordance
with Government regulations. The requirements are perceived as rigorous, and there has been adequate
environmental monitoring of construction activities and there are no negative impacts of the project on the
environment.

         This component is rated satisfactory.

(b) Project Management and Implementation Support (US $0.7 million estimated at appraisal;
Actual financing was US $0.60 million)

        The project used an existing Project Implementation Unit that had been established for the
implementation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. Under this component, the PIU was fully staffed in
accordance with the DCA, comprising up to 13 members during the peak period of the project when most
sub-projects were under construction, mainly working in the field on construction supervision. Adequate
vehicles and equipment were purchased for PIU operations. Some funds were used to purchase computers



                                                       - 9 -

and vehicles for the Flood and Mudflow Protection Agency. Technical assistance and training did not have
to be financed by IDA to the extent envisaged under the PAD. The Austrian Grant financed a short-term
international consultant to assist with the design of protection works with Reno mattresses and special
placing of rocks. The Kyrgyz Design Institute was responsible for the investigations, surveys, and designs
of all sub-projects, and the river gauging stations and early warning systems. There was no perceived need
for modelling studies. A study tour to Italy took place during the last year of project implementation.

       The Ministry of Finance has been critical at times that the PIU was implementing the project too
slowly. There is some truth in this, but as indicated this was to a large extent caused by the relatively weak
local contracting industry, and under-estimation of the implementation periods by the design engineers.
Many contractors took longer than envisaged to complete contracts, but the end result has always been
fully satisfactory and quality works. Overall, project management was effective and achieved at modest
cost. This component is also rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         The PAD included neither an evaluation of the expected cost-effectiveness of river embankments
nor cost-effectiveness indicators for monitoring. Instead, alternative engineering options for each
sub-project were costed and compared, before a decision was made on the option to be implemented for a
particular sub-project.

         The average cost of protection per household under FEP is about US $1,600 compared with an
estimated cost of resettlement in new housing of US $5-6,000 per household. For two sub-projects the
embankment cost exceeded resettlement costs, but the additional cost could be justified by the protection
afforded to commercial/industrial and water supply infrastructure and important road access. The cost per
household at two protected settlements was well under US $1,000.

         The Ministry of Ecology and Emergencies (MEE) and FMPA have both carried out embankment
strengthening with rock at lower cost than FEP, using designs which use smaller quantities of rock (MEE
reckons that their process uses 24 percent less rock than FEP). Not enough time has passed to carry out a
detailed comparison of expected cost-effectiveness over time. Both MEE and FMPA acknowledge that
embankments rebuilt to their designs will not last as long as those constructed by FEP. Also, both
organizations expect their own constructions to require more maintenance. In addition, such embankments
may provide a lesser level of security. Total cost comparisons between FEP and MEE embankments
indicate that, at a discount rate of 10 percent, annualized investment and maintenance costs could be
similar for MEE and FEP embankments (see Annex 3). It is recommended that the situation is monitored
and that a thorough evaluation of different standards of embankment construction is carried out after 10
years or so. The issue of value-for-money protection merits further investigation, particularly since the
protection of settlements depends on the extent as well as the quality of the embankments which can be
afforded.

         The PAD calculated EIRRs for three of the planned irrigation schemes, giving results of 21 percent
for the smallest to 104 percent for the largest. Assumptions made were that yields would rise on average
20 percent as a result of the project. There has been no monitoring of yield levels or detailed recording of
water deliveries on any of the schemes and hence no objective assessment of benefits can be made beyond
the saving of costs for river training. The net present value of these costs is estimated at US $0.55 million
against a capital cost of works of slightly over US $2 million. The remaining capital cost of US $57 per ha
would be covered by an annual yield increase of only 1 to 2 percent. As this is certainly the case, it is
deduced that increased reliability of water supply will have generated a value of benefits exceeding by far



                                                     - 10 -

the costs of the works.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

       The PAD included no financial analysis beyond general statements on maintenance requirements.
Financially, as economically, the net benefits of FEP depend upon the eventual performance of the
embankments. However, the repayment conditions of the IDA Credit are such that trading higher initial
capital investment costs against lower maintenance requirements in future is beneficial to GOK.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

         The main institutional development impact of the project has come from the establishment of the
Flood and Mudflow Protection Agency in the DWR (formal establishment through Order No. 1 of
February 6, 2000), and skills enhancement in KDI, PIU, and of contractor managers and staff. The project
has also fostered local manufacturing capacity for Reno mattresses.

         FMPA, at the instigation of FEP, carried out an inventory, and now maintains a database, of all
river embankments (460 km) in the rural areas of the country with an assessment of their state of repair and
maintenance requirements. It has a headquarters in Bishkek, but the bulk of its work is concentrated in the
3 southern oblasts which have also benefited from FEP. By the end of 2003, it had some 112 staff,
including engineers and inspectors stationed at oblast and raion centers, of whom about 70 are stationed in
the south. Its responsibilities are for inspection and maintenance of all rural river embankments, including
the embankments built under FEP (in raion centers and rural areas) once they are out of contractor's
guarantee period. FEP has specified new standards for monitoring and maintenance procedures (according
to need and design) which have been adopted by FMPA. FEP also supported FMPA with computers and
vehicles. FMPA's budget remains low, but has doubled gradually to KGS 40 million during the past three
years. It has no significant construction equipment of its own and relies on other units in DWR and private
contractors.

         The division of responsibilities between FMPA and MEE for embankment works was defined by
Government Regulation No. 597 of 1999. FMPA is responsible for levees that protect rural settlements
and crop lands. MEE remains responsible for repair and maintenance of embankments protecting mainly
larger settlements which have not been handed over to FMPA. Structures designed for protection of towns,
motor and railway roads, power transmission lines, and transformer substations are maintained by the
respective ministries and administrations. Despite the Regulation, there was not always a clear common
understanding of the responsibilities, which has, however, gradually improved over the years, as the FMPA
has matured.

         An international consultant familiarized PIU and KDI with the design and construction of river
bank protection by means of special stone placement and Reno mattresses, both simple and effective
technologies for Kyrgyzstan. PIU has also acquired additional expertise in managing and supervising a
project with scattered activities, carried out by relatively inexperienced local contractors. FEP has
provided the local contracting industry in the south with opportunities to keep machinery and manpower at
paid work, which they would otherwise find hard to secure. Contractors have learned a considerable
amount in terms of technical skills as well as gaining additional experience in contractual and
organizational matters. They performed well under difficult circumstances. However, low contract prices,
which boosted project outputs, have combined with various adverse circumstances allowed very few
contractors to substantially improve their financial status. Two local manufacturers established a capacity
for manual production of Reno mattresses, which has boosted local employment.



                                                      - 11 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

·   The exceptional flash flood of 2002 and 2003 which swept away or damaged some half-completed
    works and submerged contractors' equipment, causing long delays in the completion of several
    sub-projects. This happened despite numerous discussions between supervision missions and
    contractors and guidelines and letters written by the PIU. The floods of 2003 started very early and
    required an unexpected second, six-month extension of the project;
·   Civil and political disturbances occurred in Aksi, Kara Kuldja, and Kadamjay Raions. These disrupted
    works in the Kara Jigach area, delayed rock blasting in Kara Kuldja, and hindered work on the Sokh
    River, again causing delays in the completion of several contracts;
·   Border and customs obstacles to people and freight (including especially rock) passing through
    Uzbekistan. The border closures imposed by the Uzbeks shut of the economic routes from a number of
    rock quarries to sub-project sites and increased considerably the transport distance;
·   Generally weak construction sector with limited capacity and experience for work planning and
    financing. Very few projects were implemented during the eight years of Independence, which kept
    almost all local contractors idle; and
·   Provision of Austrian Grant funds to purchase significant quantities of Reno mattresses along with
    technical assistance for their application. This grant resulted in a quick breakthrough of the acceptance
    of new construction materials.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

·   The appointment by GOK of experienced managers/engineers to key posts in the PIU, both at central
    and field level, and the maintenance of these staff in their posts; and
·   Inadequate counterpart funding through 2001 caused delay in implementation and significant arrears of
    payments to contractors. IDA's agreement to increase the percentage of financing of construction
    works from 70 percent to 85 percent retroactive to January 2000 resolved the counterpart funding
    bottleneck in early 2002.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

·   The choice of competent local consultants for design and supervision, and their willingness to
    collaborate closely with short-term international consultants, proved important to project success;
·   Good commitment of project staff to their work;
·   A generally cooperative approach to resolving contractors' difficulties, especially lenience with
    extension of contracts without imposing penalties, eased project implementation;
·   Deletion of force majeure clauses and certain aspects of financial provisions in several contracts,
    worked against contractors' interests, as they did not have a contractual right to claim for
    compensation in force majeure situations;
·   Delays in proceeding with design and contracting of river gauging stations, caused largely by
    uncertainties of IDA resource availability (PIU had to first identify possible Variation Orders for
    ongoing contracts, and substantial SDR/US $ exchange rate fluctuations), resulted in this
    sub-component remaining incomplete at project closing. However, government is interested in
    completing these important works and is using the retroactively paid funds to complete the works; and
·   Slow progress with study tours resulted in delayed impact on staff resources.




                                                     - 12 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The PAD estimated total project costs, including contingencies, at US $14.1 million over 2 years,
of which US $10 million was to be financed by IDA. Total project costs over 4.5 years are expected to
amount to almost US $12.70 million. The IDA credit was completely disbursed by early 2004 and
amounted to US $9.55 million, the shortfall being due to the SDR exchange rate devaluation over the
project period. An additional Austrian Shilling 12 million (approximately US $0.75 million equivalent)
was contributed to the project through an Austrian Grant Fund. Government contributed about US $2.4
million, of which US $1.69 million in VAT offsets, US $0.51 million in kind (fuel and flour) and other tax
offsets, and US $0.20 million in cash. GOK's total required contribution to project financing was
significantly reduced by the increase in eligibility for IDA financing of civil works (from 70 percent to 85
percent) made in 2002, but retroactive to January 2000, to allow for outstanding payments to contractors.

         Construction of a unit length of protection levees was completed at lower cost than anticipated at
appraisal. In addition, the provision of Reno mattresses through the Austrian grant reduced the cost to the
project of river embankment works at Myrza Aky and Tar. This allowed a much higher output (length of
levees) than estimated at appraisal. The cost of the gauging stations was more than twice that anticipated,
but the end result should provide warning systems on four rivers, rather than just on the Kugart, as was
envisaged at appraisal.

         Disbursement was rather slow during the early years of implementation, initially because of delays
in tendering, but mainly because of poor counterpart financing. The original disbursement schedule also
failed to allow for construction work stoppages during the flood season. Delays were also caused by local
security problems which disrupted construction works. The revisions to disbursement forecasts made at the
Mid-Term Review have proved to be quite accurate.

         Until 2001, counterpart financing was channeled through MEE which resulted in delays in receipt
of funds allocated. This, together with inadequate allocations, resulted in arrears to contractors of more
than KGS 20 million (US $0.5 million) by 2002. Shortages of cash resulted in some 7 contractors being
paid in terms of fuel, construction materials, flour, and other commodities through special agreements
concluded between PIU and Ministry of Finance, and with the assent of contractors themselves. Such
payment in kind occurred especially in 2001, but a few cases continued through September 2003.

         Most contractors found themselves disadvantaged by the terms of their contracts, or the application
of those terms. None have been paid interest on late payments by PIU. None have received compensation
events for floods, civil disturbance, border closure, etc. The one tool for alleviating their misadventure has
been to grant extension to contracts, whose term in any event did not originally properly allow for the need
to halt work during flood periods. Contract terms did not allow for full compensation for hikes in local unit
prices, as price variation clauses were not generally made applicable because original contracts were less
than 18 months.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         The embankments constructed under FEP are expected to be durable. The good quality and
placing of the rock should ensure a long operational life, provided that prompt maintenance is carried out,
where needed. Experience with Reno mattresses around the world shows that this kind of river bank
protection can last for several decades without major damage. A row of relatively large stones was placed



                                                      - 13 -

at the bottom of the protected slope in order to mitigate the effects of abrasion by the solid transported
materials. To date, it is encouraging that hardly any damage has occurred, despite high speed flows in
rivers. There has been no evidence of vandalism or theft of mesh from the mattresses. Also FMPA is
well-staffed with engineers and inspectors who are trained to carry out maintenance and are already
monitoring and carrying out minor repairs to embankments under their responsibility. Hydromet, which is
to take over possession and management of the river gauging stations and flood warning systems, has staff
in place for their operation, and are being trained by the contractor. Institutional development and
advances in techniques under the project are irreversible.

         Continuous monitoring of the works will have to be carried out. As the works have been
constructed well, maintenance requirements of the levees constructed under the project are expected to be
very modest, and FMPA should be able to cover these from its maintenance budget. The inventory of all
protection levees in the country will enable the FMPA to implement an asset management plan and direct
most of the limited maintenance funds to the most needy areas.

         All in all, the overall sustainability is rated highly likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         River protection embankments constructed under the project were transferred to FMPA (along with
as-built drawings) once the contractor guarantee period of one year was completed. The raion irrigation
offices of DWR have already taken over responsibility for the intake spurs and other irrigation
infrastructure. FEP has specified new standards for monitoring and maintenance procedures (according to
need and design) which have been adopted by FMPA. A system of regular inspections has already been
established. Reno mattresses require prompt repair when breakage or severe erosion of the wire mesh is
observed. The wire mesh adopted for patches or for the replacement mattresses must comply with the
design specifications. The maintenance requirements for quarry stone protection involve prompt
replacement of the stones displaced by the flood and repair of the filter layer where required. The quality
and the size of the replacement stones must comply with the design specifications. Mattresses will be fixed
directly by FMPA staff who would typically construct the wire patches manually. The necessary tools
have been procured from the Austrian grant funds. For quarry stone protection, a contractor with the
necessary equipment will be called in, or other units of DWR with the required machinery (truck and crane)
can be used.

         With a view to optimizing future investment in river protection embankments, it is important that
the performance of embankments of different design characteristics, including records of damage and repair
costs, are monitored and compared. FMPA's monitoring process will provide the basic information
required to make such a comparison. It is suggested that an appropriate time for the government to
evaluate the long-term outcome of the project would be around 2013-2015, when there will have been an
opportunity to verify the durability and maintenance requirements of the infrastructure works.




                                                        - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

          The Association responded quickly and appropriately to GOK's request for assistance following
the 1998 floods by reallocating up to US $4 million of its on-going IRP to post-flood works and by
processing FEP between July 1998 (identification) and January 1999 (signature of DCA). There was good
cooperation with the ADB and appropriate division of work. There were some shortcomings in the PAD
(see paragraph 3.5 above), but overall IDA's lending performance is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

          Supervision missions were regular, normally conducted in association with supervision and/or
preparation missions for IRP and/or OIP. The missions were small, typically with 2-4 members and lasted
about 2 weeks in general. The MTR was carried out in June 2000, just after one year into the project.
Reporting was regular, clear, and accurate, although final, management-approved Aide Memoires were
occasionally delivered with some delay to the Borrower, mainly due to long translation periods. There were
11 supervision missions in total (following a brief launch mission and including a final supervision in
conjunction with the ICR mission). Engineering and procurement expertise was always represented. There
was great consistency in the personnel who formed the missions, yet three different engineers (including the
TTL) with specialized knowledge and wide experience were involved, all of whom provided valuable and
constructive contributions. Great attention was paid to planning the most effective use of project resources.
It is likely that better evaluation of impact and cost-effectiveness could have been achieved if an
economist/M&E specialist had been included in the MTR team. Responses to correspondence from PIU
were most often clear, sound, and rapid. Requests for contract extensions were given full, and sympathetic,
consideration and acceded to when in the best interests of the project performance.

          There was regular supervision of the 1-C accounting system and of financial management, as well
as financial and procurement reviews. Routine back-up support from the local Bank office in procurement
and finance was appreciated by the PIU. Disbursement personnel were responsive to PIU's needs. Two
courses were mounted in Bishkek for contractors in bidding/contract procedures by the region's
procurement branch. Not all potential contractors attended - more complete coverage might have been
achieved if one of the courses had been held in the south - and more training would have been beneficial.
The one and only complaint by a contractor was addressed correctly and effectively.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

          Overall, IDA's supervision performance is rated highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

          The Borrower's performance in lending is assessed as satisfactory. There was close cooperation
and involvement at the time of preparation between various ministries in government and the Association.
The Borrower made major contributions to project preparation, even commissioning design work in
advance of appraisal.




                                                      - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

        GOK provided good support to the project although it was unable to provide the full amount of
counterpart funds required, partly caused by the impact of the Russia crisis on the economy. Shortages of
counterpart funds were exacerbated in the early years by blockages in MEE, but proper steps were taken to
resolve this problem in later years. To mitigate the lack of counterpart funds, contractors were paid in kind
from government stocks of fuel and other goods. The inter-ministerial Coordination Committee (CC) did
not meet as frequently as required towards the end of the project, but by this time most strategic decisions
of sub-project selection had already been made and the Technical Board of the project, comprising
members from DWR, MEE, KDI, Hydromet, and chaired by Deputy Minister of MOAWRPI in charge of
DWR, always met to review and approve each sub-project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

        The Borrower performed well in terms of practical management of the project. There was
outstanding commitment to ensuring implementation of project works. There were regular site inspections
and construction supervision was effective. Delays were mostly caused by exogenous factors and lack of
counterpart funds. Progress reporting was timely and provided a good basis for monitoring project
progress. Surveys were conducted to discover local attitudes to, and assessment of damage and disturbance
caused by flooding. An evaluation report, covering most sub-projects was completed in December 2003,
providing valuable information for the ICR mission.

        Covenants were all fulfilled, although there was delay in submission of some agreed studies and
their quality was not always of the highest standard. One audit report was qualified because funds had
been improperly paid out of the Special Account to the Ministry of Finance, even though it was noted that
the money had almost immediately been repaid. (This was a country-wide portfolio problem, and the PIU
could not be faulted for this as they responded to an official instruction from MOF.)

        Overall, procurement was effective and well-recorded. Apart from 7 Small Works contracts early
in project implementation, most procurement was conducted under NCB procedures. The competition for
the FEP contracts has been large, with a total of 103 contractors participating in the bidding of 24
contracts (17 NCB and 7 MW). The 24 contracts were awarded to 13 different contractors. Normally
procurement was prompt. In some cases insufficient notice of tender was given by PIU. There were also
some imperfections on the part of the PIU in judging the qualification of bidders and in documentation.
Because some successful bidders proved to have insufficient capacity or resources, qualification criteria
were tightened over the course of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

        On balance, the ICR team concludes that Borrower performance was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

        Projects can yield benefits beyond those expected at appraisal. In this case, flexibility of project
design, accompanied by good resource planning, sound engineering design, and effective management for
implementation, produced very good results. What was planned as an emergency recovery project has
enhanced not only the nation's long-term infrastructural assets, but also its stock of engineering and
contracting expertise and has provided significant short-term employment.

        Contractors in ex-Soviet environments still face difficulties in adjusting to Bank-style construction


                                                    - 16 -

contracts with Government. Since these difficulties could jeopardize achievement of project objectives,
substantial efforts are called for ­ on all sides ­ to understand as fully as possible, and find solutions to,
problems arising. A very high proportion of project funds in infrastructure projects are channelled to
contractors (in the case of FEP about 90 percent), and although private sector development is not a specific
objective of such projects, the impact of these projects on the contracting industry could be substantial, not
only in the short term, but also on the shape of long-term development. For both these reasons, it would be
in the Bank's interest to investigate the impact of project contracts on the contracting industry in
Kyrgyzstan, perhaps in the context of a wider study.

         Timely project implementation depends on good project planning. In this case, the time-frames of
both sub-project contracts and the project itself were bound to be extended because no proper account was
taken of the need to halt works during the flood season. The sequence of construction works should also be
carefully planned by contractors so that, when floods are likely to occur, most works are in a state capable
of withstanding them.

         Simple technologies and design approaches which are new for the borrowing country can be
successfully introduced, and adopted by relatively inexperienced contractors if the necessary support of
international experts, along with effective local support, is provided.

         Import of working quantities of new products can demonstrate the effectiveness of new
technologies and provide the key to their acceptance on a wider scale, as well as a guide and comparative
gauge for local manufacture.

         Training (especially on-the-job) is critical in order to obtain overall satisfactory results and to
provide a relatively homogeneous quality level throughout similar sub-projects.

         Kyrgyz norms for flood relief works (including calculation of flood return periods and associated
evaluation of benefits) remain intact since Soviet times. In view of constraints on resources for investment
in infrastructure, and the apparent rising frequency of large flood flows, it would be advisable, in due
course, to review the effectiveness of norms and methodologies in light of current data constraints and
available alternative methodologies for assessing damage and risk, and to establish a strategy to guide
future investment decisions.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

(Letter from the Minister of Agriculture, Water Resources, and Processing Industry, dated June 17, 2004,
addressed to the Country Manager in Bishkek).

         We appreciate your providing the draft of the Implementation Completion Report for the Flood
Emergency Project. In fact one of the major and significant projects is completed; it has a great importance
for the country in terms of the populations, irrigated areas and social infrastructure protection from natural
disasters.

         The document submitted for consideration reflects the stages of the activities implemented to
liquidate the aftermath of the floods occurred in 1998. It should be noted that the World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) did not include this Project, and it is an example of the constructive response to
the national calamity caused by the flood that occurred after the discussion of the CAS. The Report
objectively reflects both positive aspects and problematic issues being arisen in the course of the project



                                                       - 17 -

implementation.

        Indeed the Project achieved its objectives: by virtue of improvement of the embankment protection
and the irrigation system rehabilitation certain danger of floods was eliminated for the three Rayon Centers
and 24 settlements with the population of 100,000 people; and supply of irrigation water to the farms with
the total command area of almost 34,500 hectares in the Osh, Jalal-Abad and Batken Oblasts resumed.

         Design modes were improved and construction of levees using the Reno mattresses, geo-textile, and
rip-rap (rock) started. Two local firms (Jalal-Abad Trade Equipment Factory and JSC Dustlik) organized
production of Reno mattresses to substitute the imported ones. It also contributes to the employment rate in
the area and development of the local industry. Contractors gained experience in quality execution of
works and came to know international and local standards and technical specifications.

        During the project implementation, design and construction environment protection issues were
given due attention. The environmental impact of the construction works was taken into account at the
design stage, along with reinstatement of the river and canal regimes, avoiding any detriment to the
environment. River natural regime, existing before the damage, was reinstated, the gabion constructions
organically blended with the local landscape due to vegetation they got covered with. It is possible to
accelerate this process if gabions are artificially covered with soil to be followed with grass and shrubs
planting.

         Examination in 2003 of the completed in 1999-2000 sub-projects proved their good technical
condition, lack of deformations and damages. It was also defined that different components of the levees
and irrigation schemes comply with the technical specifications envisaged by the projects. This is the
evidence of high quality work that was executed.

        In compliance with the Credit Agreement the specialized Mud Flow Projection Department was
established. This Department examined the existing flood protection infrastructure and defined needs in
maintenance and perspective goals. The set up Interdepartmental Steering Committee composed of the
Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Goscominvest, Ministry of Emergencies and Ecology, State
Administrations of the Osh, Jalal-Abad Oblasts and the Prime-Minister's Office has been working out joint
approaches to resolution of the problems arising during the Project implementation.

        IDA closely supervised the Project implementation and purposeful utilization of both Credit and
Budget resources under the Project. The reasons hampering the Project execution were identified, and
recommendations on resolution of the arising problems both in the Project and at the interdepartmental level
were developed. The World Bank used to regularly inform the respective state bodies of the country on the
outcomes of the supervisions conducted. Thanks to Mr. J. Stoutjesdijk's technical, political and overall
competence, his communication skills the Project was successfully completed. The Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic highly appreciated the contribution made by Mr. Stoutjesdijk in implementation of the
Flood Emergency Project, Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, and On Farm Irrigation Project. Mr.
Stoutjesdijk was awarded with a Diploma of the Kyrgyz Republic.

        IDA assessment of the Project is satisfactory, although on the side of the Borrower there were some
deficiencies. Given hard economic situation in the country counterpart financing was not regular at the
beginning of the Project. The restraining factors for the Project were lack of experience in design and
construction of protection structures using the Reno mattresses, organization of procurement given the
international standards, and signing of contacts neglecting the flood periods at the rivers where
rehabilitation works were scheduled. Lessons learnt during bidding issued for procurement of these works,



                                                      - 18 -

in terms of organization of works in river beds in the shortest time possible, sanctioning of contractors, not
meeting the contract terms without objective reasons will be accounted by future projects.

        The Ministry of Agriculture, Water Resources and Processing Industry of the Kyrgyz Republic
believes it possible to submit the Implementation Completion Report for the Flood Emergency Project for
consideration of the IDA Board of Directors.




(b) Cofinanciers:

        Information about the Austrian Grant has been incorporated in the text of the report.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        N/A.

10. Additional Information

    None.




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Identified flood hazards removed for 25        Flood hazards removed for 25 villages,       24 villages and 3 district centers have been
villages.                                      utilizing improved designs and durable       provided with durable flood protection to local
                                               construction methods. 38,000 people          standards, against a 1 in 200 year flood.
                                               protected.                                   Number of people protected directly in the
                                                                                            flood zones are 42,000, while another 70,000
                                                                                            people benefit indirectly through protection of
                                                                                            public infrastructure.

Irrigation infrastructure returned to fully    39,000 ha.                                   Headworks and intakes for 34,350 ha
operational condition - timely and adequate                                                 returned to fully operable condition, allowing
delivery of irrigation water to the command                                                 timely and adequate supply of water.
areas of irrigation headworks that were
destroyed or damaged during the 1998
floods.

Employment.                                    Not included.                                > 400 man years.

New cost-effective construction methods        Partially anticipated.                       Full acceptance of new embankment
instituted.                                                                                 construction methods and replication with
                                                                                            potential for major cost savings over future
                                                                                            years.

Note: Data given in middle column are the estimates at appraisal, rather than the last PSR. Actual/latest estimates coincide
with the information given in the last PSR.
Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 River protection works returned to         8.8 km along 5 rivers;                       27.4 km along 8 rivers.
operational condition - repair or              23 spurs of about 100 m length each.
reconstruction of (a) river embankments; and
(b) deflector spurs.


1.2 Repair or reconstruction of intake works, 16 schemes, including:                        8 schemes, including:
head regulators and conveyance canal           10 intake spurs (930 m),                     2.9 km intake and protection works,
protection (a) inside river beds; and (b)      3 protective spurs (900 m),                  canal cleaning (one scheme),
outside river beds.                            canal embankment repairs (6 km),             2 sluice regulators and 1 turnout,
                                               3 head regulators.                           2 major headworks.


1.3 (a) Reconstruction of river        gauging (a) US $150,000 on four major rivers; (b) US Reconstruction of gauging stations and
stations; and (b) installation of one flood    $50,000 on Kugart.                           construction of flood warning systems on four
warning system.                                                                             rivers, including the Kugart (US $610,000).


2.1 National government staff and              Improved knowledge and experience.           Staff and local consultants have improved
consultants have improved knowledge and                                                     knowledge and experience of designing
experience in designing applicable solutions                                                appropriate solutions for river protection and
for river protection and irrigation                                                         irrigation infrastructure.
infrastructure.


National government staff and consultants      Three senior PIU staff, 11 inspectors, and 5 6 PIU staff, 7 inspectors, and 10 design
are equipped to adequately supervise and       design engineers trained.                    engineers fully trained.
implement the technical aspects of the
project.


Implementation support.                        Salaries (US $59,000); Office equipment      Salaries (US $170,000); 6 vehicles, 11
                                               and vehicles (US $56,000); Consultancies     computers and printers, small office and field
                                               and Studies (US$460,000); Study Tour         equipment (US $96,000); Consultancies (US
                                               (US$34,000).                                 $154,000); and Study Tour (US $34,000).

1 End of project



                                                                   - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
A. Rehabilitation of Infrastructure and Flood
     Warning System

  A.1 River embankments                                         9.00            8.54            95
  A.2 Deflector spurs                                           1.70
  A.3 Irrigation infrastructure (inside river bed)              2.30            2.19            95
  A.4 Irrigation infrastructure (outside river bed              0.20
  A.5 River gauging stations and flood warning                  0.20            0.61           305
   Systems
B. Project Management and Implementation                        0.70            0.60            86
    Support

Austrian Grant                                                                  0.75

Total Baseline Cost                                            14.10          12.69
                          Total Project Costs                  14.10          12.69
                   Total Financing Required                    14.10          12.69


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category               ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                              0.00            12.20         1.30         0.00       13.50
                                      (0.00)          (8.50)      (0.90)         (0.00)     (9.40)
2. Goods                              0.00            0.00          0.10         0.00        0.10
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.10)         (0.00)     (0.10)
3. Services                           0.00            0.00          0.50         0.00        0.50
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)     (0.50)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.10        0.10
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                              0.00            12.20         1.90         0.10       14.20
                                      (0.00)          (8.50)      (1.50)         (0.00)    (10.00)




                                                   - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00              10.50              0.90             0.00             11.40
                                           (0.00)             (8.40)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (9.00)
    2. Goods                                0.00               0.00              0.10             0.71              0.81
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (0.10)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              0.45             0.03              0.48
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.45)            (0.00)           (0.45)
    4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                               0.00              10.50              1.45             0.74             12.69
                                           (0.00)             (8.40)            (1.15)            (0.00)           (9.55)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
         Category                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Works                           9.40         4.10                     9.00         2.38                  95.7      58.0
(a) River Protection                                                  7.30         1.77
Infrastructure
(b) Irrigation                                                        1.65         0.54
Infrastructure
Goods                           0.10                                  0.10                    0.71       100.0
Consultants Services and        0.50                                  0.45         0.09       0.03       90.0
Training
Miscellaneous                   0.10                                  0.00                                0.0
Total                          10.10         4.10                     9.55         2.40       0.74       94.6      58.5




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Irrigation Systems

         The PAD calculated EIRRs for three of the 16 planned irrigation schemes, giving results of 21
percent for the smallest to 104 percent for the largest. Assumptions made were that yields would rise on
average 20 percent as a result of the project. There has been no monitoring of yield levels or detailed
recording of water deliveries on any of the 8 irrigation schemes rehabilitated by FEP and hence no objective
assessment of benefits can be made beyond the saving of costs for river training. The net present value of
these costs is estimated at US $0.55 million against a total capital cost of works of US $2.05 million. The
remaining capital cost of US $57 per ha would be covered by an annual yield increase of only 1-2 percent.
From interviews with several farmers it is clear that there is satisfaction with the secure water supply and
that the yield have increased much more than the required 1-2 percent. From this, it is deduced that
increased reliability of water supply will have generated a value of benefits exceeding the costs of the
works.

Cost-Effectiveness of River Embankments

         The average cost of protection per household under FEP is about US $1,600 compared with an
estimated cost of resettlement in new housing of US $5-6,000. For the sub-projects at Sokh and Kara
Kuldja, the embankment cost was US $0.3-US $0.4 million greater than total resettlement costs for
households. At Kara Kuldja, this additional cost could be justified by the additional industrial and water
infrastructure which was protected and, at Sokh by the protection afforded to an important road access.
The cost per household at Aravan and Kara Suu/Kara Jigach was much lower than the average (see also
Annex 11). Once a decision was made that it was imperative to protect certain settlements, FEP compared
several alternative engineering solutions, selecting from these the solution with lowest capital investment
costs, choosing Reno mattresses where costs of delivering rock for embankment lining would be higher.

         MEE and FMPA have both carried out embankment strengthening with rock at lower cost than
FEP, using designs which use smaller quantities of rock than the FEP rock-based designs. Both
acknowledge that their own design solutions will not last as long as those of FEP. They also expect that
their constructions will require more substantial maintenance.

         Detailed costs and designs of MEE were not available to the ICR mission, but some exploratory
calculations were undertaken to explore possible scenarios, combining various combinations of life
expectancy and maintenance cost as shown in the table below. The cost of MEE embankments is reckoned
by them to be 70 percent of that of FEP embankments. The first part of the table based on an index of 100
thus represents FEP embankments and the second part based on an index of 70 represents MEE
embankments.

         MEE estimates that FEP embankments will last in excess of 50 years. It is expected that FEP
embankments may require annual repairs equivalent to 1 percent or maximum 2 percent of capital cost,
whereas MEE/FMPA traditional embankments may require annual repairs up to 5 percent of capital cost
per year. The results are quite close and the MEE embankments might prove more cost-effective over time,
even if they last a shorter period, if maintenance costs can be kept to 3 percent or less of capital cost per
year. Maintenance costs have not yet been verified for either alternative: the current MEE design (with
garretting) has not been used until quite recently. Also, not enough time has passed since the construction
of the FEP-financed protection works to carry out a detailed comparison of cost-effectiveness over time. It
is therefore recommended that maintenance costs are monitored and that a thorough evaluation of different



                                                     - 23 -

standards of embankment construction is carried out after 10 years or so. As timely and adequate
maintenance of all flood protection works in the country is not yet guaranteed, due to limited available
budgets, it is likely that the more durable structures built under FEP are providing a longer and more
sustainable protection.



                             Capital Cost =            100    Units
                                 Life      years:       50         30        15
                  Maintenance costs      %/year               NPV @ 10%
                                           1           100        105
                                           2           109        114
                                           3           118        123
                                           4           127        132
                                           5           136        140


                             Capital Cost =             70 Units
                                 Life      years:       50         30        15
                  Maintenance costs      %/year               NPV @ 10%
                                           1                       76        90
                                           2                       85        98
                                           3                       94       107
                                           4                      103       116
                                           5                      112       125




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/08/1998                2    ENGINEER (2)



 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/08/1998                3    ENGINEER (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              12/07/1998                5    TASK TEAM LEADER/
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             COUNSEL (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                                             (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1);

 Supervision
              05/31/1999                2    TASK TEAM
                                             LEADER/ENGINEER (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1);
              09/01/1999                2    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              02/25/2000                4    TTL/ENGINEER (1); SECTOR         S               S
                                             MANAGER (1); OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                             (1)
              06/17/2000                4    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ENGINEER (2);
              12/04/2000                2    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
              06/13/2001                4    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
              12/13/2001                5    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (2);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             RIVER ENGINEER (1);
              06/18/2002                3    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             RIVER ENGINEER (1);
              11/25/2002                6    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);



                                              - 25 -

                                                  RIVER ENGINEER (1);
                                                  PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1); PROCUREMENT OFFICER
                                                  (1);
               08/09/2003                    6    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                   S             S
                                                  PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                                  JPA (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                                  FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                  (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
               01/26/2004                    3    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                   S             S
                                                  OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                  PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);

 ICR
               01/26/2004                    2     ECONOMIST (1);                     S             S
                                                   ENGINEER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                   88
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                    54                           431
  ICR                                             7                            38
  Total                                                                       557
Preparation budget includes appraisal/negotiations. Supervision budget includes BB - US $384,000; FAO
Investment Center - US $29,000; and CTF Italy - US $18,000.




                                                   - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annexes to ICR

Annex 8: Studies Undertaken under Flood Emergency Project;
Annex 9: Works and Studies Undertaken under Irrigation Rehabilitation Project relating to Flood
Emergency Project;
Annex 10: Engineering - Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Infrastructure;
Annex 11: Impact of Works; and
Map: Location of Sub-projects.

On File

Project Appraisal Document (December 28, 1998; Report No. 18701-KG);
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations;
Development Credit Agreement (January 28, 1999);
IDA supervision reports, including Aide Memoires and PSRs, for every supervision mission;
Aide Memoire of ICR Mission, February 12, 2004;
PIU's Project Implementation Evaluation Report, December 2003;
Various Design Reports;
Pictures of project works;
Booklet with information and photos of sub-projects before and after reconstruction; and
Letters from Borrower.




                                                  - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Studies Undertaken under the Flood Emergency Project

         Design studies for all sub-projects subsequently implemented (including an assessment of design
options), bidding documents, and design drawings were prepared by the Kyrgyz Design Institute, as shown
in the table below. The table also includes studies for sub-projects not subsequently selected for
implementation.

         Social/Attitude Survey of Villages in Osh and Jalal-Abad, prepared by local consultants in 2000.

         Nationwide Inventory and Assessment of Maintenance Requirements for Flood Control Structures,
prepared by Flood and Mudflow Protection Agency.

Table: Design and Bidding Documents Prepared by Consultants
#      Sub-project (River)          Design         Bidding       Design       Comments
                                    Study1/        Document      Drawings
1      Sokh Headworks                                                         NCB documents
                                                                              prepared in 1999
                                                                              under IRP
2      Section VI; Bishkek-Osh      X              X             X
       Road (Kugart)
3      Kara Darya                   X              x             X            Small Works
4      Shakhimardan                 X              X             X
       Headworks
5      Kara Darya Addendum                                       X            Approval based on
                                                                              e-mails; Small Works
6      Uzgen Canal (Kara            X              x             X
       Kulja)
7      Zernovoy (Kugart)            X              x             X
8      Sokh, Otukchu,               X              X             X            Various sections, not
       Ak Turpak, Kyzyl                                                       all documents in
       Korgon                                                                 English; Small Works
9      Kara Jigach, (Kara Suu)      X              x             X
10     Myrza Aky (Yassy)            X              x             X
11     Sai (Tar)                    X              x             X
12     Kara Kuldja                  X              X             X            Technical Feasibility,
                                                                              Socio-Economic data
                                                                              included
13     Katta Tegermen Canal         X              x             X            Small works
14     Kugart RB d/s of Kok                                                   Ongoing under ASSP,
       Art Bridge                                                             after modification
                                                                              (February 2004)
15     Kok Art Bridge (Kugart)                                                NCB documents
                                                                              prepared in 1999
                                                                              under IRP
16     Savai (Josholu)              X              x             X            Small Works
17     Sary Kamysh Canal            X              x             X            Designed; not
       (Tar)                                                                  implemented



                                                    - 30 -

18    Naiman Main Canal           X               x             X             Small Works
      (Aravan Sai)
19    Aravan                      X               x             X
20    Blagoveshenka Section       X               x             X             Includes
      III (Kugart)                                                            Socio-Economic
                                                                              information
21    Sputnik Section IV          X               x             X             Includes
      (Kugart)                                                                Socio-Economic
                                                                              information
22    Atamkul Canal, Yassy        X               x             X             Mainly
                                                                              hydro-mechanical;
                                                                              Small Works
23    River Gauging Stations      X               X             X             Four sets of drawings
      (4)
24    Kara Darya upstream         X                                           Technical Feasibility;
      and downstream of                                                       not implemented
      Kugart confluence
                                        X = in English and Russian
                                            x = in Russian only
1/ Contents typically include:
Assessment of natural conditions; Characteristics of existing protection embankments; Technical proposals
for protection measures; Ecological fitness of construction materials; Operation of protection
embankments; Mobilization; Cost Estimates; Assessment of likely damages; Hydraulic estimates.




                                                   - 31 -

Additional Annex 9. Works & Studies Undertaken under the IRP relating to the FEP

Feasibility Study

        The Kyrgyz Design Institute prepared in late 1998 a Feasibility Study for 25 sub-projects, many of
which were subsequently implemented under FEP. The information covered in the study included climate,
hydrology, information on quarries, information on damage caused by the 1998 floods, general principles
of design options, proposals for rehabilitation of the 25 sub-projects, initial cost estimates, and
environmental considerations.

Post Flood Rehabilitation Works

        IRP was modified and a flood protection component was added. The following works were carried
out with IRP financing.

   No.    River/Site               Works                              Cost        Finish Date
                                                                    US $000
    1     Kugart                   River bed cleaning                  509        24/3/99
    2     Kugart                   Strengthening embankment            640        15/7/01
          Chainage 86-94
   3.1    Kugart                   Rehabilitation of                   541        15/7/01
          Chainage 94-98.5         embankment
   3.2    Kugart                   Rehabilitation of                   360        30/7/01
          Chainage 98.5-103        embankment

    4     Mailu Suu Irrigation     Headworks                           174        1/4/01
          (3,360 ha)
    5     Kara Ungur Irrigation Headworks                              244        21/4/99
          (23,700 ha)
    6     Aravan Sai Irrigation    Headworks                           344        13/8/99
          (3,360 ha)
    7     Kugart Irrigation        Headworks                           188        15/3/00
          (8,900 ha)
           TOTAL                                                      3000
                       Source: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, Annual Report, 2003.

Notes:
        -   Kugart embankments rehabilitated under IRP lie downstream of Bishkek-Osh bridge and
            upstream of Kok-Art bridge.
        -   Kara Ungur Headworks lies upstream of Katta Tegermen Canal.
        -   Aravan Sai Headworks lies immediately upstream of embankments reconstructed under FEP.
        -   Kugart Headworks lies downstream of Zernovoy Canal and the Kugart gauging station and
            upstream of embankment works.




                                                     - 32 -

Related Works Carried Out Under Irrigation Rehabilitation Project

       The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project has carried out works under the Irrigation and Maintenance
Component that are closely related with structures that have been rehabilitated under the FEP. The works
are summarized in the following tables.

                                           Rehabilitation Works

 No.    River/Site              Works                             Cost       Finish Date
                                                                US $000
 1      Sokh/                   Canal lining and                  404        2/29/04
        Burganda                heightening, repair of road
                                and pedestrian bridges.

                                           Maintenance Works

 No.    River/Site              Works                             Cost       Finish Date
                                                                US $000
 2      Kugart/                 Repair to headworks                35        3/15/04
        Zernovoy Canal          structure, desilting of
                                Zernovoy, secondary 1 and
                                2 canals
 3      Yassy/                  Repair of sluice regulator,        24        4/5/03
        Atamkul Canal           desilting of 5.3 km of canal




                                                   - 33 -

Additional Annex 10. Engineering - Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of Infrastructure

1. Introduction

         In the PAD the repair or reconstruction of 8.8 km of embankment and of about 4 km of spurs was
envisaged. In addition 6 km of conveyance canals and several other minor works were considered. The
actual project consisted of repairing or reconstructing over 30.5 km of embankment and spurs, a limited
length of conveyance canals, headworks reconstruction, and the replacement of a double carriageway
bridge, needed to provide adequate discharge capacity in a Kugart River section that was protected by the
project. Therefore the extent of the structures repaired and/or reconstructed was by far superior to what
was envisaged at the beginning of the project. A number of changes to the originally envisaged tasks were
made, following further studies on sites and on the local risk conditions, which determined priority areas in
urgent need of protection. At most locations the stream geometry was considered more suitable for
longitudinal protection embankments than for the deflection spurs envisaged during appraisal. Savings,
relative to the appraisal estimate, were possible through the introduction of more effective engineering
approaches. The original cost estimates, provided by government during appraisal, were very high. In
addition, contractors prices were typically very competitive.

         The table at the end of this Annex gives a brief description of each sub-project, the outputs and the
costs. It also summarizes the work quantities performed at each sub project, including earth-works,
concrete works, stone works, granular filters, Reno mattresses, and geotextiles.

2. Design

2.1. General Assessment

         The main goal of the appraisal document was fully achieved in that a very significant mitigation of
the flooding risk was obtained by the designed protection structures. Design was satisfactory and provided
contractors with all the main relevant information needed to carry out the work. The stability of the bank
protection structures as designed is believed to be satisfactory, consistent with the recommendations of the
international consultants and in line with the expectations of the PAD and with the requirements of the local
norms. In 2002-2003 large floods occurred, which, at least at two different locations, reportedly were close
to the 0.5 percent probability river discharge. No damage was reported in the completed structures, but
some damage occurred at locations where the construction works were still ongoing.

         Works were also carried out on headworks on the Sokh and Shakhimardan and six smaller
irrigation headworks. It can be concluded that these works are satisfactory and fulfill the goals of the
project.

         Four gauging stations have been designed and constructed. Each of them will be equipped with a
flood warning system based on automatic water level measuring and transmission of records by means of
modern communication facilities. These systems are very much needed in order to mitigate flooding
hazards at several villages. In addition new and more reliable flow measurements will allow further
verification of the level of risk at each location. The hydroposts will be located on the Kugart River
(Mikhailovka Village), on the Tar River (Chalma Village), on the Yassy river (Salamalik Village), and on
the Kara-Kuldja river (Pervomaiskoe Village).




                                                     - 34 -

2.2. Applied Norms

         Local norms (SNIP 2.06.15-85 "Engineering protection of the territory from flooding and
submerging") were applied in order to define the Risk Category of each sub-project and the probability of
exceedance of the design and of the control river discharges applied in the hydraulic calculations. Risk
Category III was assigned to all the populated areas, whereas Risk Category IV was assigned to irrigation
schemes. According to the local norms (SNIP 2.06.05-84 "Dams constructed with soil materials") crest
elevation of protection dams has to be not less than 0.5 m above the maximum water level. According to
SNIP 2.06.01-86, the annual probability of exceedance for Risk Category III is the following:
- Design - 3.0 percent (once per 33 years);
- Check test - 0.5 percent (once in 200 years).

         According to SNIP 2.06.01-86, the annual probability of exceedance for Risk Category IV is the
following:
- Design - 5.0 percent (once per 20 years);
- Check test - 1.0 percent (once in 100 years).

         It is understood that most evaluations on the design floods were carried out based on the available
gauging station records, which reportedly in some occasions did not record accurately during floods.
Freeboards of at least 0.5 m (and up to 0.8 m) considered in the local norms are rather high according to
western standards. However, considering the uncertainty in long-term flood data they seem appropriate.
Further insight into these aspects will be beneficial for future similar projects. The gauging stations
constructed under the project will be important to build up an accurate data base of flow data.

2.3. Selection of Materials

         The quarry stone protections and the Reno mattresses were designed based on international
state-of-the-practice formulas. The Reno mattresses were partly imported from foreign countries and
partly produced in local gabion factories. As far as the local production is concerned, the wire used to
manufacture the mattresses was imported from Ukraine. Such wire is characterized by a zinc content in
line with the internationally accepted values (at least 260 gram per kg of wire) and therefore it is expected
to provide an adequate resistance against corrosion.

         The rock used for river bank protection was obtained from different quarries. The material was
tested and qualified, and in general the stone quality used in construction was satisfactory. The quality of
stone used must be sufficient to withstand the expected bombardment of flood bedloads and winter
conditions with freezing and thawing. Therefore the sources of supply of quality stone are limited and had
to be carefully selected. This often resulted in large haulage costs and the cost of the embankments is
largely dependent on the quantity of rock and distance from the nearest suitable quarry. At some locations
two different kinds of stones were adopted from different quarries where the best quality material was
placed in the zone subject to more critical weathering conditions.

2.4. Selection of Alternatives

         Several different alternatives were considered for river bank protection at each sub-project. They
included schemes with quarry rock (with special rock placement), Reno mattresses, and gabions. In the end
only Reno mattresses and stone protections were adopted. Gabions were excluded as they were too bulky
and expensive for the project requirements.




                                                     - 35 -

         The rock protection designed for the FEP project is typically composed of two layers of stones,
placed one by one and properly interlocked, and the voids between the larger blocks are filled with smaller
rock fragments. The quarry rock is placed on a gravel layer which protects the embankment from eroding.
The foot of the river bank is protected by a horizontal apron of designed length which prevents
underscouring and collapse of the embankment face. This scheme differs considerably from previous
emergency works in Kyrgyzstan which were carried out using random rock placement and without
providing an apron and a proper granular filter.

         A similar scheme was adopted for the Reno mattresses, which had not been used before in the
Kyrgyz Republic. A filter was provided between the mattresses and the embankment soil, including a sheet
of geotextile. Even in this case the toe of the embankment was protected by means of an apron composed of
Reno mattresses and relatively large stones. A row of stones was placed at the toe of the embankment to
provide protection of the steel mesh from abrasion.

         The selection was based on a preliminary cost estimate carried out at the design stage. In general
the distance of the construction site from the closest suitable quarry was the most relevant controlling
factor, and usually Reno mattresses were found to be cost-effective at sites located at a distance in excess
of 60 km from the quarry. For some contracts two quarries were used in order to save on construction
costs when the quarry with the best stone was located far from the project site.

3. Construction

3.1. Technical Performance

         The technical performance of the project was satisfactory in that the works were completed
according to acceptable standards. In very few cases an excess of small stones was observed in the rock
protection, but in general the special placement of stones was performed adequately. The Reno mattresses
are generally well built, carefully filled by hand, and connected to each other. Although the contractors did
not have previous experience in this kind of work, very few specific technical problems were reported by
them. PIU and designers provided training to contractors who did not have specific experience in the works
to be carried out, and this activity proved to be quite fruitful.

3.2. Technical Problems

         The main technical problems which were encountered during construction were due to the
occurrence of floods during the works, which caused delays relative to the contractual time, and sometimes
led also to significant damage to the unfinished structures. At Aravan Sai difficulties were also found in
carrying out the works due to the narrow river bed which made water diversion difficult, and due also to
lack of space on the river banks. Other reported technical problems were due to occasional delays in the
supply of mattresses. At Kara Jigach the tense political and social situation led some subcontractors and
suppliers to withdraw their services causing delays with the works.

3.3. Construction Supervision

         Construction supervision was carried out by field engineers engaged by the PIU. Local consulting
engineers from KDI were also involved in supervision missions to the site. Their role was to make sure
that all design specifications and recommendations were complied with (so called "author's" supervision).
In general, construction supervision was carried out properly and according to a good quality standard,
with adequate testing and reporting.


                                                      - 36 -

4. Sustainability

4.1. Expected Life

         Experience with Reno mattresses around the world shows that this kind of river bank protection
can last for several decades without major damage. In general a life in excess of 40 years can be expected
(e.g. see British Board of Agreement, Certificates Nos. 95/3141 and 00/3683) in environment conditions
such as the ones applicable to the FEP. Case histories show that in some occasions a life in excess of 100
years can be attained. The adopted zinc coating for FEP is consistent with the international accepted
values and provides a good level of protection against corrosion. A row of stones was placed at the bottom
of the protected slope in order to mitigate the effects of abrasion by solid transported materials. Since the
factors affecting the life of steel wire are complex and since little experience on Reno mattresses is
available in the project areas, it was agreed that FMPA will provide a close and continuous monitoring of
the mattresses performance.

         As far as the quarry stone protection is concerned, the rock adopted in the project should provide a
long operational life of several decades, provided that continuous and prompt maintenance actions are
carried out, where needed. A number of tests for quality assessment were carried out according to the local
norms, to ensure that good quality rock was used throughout the sub-projects.

         At one of the first sub-projects, Ak Turpak on the Sokh River, precast-reinforced-concrete slabs
were initially used in place of the special-placement stone protection established in design. Following
recommendations by an IDA supervision mission the slabs were protected with good quality stones. As a
result the durability of the bank protection at Ak Turpak is expected to be comparable with the durability
of the works carried out at other FEP locations.

4.2. Maintenance Requirements

         Top parts of the levees exposed to direct water flow or insufficiently protected by damaged Reno
mattresses or stones should be fixed immediately in order to prevent damage to the filter material, to the
surrounding rock or mattresses and to the embankment. Similarly, immediate action shall be undertaken if
deformation of the river bank due to poor performance of the filter layer and consequent erosion has taken
place. The maintenance requirements for Reno mattresses involve prompt repair when breakage or severe
abrasion of the wire mesh is observed. Typically the damage would be fixed using patches of wire mesh
or, where necessary, immediately replacing the damaged mattresses with new ones. The wire mesh adopted
for patches or for the replacement mattresses shall comply with the design specifications. Tools and spare
wire were procured with Austrian funds, so that FMPA is equipped to provide the needed repairs.

         The maintenance requirements for quarry stone protection involve prompt replacement of the
stones displaced by the flood and repair of the filter layer where required. The quality and the size of the
replacement stones shall comply with the design specifications.

4.3. Maintenance Arrangements

         The maintenance of the river bank protections is the responsibility of the FMPA. Key maintenance
issues are very well understood by the Agency and experienced personnel is available for proper inspection
and emergency repair activities. Inspections are carried out by field staff every week and the observed
damage, if any, is reported immediately to the oblast and central offices of the Agency. In case mattresses



                                                     - 37 -

have to be fixed, this can be done directly by the maintenance personnel who would typically construct
manually the wire patches to be used for repair. On the other hand, in case quarry stone protections are to
be fixed a contractor with adequate equipment will be called in. Alternatively the Agency itself could
manage to perform these emergency repair works using its own equipment, if available, which is limited, or
use the equipment made available to DWR oblast offices under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project.

         A constant cooperation between the Flood and Mudflow Protection Agency and the KDI is to be
encouraged in order to provide effective monitoring of the new works and to learn lessons for future design
of similar structures. It is important that the Agency's personnel provide the designer with comprehensive
information on the type and extent of the observed damage if any, and on the circumstances under which
such damage did occur.

5. Contractors and Consultants

5.1. Contractors

         In general the technical performance of the contractors was satisfactory, despite their limited
experience. They proved a definite willingness to complete the works although in some cases they may
have faced substantial financial losses. Apparently in some cases their bid was too low, and furthermore
problems associated with floods and other unforeseen events caused considerable delays and made the
economic outcome of contracts worse for them. Some contracts did not include a "force majeure" clause,
and therefore the extra unforeseen works as a results of high floods were not paid for by the client. The
main shortcomings of the contractor were probably related to inexperience in dealing with bids,
subcontractors, and with the client itself. Some training and guidance was given to the contractors, and it
is believed that during the project they had a very good opportunity to acquire not only new technical skills,
but also additional experience on contractual and organizational issues. Thus, the experience collected
during the FEP improved the ability of the contractors and even more of the KDI to deal with future
government-funded and internationally funded projects.

5.2 Consultants

         The local consultants, which benefited from the experience of international engineers, had a
prominent role in proposing and introducing to the PIU fundamental information on design and construction
of river bank protection by means of special stone placement and Reno mattresses. This contribution made
easier the introduction of these two effective technologies in Kyrgyzstan, resulting in sound and durable
protections of the river banks.

6. Lessons Learned

l Timely project implementation depends on good project planning. In this case, the time-frames of both
    sub-project contracts and the project itself were bound to be extended because no proper account was
    taken of the need to halt works during the flood season;
l The sequence of construction works should be carefully planned so that when floods are likely to occur,
    most works should be able to withstand them;
l Technologies and design approaches that are new for the borrowing country can be effectively
    introduced by experienced consultants, and with little training adopted by contractors that have related
    hydraulic construction experiences; and
l On-the-job training and regular supervision by experienced engineers is critical in order to obtain
    overall satisfactory results and to provide a relatively homogeneous quality level.


                                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

Additional Annex 11. Impact of Works

1. Protection Embankments on Rivers

1.1. Methodological Background and Approach

        The purpose of the work on river embankments was to improve protection of populations, private
and public infrastructure, and farmland against damage by flood or erosion of riverbanks. The nature and
extent of risks associated with the pre-project situation were not quantified, but it was clear that protection
levees along certain sections of major rivers had either been destroyed or severely weakened, which would
cause flooding during future high flow occurrences, with subsequent hardship to rural people. No
economic evaluation of benefits from investment in this sub-component was carried out at appraisal (none
being required, since FEP was prepared as an Emergency Recovery Project). The detailed assessment of
risks would have been a complex exercise and, at the time, the priority was to proceed with
rehabilitation/reconstruction.

        In the course of project implementation, priority riverbank sections were chosen and each
sub-project thus selected was subjected to technical and economic scrutiny by consultants and supervision
missions to evaluate the least-cost, durable engineering solution which would attain the national norms of
protection against flood risk. For settlements, that is protection against 1:200 year flood discharges.
Embankment protection norms provide for lining up to the level of a 1:200 year flood event, but the
embankment body itself is somewhat higher, and can provide a greater level of protection. A simplified
economic evaluation was carried out comparing the expected investment cost of the sub-project with the
value of housing and other infrastructure, as well as the value of potential agricultural losses, within an
area which could be flooded by a 1:200 year event. The flood envelope for each sub-project was defined
largely along contours, with correction through local enquiries. Strictly speaking, as an economic
assessment, this methodology had flaws: it entirely omitted consideration of probability/risk as well as the
expected life of the embankments; no account was taken of potential losses from higher frequency flood
events which the rehabilitated embankments would also prevent; and those cases where protection was also
to protect high river banks from erosion and collapse (Aravan Sai) were addressed as only being at flood
risk. Essentially, the methodology implied that "without-project", settlements (or parts of settlements) at
risk from a 1:200 year flood would have to be relocated and the cost of relocation would be the declared
current value of the housing and infrastructure, while agricultural lands would be subjected to a flood quite
soon.

        During implementation, a survey of 1,000 households was also carried out to investigate the
socio-economic impact of floods (in general) on local communities. It is now generally acknowledged that
flood risk imposes not only economic, but also psychological harm. Besides, households did not want
relocation, which is also difficult in southern Kyrgyzstan, the most densely populated part of the country
with limited productive agricultural land.

1.2. Assessment of Impact

        Estimates of the numbers of households and direct beneficiaries of improved flood protection under
each sub-project are set out in Table 11.1 (see end of this Annex) along with construction costs. Estimates
of the amount and value of other infrastructure benefiting from improved protection are given in Table
11.2. Over 110,000 people have seen protection of their settlements improve as a result of the project and
some 40,000 of these living in the flood zone now have immediate protection for their persons, homes, and


                                                     - 41 -

possessions. For those in these potential flood areas, the embankments provide an increased sense of
security. For example, in Suzak and Aravan, there are traumatic memories of previous floods which forced
people to climb to their roofs or flee for their lives. Flood alarms were also frequent. In Aravan, prior to
embankment construction there have been, throughout recent years, frequent occasions when forecast
floods have caused people to evacuate their homes at short notice. The socio-economic survey shows that
any serious flood (warning) results in disruption to schools, communications, shops, and services, which
affect the whole settlement as well as impinging on the wider community living in the settlements or
needing to travel through it.

         The level of protection now afforded to all settlements is improved. The exceptions are along the
Kugart and Aravan Sai Rivers. The Agricultural Support Services Project (ASSP) is now financing
reconstruction of embankments along the lower section of the Kugart River (see Section 1.4 below). Along
the Aravan Sai River small sections at the extreme low ends of the raion center have not been secured to
complete 1:200 year protection for economic reasons. Floods may still break through such weaker sections
at the bottom end of the center, although the impact is expected to be very marginal.

         Local employment generated is estimated at around 120,000 mandays of unskilled labor, including
65,000 mandays for assembling/filling Reno mattresses (@ 0.85 m3/manday) and 45,000 mandays for rock
placement (@ 8 m3/manday). Employment was also generated for contractors and their staff, as well as for
the firm of consulting engineers engaged to design and supervise the works.

1.3. Embankments on Rivers Planned in the PAD

         Kara Darya (downstream of the Andijan dam): The PAD foresaw the rehabilitation of 3.5 km of
embankments. FEP only reconstructed 562 m of embankment in 3 severely damaged high priority sections
upstream of Jide Villages with a population over 3,200, with its agricultural land lying between the river's
left bank and the Uzbek border. Proposals for further works on the Kara Darya under FEP were rejected in
favor of securing improved control of releases from the Andijan Dam (managed by Uzbekistan). Some
other small sections have been repaired by MEE and FMPA respectively, but the sections reconstructed by
FEP are of superior quality. However, the most significant contribution towards securing the overall
protection of the villages along the Kara Darya from flooding may be the agreement achieved, at the
insistence of the IDA Task Team, between Jalal-Abad Oblast DWR and the Uzbek reservoir management
under a Protocol signed in 2002 on exchange of information and on regulating discharges from the dam.
Records indicate that maximum discharges from the dam have not since reached even 60 percent of the
levels registered in 1998 and only about 1/3 of the design discharge (see Table 11.3).

         Kara Kuldja: Two linked sections of embankment (Sections 4 and 5) protect from flooding a
small settlement of houses (population about 2,000) and 6 industrial units (including a road maintenance
depot with offices) built within the river plain itself. A third (Section 2) protects the intake of the Keniz
Bai canal (capacity 800 l/sec) providing irrigation water to plots in and around the town of Kara Kuldja,
and the last (Section 1) protects from erosion a cliff which supports reservoirs and boreholes providing the
water supply for the raion center of Kara Kuldja (population about 11,000). Full 1:200 year flood
protection has been secured for all those living in the river plain as well as for the whole town's water
supply for domestic use and irrigation.

         Tar: FEP constructed a single left bank embankment extending the entire length of the river-front
of Sai village (population about 2,200), which is built in the river plain and was previously protected,
precariously, by an embankment built by MEE. An attempt had already been made to relocate the entire



                                                       - 42 -

settlement on higher ground, but this alternative was rejected by the population and authorities because of
the impracticability of supplying the new location with irrigation. The village suffered badly during the
1998 floods which also destroyed much of the existing embankment. As in the case of Kara Kuldja, FEP
has prevented the uprooting of the resident population. Existing water supply for domestic use and
irrigation has been safeguarded for the village, as well as personal safety for 1:200 year floods.
Essentially, the entire livelihood for the population has been secured in their home environment.

         Sokh: FEP constructed four sections of embankment totalling 3.75 km over a stretch of river
totalling 15 km, protecting a population of about 2,300 in three villages. Two sections protect the cliff on
which Otukchu Village is built, while the other two sections protect from flooding Ak Turpak and Kyzyl
Korgon Villages. The embankments also protect the main access road to the villages. Upstream of this
stretch of river, in Uzbekistan, lies the Sokh reservoir (capacity 90 million m3). High releases of water
from this reservoir in May 2000 caused damage to ongoing works, later satisfactorily completed. A flood
close to the design discharge of the embankments occurred in 2003 without, reportedly, causing damage to
the embankments or villages. Short of a disastrous failure at the dam, the villages appear to be protected
from river flood flows.

         Yassy: Three sections of embankment reconstructed by FEP have succeeded in training the river
and protecting the entire settlement of Myrza Aky (total population about 14,000, with about 2,800 people
living directly in the flood zone) against 1:200 year floods. The embankments have also assured a
permanent intake structure and conveyance canal for irrigation of some 500 ha from the Zai Bukar Canal
which serves the town.

1.4. Embankments on Rivers Not Planned in the PAD

         Kugart (population around project sites about 49,000): Severe flooding had originated in 1998 in
Suzak Raion Center along the Kugart River, causing hundreds of households to be temporarily resettled.
The most urgent sections of embankment immediately downstream of the Bishkek-Osh bridge and inside
Suzak were completed under the Post-Flood works of IRP. FEP complemented these works by
reconstructing the Kok Art bridge in Suzak at the downstream end of this section, raising it in order that it
would no longer cause a bottleneck to flood flows, and by rehabilitating embankments in 3 sections of river
upstream of the Bishkek-Osh bridge. Flooding had occurred in this stretch earlier in the 1990s and the
1998 flood flows had further weakened the defenses. Flood protection for Suzak and a series of villages
upstream is now much improved. The upstream end of the town, together with the Bishkek-Osh road
crossing, and significant industrial installations, have been materially safeguarded against 1:200 year
floods. In 2003 a flood greater than that of 1998 passed the new embankments, causing no significant
damage or overtopping (see Table 11.3). However, sections of embankment downstream of the sections
reconstructed under the project were weakened by the 2003 floods. Some floods emergency repairs were
carried out by contractors engaged by DWR, including clearing sediment. IDA then agreed to use about
US $2 million unused funds from the ASSP for further flood levee strengthening works downstream of the
Kok Art bridge in order to protect the lower reaches of Suzak town and settlements on the opposite bank.
A modification of ASSP was prepared early 2004 and construction works are currently ongoing.

         Aravan (population about 23,000): FEP has entirely redesigned and reconstructed flood
protection works along both sides of a 3.5 km stretch of river immediately upstream, and through the
center, of the raion town of Aravan where old embankments were dilapidated. The new protection
embankments and drop structures will effectively protect the major part of the town from 1:200 year floods
and, by reducing flow rates, should dissipate the destructive force of flood flows through the remaining



                                                      - 43 -

stretch of river, lower in the town.

         Kara Suu/Kara Jigach River System: Scattered villages, with a total population of about 11,000
have been protected. Eight sections of river embankment have been constructed, providing 1:200 year
protection for six villages in an area which has recently experienced civil unrest.

2. Irrigation

         The purpose of the irrigation interventions was to prevent losses which could be expected from an
irrigation headworks arrangement that would fail to divert water in adequate quantities and at the right time
to irrigation areas. Successive flood flows had already eroded many run-of-river irrigation intakes and
continual training works were needed to assure irrigation supplies. This normally involved the stationing of
bulldozers on-site during the irrigation season. The 1998 floods deteriorated the condition of the
run-of-river intakes and also destroyed major gated headworks on the Sokh and Shakhimardan River.

         The construction of permanent spurs and canal protection embankments has again allowed full
irrigation. Also operation has been much facilitated and the risk of temporary interruption of supplies has
been reduced. The areas and villages benefiting from FEP works are listed in Table 11.4. They amount to
about 34,300 ha and around 24 villages. In the case of Sokh headworks, the rehabilitation of the
headworks allowed serving a much expanded command area on the Burganda scheme (16,600 ha), which
has now been rehabilitated under the IRP program. The cost of FEP works varied from US $31 to US
$104 per ha of command area. This is modest in relation to the agricultural production assured. However,
in few schemes, additional maintenance works and repairs have also been required (done under IRP) to
ensure full supply of water.

         The total cost of maintaining a bulldozer at each of the run-of-river sites during the irrigation
season is estimated at about US $10,000 annually. This amounts to some US $0.55 million over a 25 year
period, compared with a capital cost of US $1.06 million for the run-of-river schemes. Taking this cost
saving from the total capital cost of irrigation works of US $2.05 million, the remaining capital cost of US
$57 per ha would be covered by an annual yield increase of 1-2 percent, which according to interviews with
farmers should have been easily achieved. It is reasonable to deduce that increased reliability of water
supply, together with the cost savings achieved by the project, will have generated a value of benefits
exceeding by far the costs of the works.




                                                     - 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

           Table 11.3 Maximum Flood Discharges on FEP Rivers

                      1:200 year          1998 Max flood at/after construction
                          m3/sec       m3/sec       m3/sec         year
Kara Darya                  1,270          750          400       2003
Kara Kuldja                   254          138          240       2003
Tar                           549          NA           240       2003
Sokh                          325          220          320       2003
Yassy                         680          359          188       2002

Kugart                        353          NA           510       2003
Aravan Sai                    220          NA           195       2003
Kara Suu/Kara Jigach          200          NA           NA

Source:   Reports produced for and by supervision missions.
Note:     Several gauging stations out of order during floods.




                                   - 47 -

                               Table 11.4 Benefits of Irrigation Sub-projects

Oblast   River/         Scheme                Cost        IRP/OIP    Village         Hectares Cost/ha
                                              $000                                              $
Jalalabad
         Kugart         Zernovoy              558         Yes        Leninskoye
                                                          (maint)    Bagush            5,388   104
                                                                     Kugart



         Kara Ungur Sai Katta Tegermen         47                                        475   99

Osh      Yassy          Atamkul               173         Yes        Ilichovka         2,090   83
                                                          (maint)    Gerentche
                                                                     Kyzyl Ijan

         Aravan Sai     Naiman                113                                      1,500   75

         Gulcha/Josholu Savai                  22                                        506   43

         Kara Kulja     Uzgen                 146                    Kari Kochkor      3,054   48
                                                                     Oktiabrski
                                                                     Uzgen Town
                                                                     Nizhny Uzgen
                        Subtotal             1,059                   Aigr Jal
                        Run of river                                 Kenesh
                                                                     Kashka Terek
                                                                     Uzgurush

Batken   Sokh           Burganda              708         Yes        Ak Turpak        16,600   43
                                                                     Kyrgyz Kyshtak

         Shakhimardan   Shakhimardan          288         Yes        Halmiyon          4,740   61
                                                                     Tash Dobe
                        (2 WUAs)                                     Podkhoz
                                                                     Nougardan
                        Subtotal              996                    Chekelik
                        Headworks                                    Joshuk
                                                                     Jarkoton
                                                                     Alga

         TOTAL                               2,055                        24          34,353




                                           - 48 -

- 49 -

