Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18701-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT
December 29, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Turkmenistan Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1998)
Currency Unit = Som
Som 1= US$ 0.04
US$ 1 = Som 25
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                  Asian Development Bank
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CC                   Coordinating Committee
DWR                  Department of Water Resources of MOAWR
EA                   Enviromnental Assessment
EIRR                 Economic Internal Rate of Return
ERL                  Emergency Recovery Loan
FEP                  Flood Emergency Project
FY                   Fiscal Year
Gabion               A double twisted wire mesh container of variable size, filled on site with stones
to form flexible, permeable monolithic structures
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                  International Development Association
IRP                  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
LACI                 Loan Administration Change Initiative
M&E                  Monitoring and Evaluation
MECD                 Ministry of Emergency and Civil Defense
MOAWR                Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MOEP                 Ministry of Environmental Protection
MOF                  Ministry of Finance
NGO                  Non-governmental Organization
NPV                  Net Present Value
O&M                  Operation and Maintenance
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PMR                  Project Management Report
PY                   Project Year
TA                   Technical Assistance
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director:    Kevin Cleaver
Task Team Leader:   Joop Stoutiesdijk
-11-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            11
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        12
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           12
2. Financial                                                                          13
3. Technical                                                                           13
4. Institutional                                                                       14
5. Social                                                                              14
6. Environmental assessment                                                            14
7. Participatory approach                                                              15
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                            17
2. Other                                                                                17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           20
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     22
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          29
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    30
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      39
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                        40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             42
MAP(S)
IBRD 30007
-IV-



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Flood Emergency Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Country Operations Division
Date: December 29, 1998                            Team Leader: Joop Stoutjesdijk
Country Manager/Director: Kiyoshi Kodera           Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: 62682                                  Sector(s): AI - Irrigation & Drainage, MY - Other
Non-sector Specific
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan (ERL)   Theme(s): Rural Development
Pove.  Taeted Intervention: No
Project Financing Data
O Loan          1 Credit        O Grant         3I Guarantee    O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 10
Proposed Terms: Ol To be defined   1 Multicurrency  El Single currency
EO Standard Variable El Fixed       El LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):             10
Years to maturity:               35
Commitment fee:                  0.5%
Service charge                   0.75%
Government                                                       4.1             0.0           4.1
IBRD                                                             0.0             0.0           0.0
IDA                                                              14              8.6          10.0
Total:                                                           5.5             8.6          14.1
Borrower: Kyrgyz Republic
Guarantor:
Responsible agency:
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources (MOAWR)
Implementing agency(ies):
The Project Implementation Unit of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Credit 3063-KG)
Address: Dushambinskaya Street 4a; Bishkek
Contact Person: Mr. Darman Alibaev, Director
Tel: +996-312-212933                 Fax: +996-312-212933                 Email:



|Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual      1.8          4.6          3.6
Cumulative     1.8           6.4        10.0
Project implementation period: 24 months
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/99  Expected closing date:  09/30/2001
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998
-2 -



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project is of an emergency nature. Its objective is to rehabilitate or reconstruct: (i) damaged
flood protection infrastructure along rivers; and (ii) irrigation infrastructure, which, if unattended, could
lead to loss of human life and economic losses beyond acceptable levels, such as could be expected from a
river changing its course and eroding inhabited river banks during another flood or from an irrigation
headworks arrangement that would fail to divert water in adequate quantities and at the right time to
irrigation areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Ainex 1)
Progress towards the development objective would be measured based on: (i) the rapid rehabilitation or
reconstruction of river banks, flood protection infrastructure and primary irrigation infrastructure; and (ii)
the ability to maintain delivery of irrigation water to about 39,000 ha.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: 17641-KG                         Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/07/98
The project is not directly addressed in the CAS, as it responds to a national emergency (flooding) that
occurred after the CAS discussion;. The requested emergency assistance for the financing of post-flood
rehabilitation and reconstruction does, however, complement and bolster IDA's strategy and activities in the
irrigation sector.
Despite the emergency character of the project, it would support the CAS goal to attain sustained growth.
The restoration of the works needed to protect public and private property and utilities and agricultural
land, as well as the works needed to maintain the water supply to about 39,000 ha of irrigated land (four
percent of the country's total irrigated area), would contribute to this CAS goal.
If rehabilitation or reconstruction would not take place, the next floods may erode river banks further and
take irrigation area out of production. This could lead to loss of irrigated areas, which could affect the
livelihood of about 10,000 farm families. Osh and Jalal-Abad oblasts have the highest population density
in the country and the lowest area of arable land per capita, which is less than 0.5 ha per person in some
areas. By reinstating infrastructure, the project would mitigate the poverty impact of the flooding.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
The Floods: As a result of excessive spring precipitation and snow melt during May and June 1998, the
southern oblasts of Jalal-Abad and Osh were affected by heavy floods. High river discharges are an annual
occurrence during spring and early summer, but this year the floods were the highest experienced since
1927, when river discharge measurements started. It was calculated that the 1998 floods related to around
1 in 100 year flood occurrence in most of the oblasts. The fact that critical river measuring stations were
out of order gave rise to some dispute about the flood levels, with the regional administration authorities
claiming much higher flood return periods. Different from other years was that many areas in the oblasts
-3 -



received rainfall for extended periods of time, which kept discharges high in many rivers. Thus damage
was not only caused by the peak flash floods, but in the case of river banks and flood protection
infrastructure and irrigation headworks also by the continuing bombardment of bed load filled river
discharges. The absence of flood warning systems exacerbated the situation in a number of villages along
the major rivers.
The heavy rains also generated hundreds of land- and mud-slides. Both types of slide can be extremely
damaging to life and infrastructure, as they generally destroy anything in their path. When reaching river
beds, land slides can create bunds across the river, leading to temporary reservoirs. When the bunds break
eventually, new flood peaks are generated in the river. Considering the random occurrence of both types of
slides, no preventive measures for protection against slides exist.
All major rivers have flood protection in place. Due to the severe floods, in several instances made worse
by incorrectly designed or constructed flood protection works and / or inadequate maintenance of
infrastructure, substantial damage occurred to river banks, levees and other flood protection works,
including spurs. A number of irrigation works were damaged for the same reasons as well; (i) gated intake
structures across rivers were generally damaged in their downstream protection areas through the
prolonged bombardment with bed load, including large boulders, and the subsequent erosion of underlying
material, which led to the instability of the structures; and (ii) many intake spurs, constructed in the river
parallel to the river banks to guide water towards intake structures, were washed away by the erosive force
of the flood water. The same happened to the spurs that were meant to protect these intake guiding walls
and conveyance canals next to the river banks. River bank erosion also occurred where the rivers were
unprotected and changed or tried to change their course. In addition, agricultural land was flooded, which
caused crop damage. Damages away from the river beds occurred mainly from side inflow of water and
sediments into irrigation canals or drain crossings. The sediments plugged canals and led to uncontrolled
spilling and thus to erosion of canal banks. Drain crossings were either erosive to over- or under-passes of
canals and particularly endangered elevated canals on hill slopes.
The heavy rains and snow melt quickly filled a glacier lake and eventually destroyed a wall on July 7,
1998, which then led to a flood raging through the Shari-Mardan river, which claimed several hundreds
lives in the enclave of Shari-Mardan in Uzbekistan and damaged or destroyed irrigation infrastruacture in
the Kyrgyz Republic.
In addition to water-related infrastructure damages, the floods damaged and destroyed about 1,000 private
houses and public buildings in Suzak village along the Kugart river in Jalal-Abad oblast, as well as roads,
bridges, public water supply, telecommunication systems and energy transmission lines in that village and
other parts of the oblasts.
The total physical flood related damages are estimated at US$ 75 to 100 million.
Government and Donor Response: Government and bi- and multi-lateral donors provided relief support
immediately after the floods. Thousands of flood victims were assisted with shelter and basic necessities.
Private contractors and the army were mobilized to provide temporary repairs to levees (especially through
dumping of large diameter rocks), to defend endangered hydraulic structures (dumping of rocks into the
tailraces), and to erect temporary irrigation inlet structures (through the use of bed load material to re-erect
the intake spurs to ensure as much as possible the 1998 summer irrigation water intake; however, these
temporary spurs are not constructed to last through the next flood seasons). The construction of new
houses for flood victims, and repairs to roads and water supply systems was also started soon after the
floods. At the Government's request IDA and the ADB launched a joint mission in July 1998, with IDA
- 4 -



focusing on river protection and irrigation and the ADB on other infrastructure. The ADB approved a
project of US$ 5 million in late November 1998, for repair of public infrastructure, including roads,
bridges and utilities.
IDA Response: The IDA assessment mission which focused on river bank protection works and irrigation
infrastructure, proposed a two pronged response: (i) in line with par. 3 (b) of OP 8.50 on Emergency
Recovery Assistance, modification of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP; Credit 3063-KG) to
allocate up to US$ 4 million for the most critical emergency rehabilitation works. This modification was
approved on a no-objection basis by the IDA Board of Directors on December 2, 1998; and (ii)
development of an additional US$ 10 million Flood Emergency Credit.
Flood damage was inflicted on 38 irrigation systems and 12 rivers. Of these, the most critical repair and
reconstruction was needed along the Kugart river in Suzak village as well as six irrigation headworks.
These works are to be rehabilitated under the modified IRP and construction is expected to start
immediately after the 1998/99 winter and should be substantially completed by mid-1999. Of the
remaining damages, those classified as very urgent (i.e. infrastructure could be endangered by regular
spring floods; classification based on initial assessments, but subject to further field investigations)
occurred in 5 rivers and 16 irrigation schemes (listed in Annex 2). The necessary rehabilitation or
reconstruction works on these projects would be financed from this proposed Flood Emergency Project
(FEP).
Major Issue
Future Sustainability of Infrastructure: All river infrastructure is designed to allow safe passage of
200-year flood levels in populated areas. Rivers along agricultural lands and all major irrigation
headworks are designed to safely experience floods with return periods of 1 in 100 years. The floods of
1998 reached about 100-year return levels, which should have passed safely in most instances, provided the
river protection structures were designed correctly and the works were well maintained. As both these
factors were inadequate, substantial damages occurred not only in areas protected for 1 00-year floods, but
even in areas where 200-year protection was ostensibly provided.
Proper and timely maintenance is critical to safeguard the proposed investments and reduce the impact of
future floods. Improved maintenance of irrigation infrastructure is supported under the IRP. Provision of
adequate annual operation and maintenance (O&M) budget to the Department of Water Resources (DWR)
is also a condition under that Project. A budget proposal of Som 350 million for the DWR for 1999 has
been submitted to Parliament for approval. Government is committed to raise this budget to Som 400
million in the year 2000. The National Irrigation Rehabilitation Action Plan that is expected to be prepared
in 1999 in accordance with the IRP program, would prepare a medium and long-term vision for the
irrigation sub-sector. It is expected to analyze, inter alia, needed O&M requirements for irrigation
infrastructure after 2000, future contributions to the DWR budget from water users, mechanisms for future
handing-over of initially minor and ultimately major infrastructure to users to increasingly relieve
government of O&M activities, and institutional needs at all levels. The Government has firmed up grant
financing to carry out the study as planned. The On-farm Irrigation Project, which is currently under
preparation, would have as major components the establishment of Water Users Organizations,
rehabilitation of on-farm irrigation infrastructure and assistance to the handing-over of operation and
maintenance of selected irrigation infrastructure to users.
Future maintenance of river protection works and flood warning systems has been discussed in detail with
Government, including roles for the Ministry of Emergency and Civil Defense (MECD), DWR, and/or
-5-



local administration authorities, in cooperation with the communities. As this maintenance involves public
infrastructure, necessary financial resources would be made available from the budget. Assurances have
been obtained from Government that a study would be carried out before June 30, 2000, to assess actual
maintenance needs of flood protection infrastructure in the country and to propose the required institutional
arrangements, including necessary needs to strengthen operational capacity, for the monitoring and
maintenance of river protection works (see also Section F. 1). In addition, Government agreed with the IDA
to not simply rebuild the destroyed infrastructure, but where possible to improve the designs of
infrastructure, not only to reduce the impact of future floods on the infrastructure, but also to reduce the
routine maintenance requirements (see Section C for further details on design options).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The floods exposed the weaknesses with respect to lack of maintenance of flood protection facilities and
irrigation infrastructure, as well as the lack of flood warning systems. They also exposed weaknesses in
the design of hydraulic structures, particularly those concerning river bank protection and irrigation intake
structures. Simply rebuilding the damaged infrastructure would in many instances render the infrastructure
subject again to new destruction, should similar floods occur in future.
As to the irrigation intake structures across rivers, the basic design durability would be improved through
adequate construction materials and improved construction quality. The design and construction of river
embankment protection, including levees and spurs, and irrigation intake spurs would be improved to
guarantee better sustainability.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Project would constitute a two-year program for post-flood rehabilitation and reconstruction of flood
damaged or destroyed infrastructure at selected sites throughout Osh and Jalal-Abad oblasts. In particular,
the project would cover the protection of embankments along five rivers (Kara-Darya, Kara-Kuldja, Tar,
Sokh and Yassy) as well as numerous repairs in up to 16 irrigation schemes that would safeguard the water
supply to about 39,000 ha of irrigated land.
There would be two project components: (a) rehabilitation and reconstruction of river protection and
irrigation infrastructure, and establishment of a flood warning system; and (b) project rnanagement and
implementation support.
(a) Rehabilitation and Reconstruction of River Protection and Irrigation Infrastructure, and Establishment
of a Flood Warning System: The project would finance repair and rehabilitation of about nine km of
eroded river embankments in five rivers, together with rehabilitation or reconstruction of 23 protective
spurs. The most suitable design for each of the sub-projects would be determined by design consultants.
Some of the design work is already ongoing, and initial indications are that there should be more emphasis
on: (i) the application of a proper filter layer for the levees, accurate placement of rocks (rip-rap) and the
use of selected gravel to reduce the volume of voids between rocks; (ii) the application of gabions,
including proper gabion mat foundations, and the use of rocks at exposed gabion positions to avoid
abrasion of the wire mesh; and (iii) vegetative material to be integrated with the civil structures as a
biological means to reduce flow velocities near the structures and thus destructive action by the water and
bed load.
-6 -



The project would also finance the rehabilitation and reconstruction of selected irrigation infrastructure
inside and outside of river beds at up to 16 different sites. Within the river beds, sub-projects that would be
rehabilitated or reconstructed would include intake spurs, irrigation conveyance canals and their
embankments, spurs to protect such embankments, and gated headworks. Outside the river beds the repair
works would include drain overpass reconstruction, spillway reconstruction from debris dams and repair of
concrete lining. As in the case for river protection works, the most suitable design would be identified for
such infrastructure as intake spurs and protective spurs. Other structures would be repaired to the
prevailing design standards.
This project component would also re-establish critical river gauging stations and initiate the establishment
of a flood warning system in the Kugart river basin.
A number of sub-projects planned for implementation during Project Year I (PYI) are currently being
studied by the Kyrgyz Design Institute (DI). It is expected that designs and bidding documents would be
ready in time to have contractors selected and mobilized immediately after the 1998/99 winter. Other
sub-projects have been identified (see Annex 2), but there would be some flexibility to include other
sub-projects, if detailed field investigations would indicate that these are of higher priority. Each
sub-project would need to be approved by the IDA on a case by case basis.
(b) Project Management and Implementation Support: The project would provide funding for: (i)
incremental staff and limited equipment for the existing Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that was
established in the DWR for the IRP; technical assistance (TA) to support the DWR in designing and
supervising the implementation of the works; and modeling and audit services; and (ii) training activities
and two study tours of staff from DWR, MECD and oblast administrations to countries where different
river protection constructions, including gabions, are common.
Indleative               lnk,         %o
gIr   ,omponent                  Sector          Co?t'         %of?$   f      g _,,,    , v i nBank-
(US$M)  Total    3~~)     ninancing
A. Rehabilitation/reconstruction of                         13.4       95.0          9.4      70.1
River Protection and Irrigation
Infrastructure and Flood Warning
System
A. 1. River Embankments
A.2. Spurs
A.3. Irrigation Infrastructure
inside River Beds
A.4. Irrigation Infrastructure
outside River Beds
A.5. River Gauging Stations and
Flood Warning System
B. Project Management and                                    0.7         5.0         0.6      85.7
Implementation Support
Total Project Costs                         14.1      100.0         10.0      70.9
Total Financing Required                         14.1       100.0        10.0       70.9
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project is classified as an emergency project, and would not support specific key policies and major
institutional reforms. However, it includes institutional support to enhance the sustainability of river
protection through promotion of improved designs, modeling of hydraulic works, introduction of a flood
warning system and strengthening of the DWR through TA. It also allows the national privatized
contractor industry opportunities for substantial participation. The project is consistent with IDA's
irrigation sub-sector approach.
3. Benefits and target population:
Project Benefits: The project would repair or reconstruct an estimated nine km of embankments at
different locations along rivers, together with over 20 protective spurs. This would provide protection for
25 villages with a total population of around 38,000 people, public and private infrastructure, including
roads and electricity and communication lines, and agricultural lands along the endangered river stretches.
The repair or reconstruction of irrigation infrastructure would assure adequate irrigation water supply to
about 39,000 ha.
Involvement in construction and subsequent maintenance activities by national civil works contractors
would boost the development of local construction firms. A large number of construction activities are
expected to involve manual labor (e.g. assembling and filling gabion baskets), which would provide
employment opportunities for both skilled and unskilled workers.
Target Population: The project targets all people living near the rivers or having land in one of the 16
irrigation schemes. This population would directly benefit from the project. The population in the
irrigation schemes is estimated to include 10,000 rural farm families. The rural areas in Jalal-Abad and
Osh oblasts are classified as the lowest income areas in the country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Project implementation is anticipated to take 24 months (from April 1999 to
March 2001). The Credit Closing Date is September 30, 2001. Preparatory activities, such as the
preparation of designs and bidding documents for PYI sub-projects, are already well under way.
Executing Agencies and Implementation Arrangements: The MOAWR would have overall responsibility
for project implementation. A PIU, established for the IRP, would also be responsible for the daily
management, administration and coordination of this project, including project accounting, procurement,
disbursement, management of the Special Account, preparation of progress reports, and ensuring timely
audits and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The PIU for the IRP is headed by a Director, directly
responsible to the First Deputy Minister of the MOAWR, who is also the General Director of the DWR.
Other professional PIU staff in place, who would have direct involvement in the project implementation are:
an Irrigation Engineer, a Procurement Specialist; an Accountant; and an Office Manager, also with
responsibility for M&E aspects. The PIU would employ a Civil Engineer and Construction Engineer,
based in Osh, for the duration of the project. In addition, the PIU would contract Resident Engineers with
direct responsibility for contract management and construction supervision during the implementation of
the sub-projects.
Project implementation would be carried out in close cooperation with the Ministry of Emergency and Civil
Defense, both at central and oblast level, and Jalal-Abad and Osh oblast administrations.
- 8 -



A consulting frm, with support of individual consultants with specialty in the design-of flood protection
works, has already been engaged by Government to prepare feasibility studies, designs and bidding
documents for a number of PYI sub-projects. The remaining sub-projects would be prepared by
consultants during project implementation. Consultants would also assist the PIU with overall contract
management and construction supervision.
A pipeline of proposed sub-projects has been selected at appraisal (see Annex 2 for detailed tables). The
feasibility study of each sub-project would be subject to IDA review and approval, in accordance with
agreed procedures and eligibility criteria. Feasibility studies of those sub-projects for which
implementation is expected to start in April 1999 will be submitted to the IDA early January 1999. The
last of the feasibility studies for sub-projects to be implemented during PY2 would be submitted to the IDA
around September 30, 1999. The sub-projects would be implemented in accordance with terms and
conditions agreed with the IDA.
The PIU would submit to IDA, for its review, not later than July 31 of each year, a work program for
sub-project implementation activities to be carried out during the following year.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and AuditingArrangements: The Borrower and the implementing
agency would maintain adequate financial management systems, including accounting, financial reporting,
and auditing, to ensure that accurate and timely information with respect to project resources and
expenditures is available. The project accounts would be managed by the PIU, which has recently started
working according to similar arrangements on the IRP. The accounts would identify all sources and uses
of funds in carrying out the project, including detailed accounting of the use of the proceeds of the Credit
and the operation of the Special Account.
The project accounts would be audited by the independent audit frm that has been hired through an
open-ended contract to audit the accounts of the IRP. The audit reports would be submitted to the
MOAWR and to the IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year, which in the Kyrgyz Republic is
the calendar year. The audit reports would contain a separate opinion on the operation of the Special
Account and the Statement of Expenditure procedure, if utilized. The amendment of the contract with the
audit firm, acceptable to the IDA, would be a condition for Credit effectiveness. The additional costs for
the audit services would be financed under the implementation support category.
A preliminary assessment of the financial management system of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IRP)
was carried out by ECA Financial Management Specialists. The proposed project satisfies the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements in that the project's accounting systems are to be
incorporated in all material respects to the accounting systems of the IRP, which was appraised in
December 1997 and which became effective towards the end of September 1998. The PIU for the IRP will
be used for the management of the proposed project as well, and adequate arrangements have been or will
be made at the PIU, including the appointment of a second accountant that was recently concluded, to
handle the increased workload and differences between the two projects' accounting requirements.
A certified Financial Management Specialist is scheduled to join the supervision mission of the IRP in
February 1999 to review and certify the financial management system for the IRP. The specialist would at
the same time review the additional needs for the proposed Flood Emergency Project and design and certify
its accounting system, in compliance with OP 10.02. This certification would be a condition of
effectiveness. During the same mission, the specialist would prepare a time-bound action plan to prepare
for LACI-style disbursements for both the IRP and the FEP at a date to be determined jointly by the
Borrower and the IDA.
-9-



Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements and Reporting: The M&E Specialist in the PIU would monitor
project inputs, outputs and impact. The PIU would prepare quarterly progress reports, which would
include information on: (i) procurement; (ii) completion rate of ongoing sub-projects; (iii) payments made
to contractors; (iv) institutional developments, including training; (v) updates of the performance
indicators; (vi) difficulties encountered, proposed measures to overcome these and assistance required; and
(vii) updates of project cost estimates, procurement plan and implementation schedule. Government has
indicated that, over the medium term, it intents to move towards a PMR-based disbursement process for the
Credit.
Government would prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about March 31, 2000,
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient continuation of the project and the achievements of its objective. The
report would be reviewed with the IDA by June 30, 2000. A project implementation completion report
would be prepared by the PIU within six months of project completion.
Project Oversight: A Coordinating Committee (CC) would be maintained during project implementation to
provide oversight. The CC, which has been established, would meet quarterly, or more frequently when
required, to review progress with project implementation and resolve any general issues related to
inter-agency coordination within the framework of the project. The CC is composed of the Minister of
Finance (Chairman), the First Deputy Chairman of the State Committee on Foreign Investment and
Economic Development, the First Deputy Minister of MOAWR, the First Deputy Minister of
Environmental Protection, the Deputy Minister of MECD, the Deputy Governors of the Osh and
Jalal-Abad oblasts, and the PIU Director (Secretary).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejecidon:
Designs of Structures within River Beds: The engineers of the DWR and the Kyrgyz Design Institute
proposed to simply repair or reconstruct all damaged infrastructure, according to existing design standards.
This was rejected as a general principle as some of the structures had proven not flood-worthy for the
design flood levels of either a 100-year or 200-year flood occurrence. In addition, the maintenance
requirements to keep these structures operational according to design would be considerable.
Deferred Maintenance: During the review of all proposed sub-projects, a number of less critical works
(including those which were partly damaged already prior to the 1998 floods) were rejected. This applied
mainly to canal cleaning works where it was clear that there would not be structural failure within the near
future and where immediate rehabilitation would not be critical and as such would not meet the criteria for
inclusion in this emergency operation. Such works could be considered under the ongoing IRP, if they meet
agreed eligibility criteria.
Gabion Factory: Gabion baskets and mattresses to be used under the project for river and irrigation intake
works would need to be imported. Govermnent believes that gabions could be produced cheaper in the
Kyrgyz Republic, possibly through a DWR managed factory. A request for fnancing of a factory could
not be accommodated under the proposed project. Private interest for gabion manufacturing on a
large-scale seems not forthcoming as there is uncertainty about the future demand, with public agencies,
such as the DWR, the MECD and possibly the Road Department, as the only customers. Studies would be
needed to ascertain such aspects as the marketing potential of gabions produced in the Kyrgyz Republic,
- 1 0 -



the interest of private businesses to set up factories, the necessary requirements to produce according to
international standards, the economics of local production versus import, etc. The possibilities of carrying
out such a study are currently being investigated.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
.______________ _  _(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                            Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Deteriorating Irrigation Infrastructure;  Irrigation Rehabilitation Project   S             S
(3063-KG);
Deteriorating Irrigation Infrastructure;  On-farm Irrigation Project
Handing-over of Infrastructure;           (under preparation);
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank: Post-flood         Flood Emergency
Rehabilitation of Public Infrastructure    Rehabilitation Project
(non-water related);                       (approved November 1998);
USAID: Post-flood Rehabilitation;          Flood Response Program (levee
rehabilitation planned for the
Kugart river basin; proposed to
be implemented by Mercy-Corp
NGO);
UNDP, UK, Netherlands, Norway, Canada:    Emergency Assistance to Flood
Post-flood Humanitarian Assistance and     Victims in Suzak Rayon of
Disaster Management;                       Jalal-Abad oblast (completed);
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank-wide experience shows that successful implementation of emergency reconstruction projects includes:
(i) a sound assessment of damages and needs; (ii) simplicity in design and implementation arrangements;
and (iii) a willingness and flexibility to assist local authorities with project preparation.
Experience also shows that simply rebuilding damaged infrastructure is insufficient, and that measures are
needed to reduce the risk of similar future disasters and to safeguard people at risk. One way of achieving
this is to customize designs for each structure. As an example, the use of gabions for river protection
structures and irrigation intake guiding walls has proven sustainable over time in other mountainous
countries, including Bolivia, Italy and Nepal, which have many similar geophysical characteristics as the
Kyrgyz Republic. For example, gabions placed decades ago as bank protection in a river near Bologna,
Italy, are still functioning. Gabions have been used at experimental pilot level in the Kyrgyz Republic.
Gabion mattresses placed some 15 years ago along the Kara Kuldja river in the project area have
functioned well in the past and withstood the 1998 flood without any damages.
- 1 1 -



The low level of maintenance of river protection and irrigation infrastructure was partly responsible for the
severe damages during the 1998 floods. The proposed designs would require much less maintenance.
Implementation experience of civil works in the Former Soviet Union and other regions has shown that
there should be major emphasis on construction quality control.
4. Indications of borrower comniitment and ownership:
Post-flood financial assistance was requested by the President and the Prime Minister in July 1998. The
Office of the President, the Office of the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture and
Water Resources, the Minister of Emergency and Civil Defense and the Minister of Finance have all been
involved in project preparation.
DWR, MECD and oblast administration officials have provided substantial inputs in project preparation,
including the assessment and ranking of priority works. The Government has financed, through the MECD
and the DWR, initial emergency works after the recession of the floods, in order to protect infrastructure
from collapse and to render irrigation systems operative during the remainder of the 1998 crop season.
This project has been designed to complement the ongoing IRP and in conjunction with other donor relief
and reconstruction efforts.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The project would add value by: (i) supporting more sustainable designs of river protection works and
irrigation intake structures; (ii) transferring experience from other countries; (iii) ensuring competitive
procurement procedures; and (iv) improving construction quality control.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
_ Cost-Benefit Analysis:   NPV=US$ million; ERR = %
o Cost Effectiveness Analysis
O Other
A cost-benefit analysis was carried out for three of the irrigation sub-projects, which represents the full
range of construction cost per ha. This cost is US$ 80, 390 and 1,900 for Zernovoi, Sary-Kamysh and
Stari-Ukari Akman respectively. At a discount rate of 15 percent, the EIRR would be 104, 36 and 21
percent and the NPV would be US$ 1.93, 0.29 and 0.05 million for Zernovoi, Sary-Kamysh and
Stari-Ukari respectively. The analysis was based on the following main assumptions: (i) because of the
inadequate water intake arrangements, the yields that were achieved before the floods of 1998 would be
reduced by 20 percent in the "without-project" situation; (ii) in the "with-project" situation this 20 percent
yield reduction can be avoided from PY2 onwards, considering a construction period that is less than one
year for all projects; (iii) in the "without-project" situation annual repair works to the intake arrangement
would be needed to repair flood damages - cost estimated at US$ 25,000, 17,500 and 10,000 for Zernovoi,
Sary-Kamysh and Stari-Ukari respectively; (iv) a typical cropping pattern for Osh and Jalal-Abad oblasts
has been used, including wheat, maize, cotton and lucerne as main crops; and (v) economic prices are kept
constant at the year 2005 projections.
Cost overrun has been identified as one of the risks that could affect the viability of the sub-projects. The
- 12 -



analysis shows that costs could increase by almost 30 percent and even then the most expensive sub-project
would still be economically viable. If the "without-project" yields would reduce by 10 percent only, the
EIRR would range from 18 to 50 percent, holding all other assumptions constant.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Not required.
Fiscal Impact:
Most of the Credit funds would finance civil works. The Government would finance 30 percent of these
civil works, of which around 20 percent comprises local taxes. In addition, Government would fmance the
required net contribution to the Credit of about 10 percent. The DWR should receive adequate budget from
Treasury to finance this counterpart financing, in order not to delay payment to contractors and thus project
implementation. The Ministry of Finance has assured in writing that adequate funds would be made
available for project implementation.
Proper and timely maintenance of river protection works would be critical to safeguard the proposed
investments and reduce the impact of future floods. Government's assurance has been obtained that Som
12.5 million would be allocated in 2000 and at least 20 million in 2001 for the routine maintenance of river
protection works. The budgetary appropriation for future years would be based on the results of a study to
assess in more detail the actual maintenance needs of flood protection infrastructure in the country (see
Section F. I for more details).
3. Technical:
A number of sub-projects sites were visited by the IDA identification and appraisal team and the critical
nature of the proposed works was confirmed. It was agreed with Government that appropriate designs
would be selected for each of the sub-projects, which would be durable and require low maintenance.
Initial indications are that there would be significant use of gabions, particularly for intake spurs and
protective spurs, connection of rocks to each other at exposed positions and use of botanical means such as
plantation of willows along embankments and spurs. Improved construction methods would be introduced,
which would also result in reduced maintenance needs.
The staff of the DWR and the design consulting firm have shown receptiveness to the introduction of new
designs, as indicated in the previous paragraph, which are being introduced with the help of individual
expert consultants. Most of the design work, construction and O&M would be undertaken by the DWR,
national consultants and local contractors. To ensure the viability of the new designs, a hydraulic modeling
institute would be engaged to test critical hydraulic designs, including the positioning of gabion structures
to reduce meandering of rivers within their own beds, which in turn would reduce flow velocities and
therefore the movement of bed load and erosiveness.
During the preparation and implementation of the IRP, the preparation of detailed unit cost price analysis
to arrive at realistic project cost estimates was emphasized. These unit costs have also been used for the
cost estimates of the emergency sub-projects. Sufficient allowance has been made for physical
contingencies of civil works (15 percent) to take care of adjustments, based on detailed topographic surveys
and designs. Price contingencies have been included as well (5.6 - 8.9 percent for local costs and 2.2
percent for foreign costs). Furthermore, there is considerable flexibility to adjust for any cost overrun as
the project consists of many independent sub-projects, some of which, if necessary, could be deleted from
the project without affecting the other sub-projects.
- 13 -



4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
Although following Independence the DWR staff have been severely reduced, capable staff still remain at
all administrative levels. This was demonstrated after the floods, when the DWR moved quickly to bring
damaged irrigation infrastructure back to operation, albeit temporarily and with reduced intake capacity, in
order to save at least the major part of the summer crop. Senior staff, not only of the DWR, but also of the
MECD and Jalal-Abad and Osh oblast administrations, are highly committed to the project and have
participated fully in its preparation. Through the preparation and the ongoing implementation of the IRP,
many staff of the DWR at national and local level have gained experience in the implementation of
investment projects.
b. Project management:
Project management would be carried out by the PIU, which was established in the DWR under the IRP. It
is staffed with national experts, recruited on competitive basis. Some incremental staff would be added. In
addition, the PIU would be supported in the implementation of the project by appropriate technical
consulting firms and individual consultants.
5. Social:
With international support, Government quickly acted to respond to the needs of families who had lost
homes due to the flooding. IDA project preparation thus focused on the rehabilitation and replacement of
physical structures related to irrigation and flood control. The design and implementation of the structures
would be based on the analysis of the existing damage and the application of agreed technical
specifications, which require little local input or formal social assessment. The project would include a
community assessment and monitoring program that aims at engaging local residents in the protection of
structures. Important elements that would rely on local support for sustainability include gabions and
trees, both of which would require local ownership if they are to be protected. Project staff would consult
with communities during the design and construction stage to describe planned works and outline protective
measures that should be taken. In the case of gabions this would apply especially to vandalism. As an
incentive to assume responsibility for trees, residents could be offered saplings to establish small
community woodlots or orchards. At the initial stages of the consultation process, project staff would
conduct rapid assessments of local methods to protect gabions and trees and forest resources. The
consultation would aim to extend local practices to the rehabilitated areas as well. Once a year the
consultations would continue to review the status of the project works and address issues related to
protection measures.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category CI A 1 B El C
The project would finance repair and reconstruction of destroyed and damaged infrastructure. No new
structures are envisaged. The project does not include any investments in dams or involve resettlement.
The project has therefore been classified as Category "B" for the purposes of OD 4.01.
Minor potential negative impacts of the project would relate to: (i) disposal of excavated sediments and
construction materials; and (ii) possible environmental damage caused by contractors during construction
activities. Sediments and other debris would be displaced in an orderly manner, rather than dumped
indiscriminately. Contractors would be required to prevent, minimize or mitigate environmental damage.
- 14 -



This would be described in the tender documents.
Under the existing environmental legislation in the Kyrgyz Republic, Environmental Assessments (EAs)
have to be prepared for investment projects, including rehabilitation projects. This requirement has been
waived by the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MOEP) for this emergency operation. However,
during the design stage of each sub-project all possible environmental factors would be reviewed by the
design consultants. Necessary mitigating measures would be integral parts of design and implementation.
Both the MOEP and the IDA would be informed about mitigating measures through the feasibility and
design reports.
In accordance with the Bank's policy on International Waterways (OP 7.50) notification of riparian
countries is not required, as the proposed works would not adversely change the quality or quantity of
water flows. Works for river bank protection are concerned with flood protection, not flood control. In
addition, the works would not change the nature of the original sub-projects, or alter or expand the scope
and extent as to create a new or different scheme.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
This project has been prepared in close collaboration with ministries, technical agencies, and oblast
administrations to define the project scope, assess investment needs, and prioritize actions. The project will
include a community assessment and monitoring program to ensure sustainability (see para. 5 above). The
types of works, both regarding the protection of rivers and major irrigation infrastructure, do not lend
themselves to a major participatory approach by individuals or small groups. Rayon administration
officials have been in dialogue with affected stakeholders.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Rural inhabitants w6uld benefit from the protection of roads, bridges and related infrastructure. As
irrigated lands are critical factors in most rural employment, the entire population of the affected parts of
the oblasts would benefit.
-15-



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Adequate and regular maintenance of the repaired and reconstructed works, as well as the flood warning
system, would be critical not only to safeguard the proposed investments, but also to reduce the impact of
future floods throughout the country. Such maintenance requires sufficient resources, which have not been
available during the past years, which has led to the severity of the floods. Government would have to
allocate sufficient funds from budgetary allocation for the maintenance of river protection works.
Government's assurance has been obtained that Som 12.5 million would be allocated in 2000 and at least
20 million in 2001 for this routine maintenance. The PIU would also carry out a study to assess the actual
maintenance needs of flood protection infrastructure in the country, which would allow a better estimation
of the needed annual budget appropriations, sufficient to maintain in an operational state all critical flood
protection works, such as levees, spurs, training works and plantings. In specific, the study would: (i)
prepare an inventory of all flood protection infrastructure; (ii) identify maintenance needs; (iii) estimate a
detailed budget requirement from 2001 onwards to carry out this maintenance; and (iv) propose the
required institutional arrangements for the monitoring and maintenance of river protection works. The
actual annual appropriations would be based upon detailed submission by the ministry or agency with
responsibility for maintenance of the flood protection works, to be made by June 30 of each year. Before
submitting to Parliament, the draft budget proposals would be submitted for review to IDA, showing that
the agreed budgetary allocations for the maintenance of rivers and river protection works have been
included.
In order to reduce the fiscal impact, the project would, where possible, introduce improved designs for
infrastructure which would require less maintenance, as well as engineering solutions to reduce the imnpact
of floods and sediment flows. Incremental O&M required for the irrigation infrastructure r epaired under
the project would be in conformity with the arrangements agreed upon under the ongoing IRP.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient Government budget for            S         Govermnent has commrtitted itself to submit
maintenance of river embankments                        O&M budget proposals to Parliament from 2000
onwards;
Insufficient Government budget for O&M of     M         Government has alreacly committed itself to
irrigation infrastructure                              submit substantially increased O&M budget
proposals to Parliamert from 1999 onwards. An
increasing part of the necessary budget would be
generated by users;
From Components to Outputs
Cost overruns during project implementation   M         Much attention has been paid to costing of
sub-projects during project preparation. In the
event of cost overruns lower priority sub-projects
would be deleted;
-16-



Insufficient budget allocation for project     S         Government has severe budget constraints and
implementation                                           allocations to ministries and departments are
generally very low and insufficient. The project
has a high priority within Government and there
is commitnent to provide the necessary
budgetary resources. The MOF has assured that
sufficient budget provisions for 1999 and future
years would be made to cover local contribution
to project implementation and the operation of
the PIU. A letter to this effect from the Minister
of Finance has been received by the IDA;
Unsatisfactory capability of local contractors  N        Local contractors have already received training
to implement sub-projects                                in competitive bidding process; many
sub-projects are small; training and close
supervision would be provided in proper
placement of rip-rap and gabion construction;
much operational construction equipment
remains with contractors;
Insufficient professional staff in DWR to      N         Government has agreed to use the PIU, that has
implement project                                        already been established under the IRP, assisted
by TA;
Overall Risk Rating                            M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
None.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1 Effectiveness Conditions
(i)    The engineering design documents and bidding documents for the sub-projects for the first year of
project implementation shall have been completed in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)    A civil engineer and a construction engineer, with qualifications, experience and terns of reference
satisfactory to the Association, shall have been appointed to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project;
(iii)  Independent auditors, acceptable to the Association, shall have been appointed; and
(iv)   A financial management system, satisfactory to the Association, shall have been established.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Management: The Borrower shall maintain until project completion: (i) the Coordinating Committee; and
(ii) the PIU with the necessary expertise to manage the FEP, with all needed responsibility assigned for
overall project implementation and coordination. The PIU should have adequate budget to carry out its
responsibilities. TORs of PIU staff should be satisfactory to the IDA.
Project Implementation: The Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Project
- 17 -



Implementation Plan; (ii) carry out each sub-project in accordance with all applicable Bank procedures,
agreed eligibility criteria and agreed terns and conditions; (iii) engage consultants, in agreement with and
satisfactory to the IDA, to assist the DWR and PIU in the preparation of designs and bidding documents,
and in construction supervision; (iv) prepare and submit to the IDA for review, not later than July 31 of
each year, a work plan for project implementation for the following year; (v) before submitting to the
Parliament, submit to the IDA for review the annual budget allocation proposals from 2000 onwards for
the maintenance of rivers and river protection works; and (vi) prepare and submit to the IDA for review,
not later than June 30, 2000, a study assessing the actual maintenance needs for river protection works in
the country.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting: The Borrower will: (i) maintain policies and procedures adequate to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the IDA, the
carrying out of the project and the achievement of the project's objective; (ii) through the PIU, prepare
quarterly project progress reports in a format satisfactory to the IDA for review by the IDA; (iii) prepare,
under terms of reference satisfactory to the IDA, on or about March 31, 2000, a mid-term review report
which integrates the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the project and the achievements of its objective, and
review said report with the IDA by June 30, 2000; and (iv) prepare an implementation completion report
within six months after the closing date of the project.
Accounts andAudits: The Borrower will: (i) provide adequate counterpart funding in a timely manner for
the smooth implementation of the project; (ii) maintain a financial management system acceptable to the
IDA and have the financial records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited; and (iii)
submit a certified audit report to the IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
El 1. b) Not applicable.
Ol 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Ol 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
15 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The preparation of the engineering design and bidding documents for sub-projects (valued at US$ 2.0
million) is ongoing and is expected to be completed by January 31, 1999. The first construction contracts
are expected to start in March - April 1999.
Some Sections of the Project Implementation Plan have already been reviewed by the Project Team. The
full Project Implementation Plan is expected to be submitted to the IDA for review around January 10,
1999.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Ol 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
-18 -



all other applicable Bank policies.
A fnancial management system, satisfying the minimum financial management requirements in line with
OP 10.02, is in place for the IRP. The PIU, assisted by a certified financial management specialist, will
make the necessary adjustmnents to the system in early February 1999, in order to generate the necessary
project management information for this proposed project as well. The specialist will certify the system
and prepare a time-bound action plan to prepare the project for LACI-style disbursements.
The contract between the DWR and the independent audit firm that has been appointed for the annual
auditing of the project accounts of the IRP, will have been amended before Credit Effectiveness to allow the
annual audit of the Flood Emergency Project as well.
Jo, toutjesdijk                    Gep R.&oldberg    iJyosliKodera
Tbard Leader                      ector ManagerIDirectb/           Country Manager/Director
- 19 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
.Key! Prfomnance
f; --H2ie ! f Ob_ - octivee   IiX -jj: ndicators      Monitoring&Evaluation    CriticalAssumptlons
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. To support sustained    1.1. Contributionto the GDP  1.1.1. Statistical Reports;    Consistent with Bank Mission
growth;                    from the project areas;     1. 1.2. Bank Reports;
2. Project is not listed in the
CAS, as it responds to an
emergency that occurred after
the last CAS discussion;
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To improve and secure the 1. 1. River protection works   1. 1. 1. Annual reports of  Government is committed to
sustainability of infrastructure returned to operational  oblast Administration, and    provide adequate protection to
facilities, which, if      conditions;                Ministry of Emergency and   population and public and
unattended, could lead to loss  1.2. Irrigation infrastructure   Civil Defense;   private economic facilities;
of human life and economic  returned to fully operational   1.1.2. Implementation
losses;                    conditions and delivery of    Completion Report;
irrigation water to 39,000 ha
maintained;                1.2.1. DWR reports on water
diversion and delivery to
schemes;
1.2.2. Implepnentation
Completion Report;
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
I. To rehabilitate or      1. 1. Repair or reconstruction  1. 1. PIU quarterly progress   Adequate resource allocation
reconstruct damaged flood    of 8.8 km of river       reports, including mid-term   for the maintenance of
protection infrastructure along embankments, including 23   review report;       infrastructure facilities;
selected rivers and selected   spurs, along 5 rivers;  1.2. IDA Supervision Mission
irrigation infrastructure;  1.2. Repair or reconstruction  Reports;
of intake works, head
regulators, and conveyance
canal protection in 16
schemes;
2. National government staff 2.1. Successful introduction   2.1. Sub-project feasibility
and consultants have       of different types of adaptive  and design reports;
improved knowledge and     structures;                2.2. PIU quarterly progress
experience in designing                               reports, including mid-term
applicable solutions for river                        review report;
protection and irrigation                             2.3. IDA Supervision Mission
infrastructure facilities;                            Reports;
-20 -



ProJect Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Rehabilitation or                                  1. Progress Reports;       No cost ovenrun during project
Reconstruction of River                               Procurement Reports;       implementation;
Protection and Irrigation                             Disbursement Reports; Audit
Infrastructure:                                       Reports;                    Adequate counterpart budget
1.1. River Embankments;    US$ 8.97 million                                       available for project
1.2. Spurs;                US$ 1.66 million                                      implementation;
1.3. Irrigation Infrastructure
inside River Bed;          US$ 2.33 million                                       Satisfactory capability of local
1.4. Irrigation Infrastructure                                                    contractors to implement
outside River Bed;         US$ 0.23 million                                       sub-projects;
1.5. River Gauges and Flood
Warning System;            US$ 0.24 million                                       Sufficient professional staff
available at all levels to
implement project;
2. Project Management /    US$ 0.68 million            2. Progress Reports;
Implementation Support                                Procurement Reports;
Disbursement Reports; Audit
Reports;
-21 -



Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Background
T7e Floods: Precipitation during May and June 1998 exceeded average monthly amounts in Jalal-Abad and
Osh oblasts by a factor of two or more. On May 12 and 13 alone, 75 mm or about the average monthly
precipitation for May was measured in the town of Jalal-Abad. Similar precipitation was observed to the
east and to the west over a stretch of about 400 km. Further precipitation during the following days,
together with melting snow, generated widespread flash floods throughout the region, unknown to its
inhabitants. In some basins, 100-year events were reached and rivers left their beds. The high slope of the
river beds (up to 1%) and its bed load (with stones and boulders up to 30 cm diameter) made the river flows
extremely erosive and destructive for river banks, irrigation headworks and canals. The bed load of the
rivers moved with velocities of up to 8 m/s, abrasing or disintegrating concrete structures or undercutting
fertile land, irrigation intake structures and canals. Villages were inundated or threatened, and irrigation
canals were destroyed or filled with debris over long stretches.
The high and prolonged precipitation also generated hundreds of land- and mud slides, which - besides
other calamities - created temporary reservoirs when reaching river beds. The water of the reservoirs
eventually broke through their bunds, creating new flood peaks in the rivers.
Rivers with large catchments in the elevated hinterlands kept experiencing flood conditions over 20 days
and longer due to massive snow melt in June-July. The prolonged bombardment of structures with the bed
load was detrimental to irrigation headworks, which either were washed away or were endangered in their
stability due to destruction of tailraces and erosion of underlying material.
Infrastructure Design Criteria: Flood design levels are based on hydrologic records, beginning in 1927 for
some of the major rivers in the project area. River protection is designed for 200-year flood events in
populated areas and 100-year flood events for agricultural lands. River banks of deeply incised rivers are
generally not protected. Where levees are constructed, freeboard features an additional 0.80 m, thus
allowing protection for higher than designed flood levels. Irrigation intake structures across rivers are
designed for passage of 100-year flood events. They generally feature electrically operated gates. All gates
can also be lifted by hand, if necessary. The design return periods seem to provide adequate protection
levels.
As the river beds can be rather wide, rivers normally meander within their beds, even during floods. To
deflect the rivers from embankments, spurs have been constructed where necessary. The standard spur is
about 100 m long and is leading downstream into the river bed at an angle of about 300.
Construction Material: River embankments, levees, deflection spurs and irrigation intake spurs
constructed into the river bed are generally constructed from river bed material and reinforced with rip-rap
of broken rock, with diameter of 1 m and larger, where necessary.
Gabions have been used for reinforcement of ernbankments since the 1980's on a trial basis. They are
constructed from fence-type wire mesh or by hand from steel rods that are tied and welded together. Rod
diameters vary between 4 and 6 mm. Abrasion is the main cause of their eventual failure, not rusting.
Some of the gabions resisted the 1998 floods in good order.
-22 -



Irrigation headworks are solid reinforced concrete structures. The irrigation headworks across river beds
are protected in their tailrace against abrasion and erosion with concrete, sometimes covered by granite
rocks or cast iron plates. Irrigation conveyance canals are generally lined with reinforced concrete.
Debris traps are made from gravel-fill dams, with their spillways emptying into irrigation canals. Drainage
over-or under passes are made from reinforced concrete bridges or concrete culverts.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$13.5 million
Rehabilitation / Reconstruction of River Protection and Irrigation Infrastructure
River Protection
a River Embankments (US$ 7.35 million, base cost; US$ 9.0, including contingencies): A total of nine
km of river embankments in five rivers were damaged to the point that even if the spring floods that will
occur during the next years are regular, they could break through the embankments and threaten lives,
settlements, public and private property, infrastructure and agricultural land (Table 1). In some cases the
rivers may even leave their present beds permanently and create new river alignments with unpredictable
outcome (e.g. Kara Darya). The project would fnance repair and rehabilitation of these eroded and
damaged river embankments in the five rivers, together with rehabilitation or reconstruction of 23
protective spurs. In detail it would finance the repair of up to 3.5 kn of embankment of the Kara Darya
river in the Jalal-Abad Oblast, including 6 spurs, and 5.3 km of embankments of four rivers (Kara-Kuldja,
Tar, Sokh and Yassy) in the Osh Oblast, including 17 spurs (for details on spurs see below under b.).
Table 1. Charctenistics of Fve Riven
Name      Catchment    Oblast         200-year      Observed Peak        Endangered
Probable Flood    Flood in 1998       Property
km2                       mnls             mIns
Kara Darya     12,000     Jalal-Abad      1,200             700         villages, agricultural
1,200    700         ~~~~land, including
vineyards
Kara-Kuldja     1,210        Osh            173           150 (May)     villages
Tar             2,475        Osh            548             n.av.       villages, main road,
pumping station
Sokh            2,480        Osh            320           220 (July)    3 villages, main road
Yassy           2,900        Osh            460           260 (May)     village
a/ 10,000 years return period
b/ Controlled by Anjyian Dan
Up to now, the protection of embankments is generally done with rip-rap of up to I m diameter. Rocks are
-23-



generally dumped, rather than placed on the embankments. As a result, many rocks were washed out
during the floods, particularly at outer bends in the rivers or where the rivers meandered within their bed
and ran against the embankments. Such exposed positions along embankments and levees would be
repaired under the project. If rocks would be used, there would be emphasis during construction on special
placement of the rocks, the filling of large voids between the rocks and the correct foundation layer between
the embankment and the rocks. As an alternative, the use of gabions as an integral part of the design is
currently being studied. A gabion mat would be laid out as a foundation reaching about 3 m into the river
from the foot of the embankment. The thickness of the mat would be about 50 to 60 cm. Gabions would
be erected on top of the mat either in form of steps (usually one meter per step) or as sloped mattresses. At
least two layers of rocks, left behind from the destroyed structures, would be placed at the foot of the
embankment and other exposed sections to avoid abrasion of the gabion wire. Where needed, the rocks
could be linked together, possibly by steel wires, and connected to the gabions to keep them in place.
Vegetative material would be integrated with the gabions as a biological means to reduce flow velocities
near the gabions and thus abrasive action by the river bed load, and reinforce the entire structure.
b. Deflector Spurs (US$ 1.35 million, base cost; US$ 1.66, including contingencies): The project would
finance the rehabilitation or reconstruction of 23 deflector spurs. These structures aim to deflect the rivers'
flow away from embankmnents at exposed positions such as river bends. According to current design in the
Kyrgyz Republic, they are generally 100 m long earthen embankments that protrude into the river under an
angle of about 300, pointing downstream. They are constructed like levees from river bed material and are
protected by rip-rap, particularly on the upstream side and at their tip. The crest level of the spurs is above
flood level, which means that the river cross-section is reduced considerably at the location of the spurs.
Alternative designs would be considered, but it is likely that the current construction would be replaced by
a gabion construction, including a gabion foundation mattress. To avoid the formation of destructive
eddies around the tip of the spurs, they would be constructed to zero-out at the tip, starting at a height of up
to 3 m at the embankment. The tip would thus be submerged during a flood. Where needed, the gabion
wire would be protected against abrasion and flows in a similar manner as described above. Table 2 shows
the required works on each river for embankments and spurs.
Table 2. Required Repair or Reconstruction of River Protection
Name of River       Embaninent        Deflector Spurs    Indicative Cost Estimate
(kn)             (No.)              (US$M; base cost)
Kara Darya                 3.5                6                      3.70
Kara-Kuldja                1.0                8                      0.63
Tar                        1.3                5                      1.55
Sokh                       1.0                                       0.77
Yassy                      2.0                4                      2.05
Total                      8.8               23                      8.70
-24 -



Irrigation Infrastructure
The project would finance the rehabilitation and reconstruction of selected irrigation infrastructure inside
and outside of river beds at 16 different schemes, with a total command area of 39,000 ha. Within the river
beds the repair works would include intake spurs, irrigation conveyance canals and their embankments,
spurs to protect such embankments, spillways and gated headworks. Outside the river beds the repair
works would include drain overpass reconstruction, spillway reconstruction from debris dams and repair of
concrete lining. Table 3 shows the area irrigated of each scheme and the type of damage needing repair or
reconstruction.
Table 3. Damage in Irrigation Schemes needing Repair or Reconstruction
Name of Scheme/River                       Area irrigated        Type of Damage
(ha)
(i) Jalal-Abad Oblast
1. Zernovoi/Kugart                                5,388          Intake spur, 3 protective spurs;
1,000 m of conveyance canal
2. Oktiabrski/Kugart                              2,061          Intake spur; 700 m of canal
3. Stari-Ukari Alknan/Kara Ungur Sai               105           Intake spur; 1,000 m of canal
4. Katta-Tegermen/Kara Ungur Sai                   1,599         Intake spur; protective spur; 1,000 m
of canal
5. Masy/Kara Ungur Sai                            3,418          Drain crossing over canal
6. Shaidan-Branch/Kara Ungur                       1,055         Aqueduct levee
7. Shaidan-R.B. Branch/Kara Ungur                 5,786          Drain inlet into irrigation canal
Sub-total                                  19,412
(i) Osh Oblast
1. Sary-Kamysh/Kara-Kuldja                         900           Intake spur; protective spurs over
1,000 m embankment
2. Ylai-Talaa/Kara-Kuldja                          770           Levee for pump station; inverted
siphon
3. Uzgen/Kara-Kuldja                              2,177          Intake spur; 500 m of canal
4. Atamkul/Yassy                                  2,400          Intake spur; head regulator; spur;
140 m of canal
5. Kyrgyz-Ata/Kyrgyz-Ata                          5,029          Concrete lining below intake
structure
6. Tuya-Muyun/Kyrgyz-Ata                          6,881          Drain inlet into irrigation canal
-25 -



7. Naiman Golovnoi/Aravan Sai                   408           Intake spur; headworks
8. Mochan/Isfara                                472          Intake spur
9. Savai/Gulcha                                 550          Intake spur, head regulator; 300 m of
canal; 530 m of canal destroyed by
land slide
Sub-total                                   19,587
Total                                       38,999
c. Works inside River Beds (US$ 1. 93 million, base cost; US$ 2.33 million, including contingencies):
The project would finance ten intake spurs, nine protective spurs to ensure the safety of 3 conveyance
canals, rehabilitation of 7 conveyance canal embankments totaling 5,060 m, reconstruction of 2 conveyance
canals totaling 1,000 m, a protective levee for an aqueduct over 200 m length, rehabilitation of 3 headgate
regulators, reconstruction of one inverted siphon and reconstruction of one canal destroyed by a land slide
(530 m). All works regarding intake spurs, protective spurs and protection of conveyance canals would
possibly integrate gabion designs into their structures. Care would be taken to ensure stability of the intake
spur heads, where rocks would protect the underlying gabion construction. The protective spurs and the
rehabilitation or reconstruction of the embankments of conveyance canals would be designed in a similar
way as proposed for river embankments mentioned above. The works are summarized in Table 4 below.
Table 4. Irrigation Infrastructure - Inside River Bed
Name of   _Typ_ Te of work                                              Indicative Cost
Scheme      Intake Spurs  Protective Spur  Conveyance       Other         Estimate
(m)                        Canal (m)                   (USS'000, base
________________                             _   =_ __________ _  cost)
(i) Jalal-Abad
Oblast                                                                   _
1. Zernovoi         100         3 x 100 m        1,000                          351
2. Oktiabrski       100         3xlOOm            700                           317
3. Stari-Ukari      100                           1,000                          169
4. Katta-           100                           1,000                          135
Tegermen   _ _
5. Shaidan-                  -                     -        Protective levee     27
Branch                                                   of aqueduct over
200 m
Sub-Total           400           600 m          3,700                          999
(ii) Osh Oblast
1. Sary-            100         3 x 100 m        1,000                          291
Kamysh
2. Ylai-Talaa        -              -              60       inverted siphon      34
3. Uzgen            100                           500ka                         315
4. Atambkul          80                          500        headgate             115
regulator
-26 -



5. Naiman           100                                   head gate           75
Golovnoi                                               regulator
6. Mochan           100                                  _                    34
7. Savai            50                          300       head regulator,     70
530 m of new
canal around
landslide
Sub-Total          530           300 m          2,360                         934
Total              930           900 m          6,060                        1,933
reconstruction of conveyance canal, including protection works.
d. Works outside River Beds (US$ 0.19 million, base cost; US$ 0.23 million, including contingencies):
Urgent repair or reconstruction works are required in four schemes outside river beds. In two cases,
spillways from debris collection dams leading into canals would be repaired, one drain overpass would be
reconstructed and the destroyed concrete lining below the headworks of the Kyrgyz-Ata canal would be
replaced to ensure its stability. Table 5 summarizes the works.
Table 5. Irrigation Infrastructure - Outside River-beds
Indicative Cost
Name of Scheme                       Proposed Works                       Estimate
(US$, base cost)
(i) Jalal-Abad Oblast
1. Masy                     Drain overpass reconstruction                         63
2. Shaidan Right Bank       Spillway reconstruction of debris collection dam      75
Sub-total                                                                      138
(ii) Osh Oblast
1. Kyrgyz-Ata               Concrete lining in conveyance canal below             40
headworks
2. Tuya-Muyun               Spillway reconstruction of debris collection dam      10
Sub-total                                                                        50
Total                                                                           188
e. River Gauging Stations and Flood Warning Systems (US$ 0.20 million, base cost; US$ 0.24 million,
including contingencies): A large number of river gauging stations are not operational. The most critical
ones would be repaired or reconstructed in order to allow flow measurements and the continuation of flow
recording that started in 1927. Continued flow records are important to predict probable flood events in
future (base cost US$ 150,000).
-27-



The project would establish a flood warning system in the Kugart river basin, which could reduce the loss
of life during future floods. Funds would be provided to study the options of such systems and install at
least one such system as recommended by the study (installation is estimated at US$ 50,000, base cost).
Project Component 2 - US$0.7 million
Project Management and Implementation Support
a Implementation Support (US$ 155, 000, base cost; US$ 181, 000, including contingencies): The PIJ
that has been established for the IRP would be reinforced through the project for its daily management. A
civil engineer and construction engineer, to be hired on competitive basis, would be added to the PIU staff
for the duration of the proposed project (US$ 19,000). Resident Engineers would be contracted by the
PIU, on competitive basis and through advertisements in the local newspapers, for contract management
and construction supervision of the different sub-projects (US$ 40,000). In addition the project would
finance a limited amount of equipment, including office and communication equipment and vehicles (US$
56,000). The additional operational expenses of the PIU, to be fully financed by Government, are
estimated at US$ 40,000.
b. Technical Assistance (US$ 400, 000, base cost; US$ 460, 000, including contingencies): Funds would
be provided to assist the PIU with the implementation of the project. Consulting firms would be contracted
for the preparation of feasibility studies, detailed designs and bidding documents of sub-projects, as well as
for overall construction supervision (base cost US$ 100,000).
Experienced individual engineering consultants would be contracted to intermittently assist the PIU with
determination of design options, advice on modeling needs, quality control of design work, compliance with
international design and construction standards, and supervision of construction during critical stages. In
particular, expertise would be provided to the PIU in designing modeling options for river protection works,
particularly related to proposed gabion structures and reducing investment and maintenance cost; and in
designing applicable river protection works and in assisting in the supervision of their construction in the
field. In total 10 person-month would be financed (base cost US$ 150,000). Consultants would be
contracted to carry out the Flood Warning System study (base cost US$ 50,000).
Modeling of flood protection works would be financed. In particular, as gabion structures would be new in
the country, modeling test would be conducted in a hydraulic laboratory to optimize their design, including
the use of submergible gabions during flood events (base cost US$ 85,000).
An audit firm for the annual audit of project accounts would be financed from the Credit finds (base cost
US$ 15,000).
c. Study Tour (US$ 30, 000, base cost; US$ 34, 000, including contingencies): The project would support
two study tours for the staff of DWR, MECD and oblast administrations to countries where different
methods of flood protection, including gabions, are practiced (base cost US$ 30,000).
- 28 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    F gUSoreill'n-`  on
A. Rehabilitation/reconstruction of River Protection and     4.4           6.6         11.0
Irrigation Infrastructure
A. 1. River Embankmrents
A.2. Spurs
A.3. Irrigation Infrastructure, inside River beds
A.4. Irrigation Infrastructure, outside River beds
A.5. River Gauges and Flood Warning System
B. Project Management / Implementation Support               0.1           0.5           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                                          4             7.1          11.6
Physical Contingencies                                      0.7           1.0           1.7
Price Contingencies                                         0.4           0.4          0.8
Total Project Costs                5.6           8.5          14.1
Total Financing Required                 5.6           8.5         14.1
- 29 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Summary of Benefit and Costs:
An economic analysis was carried out for three of the irrigation sub-projects, which represent the full range
of construction cost per ha. Zernovoi is a large scheme of 5,400 ha, Sary-Kamysh is an average sized
scheme of almost 1,000 ha, while Stari-Ukari is a small scheme of only 105 ha. However, each of the
schemes has mrajor problems with flood-damaged intake spurs and conveyance canals. The rehabilitation
costs per ha are estimated at US$ 80, 390 and 1,900 for Zernovoi, Sary-Kamysh and Stari-Ukari
respectively. The sub-project impacts were computed based on the estimated rehabilitation costs and
avoidance of yield decreases in the "with-project" situation, because of adequate and timely water supply to
the schemes. The switching value for construction costs was calculated for the least viable sub-project. It
could be concluded that even the most expensive sub-project would be economically viable, thus the project
would be robust.
The results of the economic analysis for the three sub-projects are as follows:
Economic                Zernovoi          Sary-Kamysh         Stari-Ukari
Indicators
EIRR (%)                  104                 36                  21
NPV (USS)               1,930,000           286,000             53,000
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions are as follows:
(i)    "Without-project" yields would remain at levels of 20 percent below the ones that were achieved
before the floods, when the heqdworks were providing adequate and timely water supply, as they
were in permanent operational condition according to design standards;
(ii)    "With-project" yields would return to levels that were achieved before the floods;
(iii)   In the "without-project" situation annual repair works to the intake arrangements would be needed
to repair annual flood damages. The annual costs for Zernovoi, Sary-Kamysh and Stari-Ukari
would be US$ 25,000, 17,500 and 10,000 respectively;
(iv)    A typical cropping pattern for Osh and Jalal-Abad oblasts has been used, including wheat, maize,
cotton and lucerne as main crops; and
(v)    Economic prices are kept constant at the year 2005 projections.
-30-



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The next table indicates values at which an increase in construction costs would reduce the Net Present
Value to zero for the most sensitive sub-project, Stari-Ukari. The results show that the costs could increase
by almost 30 percent, over and above the cost estimates that have been used for the economic analysis,
which already include a 15 percent physical contingency. It is therefore unlikely that the actual
construction costs could make any of the schemes economically non-viable.
Switching Value -        Zernovoi          Sary-Kamysh          Stari-Ukari
30 percent
Construction Cost
Increase
EIRR (%)                    79                  26                   15
NPV (US$)                1,810,000           200,000                 0
The assumption of a 20 percent yield decrease in the current situation with damaged intake arrangements,
which would continue in the "without-project" situation, was determined in conjunction with DWR oblast
authorities. In order to test the sensitivity of this assumption, the analysis was also carried out when
assuming only a 10 percent yield reduction in the "without-project" case. With this changed assumption,
and all others constant, the EIRR would be 50, 21 and 18 percent for Zernovoi, Sary-Kamysh and
Stari-Ukari respectively.
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Years Ending
December 31
| Year 1| Year 2         Year3  | Year4  | Years  | Year6  | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            4.9         8.0        1.2        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total ProjectCosts             4.9        8.0        1.2         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing                4.9        8.0        1.2         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    3.5        5.7         0.8        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                  1.4        2.3        0.4        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                      0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       3.5        5.7        0.8         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Year          Year2     Year3     Year4        Year        Year6     Year 7
Total Finain g Required
Project Costs
investment Costs           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total ProjevtCosts            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Financing               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Financing
IBRD/iIDA                  0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              o.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Others                     o.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Procurement
Procurement of works and goods would be in accordance with the "Guidelines - Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997). The
Borrower would use the Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and works, including the Bank's
regional sample NCB documents. Recruitment of consultants would be in accordance with the "Guidelines
- Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised September
1997). For the consulting assignments the Borrower would use the relevant Bank's standard forms of
contract. Any goods, works and services not financed by the IDA would be procured in accordance with
the National Public Procurement Legislation.
Responsibility for all procurement would rest with the PIU, which is already in place for the
implementation of the ongoing Irrigation Rehabilitation Project. The staff of the PIU includes a full time
procurement specialist. Information regarding procurement administration would be collected and recorded
and quarterly reports would be sent to the IDA. These reports would also indicate: (i) revised cost
estimates for individual contracts and the total project; (ii) revised timing of procurement actions and
completion time; (iii) an updated procurement plan; and (iv) compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement.
The General Procurement Notice will be published in the UN Development Business of January 1999. As
part of the ongoing training of staff of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, a Procurement Workshop
would be conducted in February 1999 in order to strengthen the Borrower's capacity in procurement
know-how. This Procurement Workshop would also be beneficial to the proposed Flood Emergency
Project, as the procurement staff of the IRP would have responsibility for the procurement of the proposed
Project as well. In addition to this proposed formal workshop, a Bank Procurement Specialist has already
provided informal training to the staff of the PIU of the IRP, in particular the procurement expert, during
two missions in 1998.
A formal procurement assessment was not required, as the appraisal was carried out in September -
October 1998. Therefore no overall procurement risk level is provided.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement arrangements are presented in Table A. Details are as follows:
Works: Contracts for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of infrastructure valued above US$ 2.0 million
per contract would be procured through ICB. Contracts valued between US$ 250,000 and US$ 2.0 million
would be procured through NCB, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$ 12.2 million. The
threshold is justified by the following two reasons: (i) during the preparation of the Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project an assessment of national contractors was carried out. It was ascertained that there would be a
sufficient number of contractors with adequate capacity (equipment, machinery and operators) to carry out
the civil works contracts envisaged under that project. The construction works under the proposed Flood
Emergency Project would be relatively simple and straightforward, comprising mainly earthworks and
concrete works, and sufficient interest and capacity is envisaged to provide a competitive environment; and
(ii) the project should be implemented as quickly as possible as it responds to emergency works. A review
- 33 -



would be carried out after the issuing of the first three contracts valued each at over US$ 1.0 million, but
less than US$ 2.0 million, to establish that there were at least five valid bids for every contract. If this is
not achieved, the procurement threshold for NCB would be reduced, by agreement between the parties, to
US$ 1.0 million and contracts above this threshold would then be procured through ICB.
Contracts costing less than US$ 250,000 would be procured following the Minor Civil Works procedures.
Works would be procured under lump sum and fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified national contractors in response to a written invitation, using the Bank's
sample bidding document. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including the
required completion period, basic specifications and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award of
contract shall be made, through a basic form of agreement acceptable to the IDA, to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required works, and who has the experience and resources to
successfully complete the contract. The total aggregate value of Minor Civil Works contracts is not to
exceed US$ 1.3 million.
Goods: National Shopping would be used for small items, estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 64,000, on the basis of at least three quotations from qualified
suppliers. ICB (with a contract threshold of US$ 200,000) and International Shopping procedures are not
envisaged.
Services: Consultants financed under the project would be selected in accordance with the Bank
consultants guidelines. Consultant contracts would be as follows: (i) additional PIU staff (civil engineer
and construction engineer) to be selected as individual consultants, initially for one year, with the
possibility of extension upon satisfactory performance; consultants to assist the PIU with determination of
design options, advise on modeling needs, quality control of design work, compliance with international
design and construction standards, supervision of construction during critical stages, and to carry out the
flood warning systemn study, would be selected as individual consultants (15 contracts for US$ 299,000
equivalent in aggregate); (ii) consulting firms for the preparation of feasibility studies, detailed designs and
bidding documents of sub-projects and construction supervision and hydraulic laboratories for modeling,
would be selected according to Consultants Qualifications (four contracts for US$ 213,000 equivalent in
aggregate); and (iii) the contract with the audit firm for the IRP would be amended, to allow the annual
auditing of the project accounts (one contract under sole source selection for US$ 18,000).
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The first Works contracts following NCB and Minor Works, regardless of their value, and all ICB
contracts would be subject to prior IDA review.
With respect to Services, prior IDA review would be required for all terms of reference, irrespective of the
contract value. Consulting firm contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 75,000 would be subject to
IDA's prior review (review would include the Request for Proposals, the Terms of Reference, short-list,
results of evaluation, and draft contracts). For contracts with individual consultants costing US$ 40,000 or
more the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment would be furnished to the
IDA for its review and approval. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the IDA on a
random basis.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
- 34 -



The proposed IDA Credit of US$ 10 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of two years, and
the expected closing date of the Credit would be September 30, 2001. There is little experience yet to form
a disbursement profile for the Kyrgyz Republic, but it is thought that project disbursements could be fairly
accurately estimated and that the country's ability to implement the project over a two year period is
reasonable, especially given that: (i) a PIU has been established and is gaining experience with the
implementation of the IRP; (ii) a consulting firm is already assisting government with the preparation of the
designs and bidding documents for PY1 works, including detailed cost estimates, and consulting services
would be used throughout project implementation; and (iii) most of the Credit would be disbursed on civil
works, which are straightforward and fairly easy to implement.
A condition for disbursement of expenditures made in respect of Works (Category 1) would be that the
IDA has approved the feasibility report of concerned sub-project.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Based on the results of the review of the financial management system, a time-bound action plan would be
prepared that would indicate the necessary steps to be taken to prepare for LACI-style disbursements.
These disbursements would be based on quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) that would
integrate project accounting, procurement, disbursement, and audit. The PMR would include a project
financial statement that would show a summary of sources and uses of funds, an updated six-month cash
forecast, a Special Account reconciliation statement and a cash withdrawal statement. The PMR would
also include a project progress report, explaining actual physical and financial progress versus forecasts
and a procurement management report, showing procurement status and contract commitments. Under
LACI, the PIU would move away from voucher-by-coucher disbursement to quarterly disbursements to the
Special Account. However, until such time that LACI disbursements would be approved, the following
disbursements would be made against certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (a) goods under
contracts costing less than US$ 200,000 each; (b) works under contracts costing less than US$ 1,000,000
each; (c) training; and (d) services under contracts less than US$ 75,000 each for consulting firms, and less
than US$ 40,000 each for individual consultants, under such terms and conditions as the IDA shall specify.
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the Borrower and made available to the IDA
during supervision.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish in a commercial
bank a Special Account (SA) to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to the IDA.
The IDA would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$ 2.0 million. Initially the allocation
would be limited to US$ 1.0 million, until disbursements have reached SDR 3.0 million, at which time the
full authorized allocation could be claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the SA would be
submitted monthly or when 20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The
replenishment application would be supported by the necessary documentation, the SA bank staternent, and
a reconciliation of this bank statement. Under LACI, the Special Account would be the preferred vehicle
for all disbursements. Replenishment would be quarterly and the amount would be estimated in advance
and recorded in the PMR. The IDA would make direct payments only in exceptional circumstances. The
SA would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA.
- 35 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                           12.2            1.3            0.0           13.5
.  ()   (8.5)  (0.9)         (0.0)          (9.4)
2. Goods                                            0.0            0.1            0.0            0.1
()       ~~~(0.0)        (0.1      _(0.)               (0. 1)
3. Services                                        0.0             0.5           0.0             0.5
()      ~~~(0.0)         (0.5)          (0.0)          (0.5)
4. Miscellaneous                                    0.0            0.0            0.1            0.1
()   (0.0)    (0.0)          (0.0)          (0.0)
Total                             0.0           12.2            1.9            0.1           14.2
(0.0)          (8.5)          (1.5)          (0.0)         (10.0)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2Includes: (i) Minor Works (aggregate amount US$ 1.3 million); (ii) National Shopping for Goods (US$
64,000); (iii) Individual Consultants (US$ 299,000 equivalent in aggregate); (iv) Consulting firms (US$
213,000 equivalent in aggregate); and (v) Single Source Selection of audit firm (US$ 18,000).
- 36 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                        Conii
Threshold          Procurement          PrHW.v1       :
Expenditure Category   (US$ thousands)          Method            (USS milmion.)
1. Works                    >2,000                ICB
>250                 NCB                  0.92
<250                 SW                   0.20
2. Goods                    >200                  ICB
>50                  Is
<50                  NS
3. Services                  <100                 CQ                  0.08
N/A             Ind. Consultant          0.10
N/A                  SSS                 0.02
4. Miscellaneous                                              I                   I
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$ 1.32 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 37 -



Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
4*f tureatgo0   -SAmount ir. US$mlllion   Financing percetag
Works                                  8.4                            70 %
Goods                                  0.1               100 % of foreign expenditures; 100
% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs); and 80 % for other items
procurecl locally
Services and Training                  0.5                           100 %
Unallocated                            1.0
Total Project Costs                   10.0              .        .           - .   .
Total                                 10.0
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                      Actual-
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      07/10/98                    07/10/98
Appraisal mission departure              09/06/98                    09/06/98
Negotiations                             01/11/99                    12/16/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness            03/30/99
Prepared by:
Department of Water Resources and the Ministry of Emergency and Civil Defense, with assistance of the
Kyrgyz Design Institute.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Speclality
Joop Stoutjesdijk                            Task Team Leader / Engineering
Volker Branscheid                            Engineering
Evgeny Polyakov                              Financial
Janybek Omorov                               Operations Officer
Maya Begalieva                               External Affairs
Michael Rathnam                              Resident Management
Maurizio Ragazzi                             Legal Counsel
Naushad Khan                                 Procurement
Hannah Koilpillai                            Disbursement
Rita Klees                                   Environment
Joseph Goldberg                              Sector Leader / Quality Control
John Hayward                                 Quality Review
Piotr Wilczynski                             Peer Review
Stan Peabody                                 Social Science
Tom Ward                                     Economics
Asyl Undeland                                Operations Officer
Patience Onon                                General Task Team Support
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoire Assessment / Identification Mission (July 1998);
Technical Note (July 1998);
Back-to-Office Report (July 1998);
Aide Memoire Appraisal Mission (September 1998);
Back-to-Office Report (October 1998);
C. Other
Project Information Document
Environmental Data Sheet
Minutes of Advisory Committee Meeting
*Including electronic files
-40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project
As of 28-Dec-98
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual
disbursements a/
Project ID      FY              Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD      IDA    Cancellations   Undisbursed         Orig    Frs Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
KG-PE-38569    1999  GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC          SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.            0.00    36.50          0.00              36.50        0.00         0.00
KG-PE-40721    1998  GOVT. OF KYRGY2 REPUBLIC          AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV           0.00    14.98          0.00              15.39          .84        0.00
KG-PE-46042    1998  GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ REPUB    IRRIGATION REHAB.                   0.00    35.00         0.00               34.76        -.10         0.00
KG-PE-8520      1997  KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                  RURAL FINANCE                  0.00     16.00        0.00                7.04       -3.51         0.00
KG-PE-45631    1996  THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC               FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.           0.00      3.40        0.00                1.71        1.24         0.00
KG-PE-8513      1996  GOVT OF KYRGYZ                   SHEEP   H WOOL IMPROV.         0.00    11.60         0.00                7.33         1.29        0.00
KG-PE-8519      1996  GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC         POWER & DIST. HEAT             0.00    35.00         0.00               32.60        9.07        15.16
KG-PE-8523      1996  GOV'T OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC         HEALTH                         0.00    18.50         0.00                6.67       -3.05         0.00
KG-PE-a515      1995  GOVT. OF KYRGHYZSTAN             SOCIAL SAFETY NET              0.00    17.00          2.00               1.65        3.67           .66
KG-PE-8524      1995  GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN              PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.            0.00    15.00          0.00              13.11       11.57         0.00
KG-PE-8518      1994  GOV. OF KYRGYZ REP.              TELECOMMUNICATIONS             0.00    18.00         0.00                2.94       -1.43         0.00
Total                                                                                 0.00   220.99         2.00              159.70       19.59        15.82
Active Pro3ects          Closed Projects             Total
Total Disbursed  (IBRD and IDA):                        56.99                255.48                 312.47
of which has been repaid:                         0.00                  0.00                   0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        218.98                254.00                 472.98
Amount sold                         :0.00                                       0.00                  0.00
Of which repaid                 :                    0.00                   0.00                   0.00
Total Undisbursed                   :                  159.70                   0.00                159.70
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-
Nov-98.
Kyrgyz Republic
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Comnmitted and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Nov-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                                        Disbursed
IFC                                              IFC
FY  Approval                  Companv                Loan       Equity       Ouasi    Partic          Loan        Equity       Ouasi    Partic
1995                        Kumtor Gold                   30.00         0.00       10.00         0.00      30.00         0.00       10.00         0.00
1996                         Demirbank Kyrgyz               0.00          .45       0.00         0.00        0.00          .45        0.00        0.00
Total Portfolio:                          30.00          .45       10.00        0.00       30.00           .45      10.00         0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Eauitv    Oussi    Partic
1997                        DEMIR                           0.00          .15       0.00         0.00
KYRGYZINCR
1996                        DEMIRBANK                       2.00        0.00        0.00         2.00
KYRGYZ
Total Pending Commitment:                  2.00          .15        0.00        2.00
-41 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Flood Emergency Project                                              11/5/98
Eurooe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Kvravz   Central      Low-
Reoublic      Asia  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                        4.6      476      2 048                 Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$)                    370      2.320      350
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                       1.7     1.106      722
Averaue annual arowth. 1991-97
PoDulation (%)                                         0.7       0.2       2.1
Labor force(%l                                         1.2       0.5       2.3     GNP                              Gross
> per       \         /        primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1991-971                              capita                       enrollment
Povertv /% of Dooulation below national Dovertv line)  53
Urban Dooulation (% of total ooDulation)               39        67        28
Life exoectancv at birth (vears)                       67        69        59
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)               32        25        78
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              .                                    Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of Dooulation)                 75                  71
Illiteracv (% of Dooulation aoe 15+)                    .         ..       47
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschool-aoe ooulation)   111        92        91               -   Kyrgyz Republic
Male                                                110                '100             ___- Low-income group
Female                                              111         ..       81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                             ..       ..       2.7       2.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                   25.2      14.4                     Trade
ExDorts of ooods and services/GDP                               30.7      41.3
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                                      -0.6       6.7
Gross national savinos/GDP                                      -8.8      -1.8
Current account balance/GDP                                    -15.4      -6.4     Domestic      _   1          I
Interest Davments/GDP                                            1.5       3.1     Savings                      Investment
Total deItlGDP                                                  39.4      61.6
Total debt service/exoorts                                      19.2      15.6
DebtUGDP                                                        59.6      78.4
Debt/exoorts                                                   190.1     187.7
Indebtedness
197646  1987-97     1996       1997   1998-02
faveraoe annual arowth)
GDP                                   ..      8.5      7.1      10.4       4.0                   Kyrgyz Republic
GNP oer caoita                       ..       8.6      6.8       8.8       3.0                  Low-income group
Exoorts of ooods and services         ..       .      15.8      81.5       9.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
f% of GOP)                                  1976    1986       1996      1997      Growth ratesofoutputandinvestment(%)
Aariculture                                     .       ..      46.3      45.2    T0
Industrv                                       .         .      17.0      20.8    250                   \     /
Manufacturina                                ..       ..      11.1      166.2     o
Services                                       .        ..      29.8      27.9    20          9B   97
Private consumotion                            ..       ..      82.1      76.2    -40
General oovemment consumotion                  ..       ..      18.5      17.1                     G01         GDP
lmDorts of ooods and services                  ..       ..      56.6      48.9
faverace annual arowthl                  1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997    [Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Acriculture                                    ..       ..      15.1       7.0   1O0
80+
Industrv                                       ..       ..       2.7       5.0    e0
Manufacturina                                     ..       ..              .     40
Services                                       ..       ..      -3.1       9.9    20
Private consumDtion                            ..       ..      153       11.4    -20 - 92   93   9                    97
General aovernment consumDtion                 ..       ..      21.2       6.5    .40
Gross domestic investment                      ..       ..      36.2      10.4    -s
ImDorts of aoods and services                  ..       ..      54.3      12.9    L              Exports       Imports
Gross national Droduct                         ..       ..       8.3      10.3
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv [in bold) comoared with its income-oroun averaoe. If data are missina. the
diamond will be incomolete.
-42 -



Kvr&vz Republic
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976      1986      1996      1997       Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             .00
Consumer prices                                                    35.0      14.7      900 
Implicit GDP deflator                                              35.3      13.3      600
400     
Government finance                                                                     200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0 
Current revenue                                                    14 7      16.6               92   93   94  9s   96   97
Current budget balance                                             -6.5       -5.5                   GDP deflator    e-cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -9p5       -9.4
TRADE
1976     1986       11996     1997      EpradIpr
(USS millions)                                1                                        ExportandImportlevels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                                                 531       633     1000 -
Electric Energy                                                    74        83          7
Gold and gold products                                              0       185     j
Manufactures                                                      298       209       600
Total imports (ci)                                ..      ..        901       781       400
Food98                                                                       7
Fuel and energy                                                   251       239       200l
Capital goods                                                     183       110     j  o
ExDort once index (1995= 100)                    ..       ..         96        89           91   92   93   94   95  96  97
Imoort orice index (1995=100)                                       101        97                CExports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..        ..        95        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS millions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (M.
Exports of goods and services                                       562       695     0o
Imports of goods and services                                       926       754      -2  91   92   93   94   95   96 97
Resource balance                                                   -364       -59
Net income                                                         -148      -143
Net current transfers                                                89        65     -lo
Current account balance                                            -423      -137     -12+
Financing items (net)                                               462       171     .16
Changes in net reserves                                             -39       -34    11e
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)                              132       200
Conversion rate (DEC. locaUUSS)                  ..       ..        8.5      13.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997     j-
(USS millions)                                 1                                       Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0        0      1 081     1,319
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0                         G12
IDA                                             0        0        199       266                       -           266
Total debt service                                                                         F 373
IBRD                                            0        0          0         0                .
IDA                                             0        0          1         2              /
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                       C t_ 170
Official grants                                                   112       112     I
Official creditors                                               268        225     1
Private creditors                                                 182         8
Foreign direct investment                                         46         60
Portfolio equity                                                    0         0     i        E: 313            D: 18S
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0         99        60
iA - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   0        0         61        66     8 - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                            0        0          0         0     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net fiows                                       0        0         61        66
Interest payments                               0        0          1         2
Net transfers                                   0        0         60        65
Development Economics                                                                                                     11/5/98
-43 -



IBRD 30007
70'                                                                                                               75                                                                                                                 so,
K A Z A K H S T A N
0       50  ~K LOMETERS 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /
o  so    loo           Iso                   2    ~~~K A Z A K H S T A N                           .',
0          25         so     0            ISO                                                                                          T
0    25       ~~~M LES                       T. Dzh-mbu                                                          t        >       oAo
L                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P-k obeAy-
-;                                                                                                                                                                                                                   {S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A Y
U           Z   B                        el K   I  S   T   A                                                           ui  f                                                                                                 R jC  R I A O  S H M S 1 e    i
I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
V ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~       ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~"
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'Isk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~FLOOD EMERGENCY PROJECT
*  PROJECT IRRIGATON' SCHE5MES    il
| r _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * ,_ > < _ > *:, * SYRDARYARIVERbASN:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRDAYARIERBA 
~*  \                                                                      I                                                                                                         so-.        < 5 u + X-  (ol Tnr R,i-r
t                                                                                  (b)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 K.r. K.1dj Ri-.,
loTDu.hunh t o /  ^~~ / ~ 4 ~ IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE T- IRRIOAION INFRASiTRUCTURE -    RAT   INRASTRUCTURER
N 5  To Dushanbe    . ~~~~~ I  -    ~~   ~  ~ ~~ ~ r                INSIDE RIVER BEDS:         OUTSIDE RIVER BEDS:                                          (E) Sk.-Dh , Ri-o ,
-.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~A. Jala1-Abad   A. Jala-Abad                                                )YyR.
70'                                                                      -                                                1Z-OZE3SSY'-.                                                                        Ed as  ia
___________ ___________ __________ ___________ ___________ ________         E    Ms,gss                                02  osEi.brsi               @114   SSAl iod.     R,                         . o        I.) S.kh  RI-a
15555.9s AN  . _. \ FuSS AN                         .\                            *aJ S.,i UkRsA              B. OSH
- -   N  Us                                                                                0~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 K.  T*-0    Ky,5y,SA.s                     RIVER BAS N BOUNDAR ES
AZER4UAN AAKSAN/                                                                                                                                  s SIsd.n 8-1,oS1 Sit,              Ml                                              RIVERS
A2ER;AbAN /     0          i *. KAZAKHSTAN <  T    AJIK  I STAN  . s  S hoidonbron                                                     *      SuyoMygn  5VERbTAJIKISTAN  B.SOS
Cuspian   VJ   \         . C&                                 / :6  S.ry-K-y,h                                                                                                                                           -        RAILROADS
0't   <                        :1i             Moos                                                                                 7 Yi6-T.i.a                                                                         OTHER ROADS
S  >.    BOOKER                                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 ATOOk  -   MAN ROADS
.   .                                    REPY   OHv  jA                                                                                    010 N o . _ .                                9 AbmLu                                   ELECTED CNES
REPU5LK   < IC^   ~  tJ                          C    N A                                                                                *1ESa,asx                                                                            NA ONAL CAFTAL
REP                                               CH NAHNSA  _  ix                                                                                                                                                             OBLAST bOUNDARIES
OF RA  AFGHN SN                                                                                                                    75. .   . .  INTERNATIONAL bOUNDAR ES
DFCFMBER 1599,



