Report No. PID6852
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Flood Emergency (+)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Emergency
Project ID                       KGPE62682
Borrower                         Government of the Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
Dushambinskaya Street 4a
Bishkek, The Kyrgyz Republic
Tel:    996-3312-426995 / 212933
Fax:    996-3312-212933
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           September 2, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         September 8, 1998
Projected Board Date             January 1999
Background
1.      Precipitation during April and May 1998 exceeded average amounts in the
southern Oblasts of Jalal-Abad and Osh by a factor of two. On 12 and 13 May
1998, 75 mm, or about the average monthly precipitation for May, was measured
in the town of Jalal-Abad. Similar precipitation was observed to the east and
to the west over a stretch of about 400 km. Further precipitation during the
following days, together with melting snow, generated widespread flash floods
throughout the region unknown to its inhabitants. In some basins 1000-year
events were exceeded and a number of rivers left their beds. The high
gradient of the rivers about 1%-) and the bed loads (with stones up to 30cm
diameter) made them extremely erosive and destructive for their banks, levees,
irrigation headworks and canals. The bed load of the rivers moved with
velocities of up to lm/s, abraising or disintegrating concrete structures or
undercutting fertile land, irrigation canals and anything else in its way.
Towns and villages were inundated or threatened, and irrigation canals were
often destroyed or filled with debris over long stretches, disrupting the flow
of water to the irrigation schemes.
2.      The high and prolonged precipitation also generated hundreds of land- and
mudslides, which, besides other calamities, created temporary reservoirs when
reaching river beds. The water of the reservoirs eventually broke through
their bunds, creating new flood peaks in the rivers and in one case claiming
hundreds of lives (Shari-Mardan river, Uzbek enclave on July 8).
3.      While the floods in many rivers retreated generally after a few days,
those areas with elevated hinterlands kept experiencing flood conditions over
20 days and longer due to massive snow melt in June-July. The prolonged
bombardment of structures with the    bed-load was detrimental to irrigation
headworks and endangered their stability due to destruction of tailraces and
consequent erosion of underlying material.



Donor Involvement
4.      Relief funds were made available immediately after the floods by
Government, UNDP, and bilateral donors, including UK, the Netherlands, Norway
and Canada. These funds took care of the immediate needs (tents, food, etc.)
of about 1,000 displaced families in Suzak town near Jalal-Abad city. In
addition, the Government requested IDA and AsDB, as well as bilateral donors,
for financial assistance towards flood emergency rehabilitation.
Preliminary Estimate of Damage
5.      A combined IDA and AsDB assessment mission was carried out in July 1998.
The AsDB assessed damage to public infrastructure (roads, bridges,
electricity, telecommunications, etc.). The initial cost estimate for
rehabilitation of public infrastructure is about $10 million, of which the
AsDB is expected to finance $5 million. The IDA concentrated on the
assessment of damage in the water and irrigation sector. In particular the
mission looked at the needs for desilting of rivers, strengthening of levees
and repair to flood damaged irrigation infrastructure. The initial cost
estimate for these emergency rehabilitation needs is about $13 million.
6.      A twofold strategy was agreed.   First, Government and the IDA agreed to
modify the existing Development Credit Agreement of the Irrigation
Rehabilitation Project(IRP, Credit 3063-KG) to finance $4 million for critical
emergency works along the Kugart river in Suzak town (Jalal-Abad oblast) and
to some of the most severely damaged irrigation headworks. The balance of
required rehabilitation works would be financed through the proposed Flood
Emergency Operation (FOE).
Project Objective
7.      The objective of the FEO is to provide emergency support to the Kyrgyz
Government in its efforts to improve the conditions of safety and stability of
rivers and irrigation infrastructure against future floods within the affected
areas of Jalal-Abad and Osh oblasts, through financing critical rehabilitation
and repairs.
Project Description
8.      To achieve the objective the proposed project would focus on
strengthening of levees along rivers at about ten locations, river bank
protection at four locations, and irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation at
about 20 locations. The project would finance primarily damages to the
irrigation infrastructure that has been caused by the floods.
9.      The proposed project could also include such aspects as: (i) the
preparation of a general strategy to reduce the vulnerability of the
population and productive infrastructure against future floods; (ii) flood
preparedness / warning systems; (iii) restoration of critical measurement
stations; and (iv) flood management of dams in the project area. These
aspects will be considered in more detail during appraisal.
Financing
-2-



10.     Preliminary estimates of the total rehabilitation needs are about $13
million, of which $4 million would be covered through modification of the IRP.
These are initial figures; more detailed costing is currently being carried
out. An IDA Credit up to $10 million could be made available. The
Government's co-financing percentage will be determined in accordance with the
final costs. Government would be responsible for financing of all taxes.
Retro-active financing of the repairs works that have already started is
anticipated.
Project Implementation
11.     The project would be implemented over a period of 2 years, beginning
early 1999. The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the IRP would also be
responsible for the implementation of this proposed operation, which would
follow the same general procedures. Technical assistance needs would be
reviewed during appraisal. It is envisaged that most construction activities
would be carried out by national contractors.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
12.     The rationale of IDA's involvement is twofold: (i) to minimize the impact
on economic priorities and investment programs, especially related to the
irrigation sub-sector, which is critical for agriculture; and (ii) to minimize
the impact of future floods.
Environmental Aspects
13.     The proposed project would be classified as a category B operation, as it
would allow for repairs and strengthening of destroyed or damaged
infrastructure. No new structures are envisaged. The project would therefore
not have any major environmental issue associated with its implementation
since it will focus on the reconstruction and repair of existing
infrastructure and facilities. The IDA would not require sub-project specific
environmental assessments (EAs), but the project would be implemented
according to the Bank's environmental policies and guidelines. The Kyrgyz
Ministry of Environmental Protection normally requires the preparation of EAs,
as is the case with the sub-projects of the IRP. This requirement would be
checked during appraisal. In any case, care would be taken that removed
sediments would be deposited in areas where there would be no direct impact on
the environment. In addition, contractors would have to take care not to
pollute the environment during construction. Any needed mitigating measures
would be incorporated in the bidding documents.
Benefits and Risks
14.     The project would have immediate benefits through the rehabilitation of
flood affected rivers and irrigation infrastructure, which would minimize the
effects of future floods.
15.     The major risk is implementation capacity.   The PIU for the IRP was only
recently established. Although the Unit has shown considerable ability in
dealing with project management issues, it still is an inexperienced group,
and this project will add additional responsibilities. In order to minimize
this risk it is envisaged that the management and engineering consultants for
the IRP would, where needed, assist the PIU in the implementation of this
-3 -



project as well.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Joop Stoutjesdijk, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-3754
Fax No.:         (202) 614-0698
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 18, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
1.      The proposed project would allow for repairs and strengthening of
destroyed or damaged infrastructure. The envisaged works include desilting of
rivers, river bank protection, levees strengthening and repair to irrigation
infrastructure. No new structures are envisaged. The project would therefore
not have any major environmental issue associated with its implementation
since it will focus on the reconstruction and repair of existing
infrastructure and facilities.
2.      The existing environmental legislation in the Kyrgyz Republic normally
requires the preparation of EAs for projects that involve rehabilitation.
This requirement would be checked during appraisal, as it may be waived in
view of the emergency nature. In any case, care would be taken during design
of the works to include any possible environmental factor. Mitigation measures
would become an integral part of sub-project design and implementation. For
example, it would be ensured that removed sediments would be deposited in
areas where there would be no direct impact on the environment. In addition,
contractors would have to take care not to pollute the environment during
construction.
3.      The project involves the rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
facilities, which were damaged during the floods of May and June 1998. It is
thought that the envisioned operations would not adversely change the quality
or quantity of water flows to other riparian states, nor would the works be
adversely affected by other riparians' possible water use. Nevertheless the
need for notification under Operational Policy 7.50 would be checked during
appraisal, after which a decision on possible notification could be made.
- 5 -



