REORWITS   NE            |              CIRCULATiNi6 COPT             RESTRICTED
ONE WEEKC   |  TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BOLIVIA
May 11, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Us$   $         1              = Pesos $     11.88
Peso  $         1              = US    $      0.08
Pesos $ 1,000,000              = us$   $ 84,175.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 Kilogram (kg)                = 2.20 Pounds
1 Metric Ton (m ton)           = 0.98 Long Tons
1 Kilometer (km)               = 0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)                 = 2.47 Acres
1 Square Kilometer (km2)       = 0.39 Square Miles
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAB                            = Agricultural Bank of Bolivia
IDB                            = Inter-American Development Bank



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................................    i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................                             1
II.    BACKGROUND  ..............................................                             1
A.   General  .............................................                           1
B.   Agriculture  .........................................                           2
C.   Animal Health  .......................................                           4
D.   Agricultural  Services  and Credit  ....................                         4
E.   Cattle  Slaughtering  and Meat  Transport  ....                   ......         5
F.   Performance  Under Credits  107-BO and  171-BO  ....                  .....      6
III.    THE THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  .................                              7
A.   Project Description  .................................                           7
B.   Detailed Features  ..................................                            9
C.   Cost Estimates  ......................................                          13
D.   Proposed Financing  ..................................                          14
E.  Procurement  ..........................................                          15
F.   Organization and Management  .........................                          16
G.   Lending Operations  ..................................                          16
H.   Disbursements ..................................                                17
I.   Auditing  ..........             ..................................             18
IV.    MARKETS,  PRICES,  PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE GENERATION                           18
V.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  .....................                           21
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .........................................                            21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bolivia in
November 1969 composed of Messrs. D. N. Sutherland, D. B. Argyle (IDA),
W. Dunn, T. Kwon and E. Root (consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB)
Table 1 - Source of Funds
Table 2 - Consolidated Balance Sheets - 1966 to 1970
Table 3 - Portfolio Distribution
Table 4 - Description of External Lines of Credit
Table 5 - Loans on Default - 1964-1970
Table 6 - Consolidated Profit and Loss - 1966-1970
2.   Cattle Slaughtering, Meat Transport and Marketing
3.   Beef Cattle Ranch Model:
Table 1 - Projections of On-Ranch Investments
Table 2 - Herd Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Operating Costs
Table 4 - Financial Projections
4.   Sheep Cooperative and Medium Size Sheep Property Model:
Table 1 - Projections of On-Property Investments
Table 2 - Flock Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales
Table 4 - Projection of Operating Expenses
Table 5 - Financial Projections
5.   Sheep Sub-Cooperative Model:
Table 1 - Projections of On-Property Investments
Table 2 - Flock Development Projections
Table 3 - Projection of Sales
Table 4 - Projection of Operating Expenses
Table 5 - Financial Projections
6.   Project Administration and Technical Services Cost
7.   Projected Sources and Application of Funds - Livestock Project Account
(Central Bank)
8.   Projected Sources and Application of Project Funds - BAB
9.   Projected Sources and Application of Funds 1971-76 - BAB
10.  Financial Rates of Return
11.  Incremental Costs and Benefits and Economic Rate of Return
MAP - Project Areas



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA Credit to enable
it to continue its program of livestock development. The Project for which
financing is sought would be the Third Livestock Development Project sup-
ported by IDA in Bolivia. Credit 107-BO, signed in May 1967, and Credit
171-BO, signed in January 1970, provide funds for development loans to ap-
proximately 260 beef cattle ranchers in the Beni Department of the tropical
lowlands and for technical services to the participating ranchers.
ii.       The proposed Project would comprise two sub-projects, one con-
cerned with beef and sheep ranch development and the other with cattle
slaughtering and meat marketing.
iii.      The beef and sheep ranch development sub-project would provide for
subloans through Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) to finance development on
cattle ranches in the tropical lowlands and sheep properties on the altiplano;
while the cattle ranches would be individually owned most of the sheep proper-
ties would be cooperatives of smallholder sheep owners. Technical services
for administration of the Project would be provided through the Livestock
Project Division (LPD) of BAB created under Project 107-BO.
iv.       The cattle slaughtering and meat marketing sub-project would pro-
vide for engagement of consultants by Government to prepare recommendations
on a program for marketing increased cattle and beef output from the Project
area. In addition it would provide finance for construction of new slaughter-
houses and cold storage facilities, and for renovation of some of those al-
ready existing and for training of up to six meat inspectors.
v.        Total cost of the Project is estimated to be US$11.0 million
equivalent, comprising US$10.1 million for the beef ranch and sheep prop-
erty development sub-project and US$0.9 million for the cattle slaughter-
ing and meat marketing sub-project. The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$6.8 million, or 62% of total Project cost. The proposed contribution
from the IDA Credit would finance the foreign exchange component.
vi.       Proceeds of the IDA Credit would be on-lent to BAB at an in-
terest rate of 7-1/4% per annum for 16 years including a five-year grace
period. BAB would make sub-loans to cattle and sheep ranchers at 12% in-
terest for 12 years including a four-year grace period. These sub-loans
would be for purchase of breeding cattle or sheep and for on-ranch devel-
opments such as fencing, water facilities, stock yards and pasture improve-
ment. Technical services would be provided through the Livestock Project
Division of BAB as under the two previous Projects. The IDA Credit would
finance 85% of the cost of consultant services under the cattle slaughtering
and meat marketing sub-project and up to 55% of cost of construction of new
slaughterhouses or repairs to existing ones.



- ii -
vii.      The financial rate of return is estimated at 17% to cattle
ranchers and 18-20% to sheep ranchers. The economic rate of return of
the beef and sheep ranch development sub-project is estimated at 18%.
By year 10, the Project is expected to increase annual production by
approximately 10,400 m tons of beef, 1,450 m tons of mutton and 575 m
tons of wool with an aggregate value of approximately US$6.8 million
equivalent of which about US$5.5 would be earned from exports.
viii.     The Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.8 million.  The
Republic of Bolivia would be the Borrower and it would assume the foreign
exchange risk.



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested an IDA Credit to help
finance the continuation of its program to develop the livestock industry.
This was initially supported by IDA Credit 107-BO of US$2.0 million, signed
in May 1967, which provided finance for development of the cattle industry
in the Beni Department of the tropical lowlands. Under this Project funds
were made available for subloans to ranchers and for technical services,
administered through the Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB). A Second Credit
of US$1.4 million (171-BO) was made by IDA in January 1970 to enable BAB
to continue to finance ranch development while this more comprehensive third
Project is under consideration.
1.02      The first Project was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
The Interim Project was prepared within BAB under the direction of the Live-
stock Project Director, after a visit by an IDA mission. The Third Project
was also prepared under direction of the Livestock Project Director, with
assistance of an IDA mission.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Bolivia in November 1969 led by D.N. Sutherland (IDA) and composed of
D.B. Argyle (IDA), W. Dunn, T. Kwon and E. Root (consultants), and brought
up to date on information collected during supervision missions in September
1970 and January 1971. Negotiations were delayed by Government changes, by
uncertainties related to the nationalization of oil properties and by Govern-
ment consideration of livestock sectoral policies.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Bolivia, with an area of 1.1 million km2, has a population of
about 4.9 million two-thirds of whom are dependent on agriculture, mostly
on subsistence holdings. Per capita income is US$200 per annum, one of
the lowest in Latin America. The rate of inflation has averaged about
4-1/2% per year since 1962. The exchange rate of b$ 11.88 to the US dollar
has remained constant since 1959.
2.02      Bolivia is divided into three fairly distinct geographical zones:
the altiplano or mountain highlands of 12,000 ft and above; the yungas or
intermediate valleys; and the tropical and sub-tropical lowlands. There is
relatively high pressure on land resources in the altiplano where two-thirds
of the population live on one-third of the country's total area. By con-
trast, population pressure is very low in the extensive area of the lowlands.



-2 -
B. Agriculture
General
2.03      While agriculture employs more than half of the work force, it pro-
duces only one-fourth of the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Agricul-
tural production declined for some years following redistribution of land af-
ter the 1952 revolution. However, there have been significant increases in
production in recent years, particularly in sugar, rice and cotton in the
Santa Cruz area of the lowlands. Beef production in the Beni Department
has also increased significantly in recent years.
2.04      Agricultural imports are approximately US$25 million annually,
the principal items being wheat, wool, dairy products and animal fats.
Apart from increasing production to replace imports of some of these items --
particularly wool and wheat -- a major opportunity for increasing agricul-
tural production lies in further development of the cattle industry in the
extensive land area of the lowlands. In addition to an increasing market
within Bolivia, there are good prospects for exporting beef to meat deficit
areas in adjoining countries, mainly Peru and northern Chile and, on a small-
er scale, north-western Brazil.
The Livestock Sub-Sector
2.05      Climatic conditions differ markedly between the three geographic
zones and this largely determines the type of agriculture practised and the
distribution of livestock. Sheep production is virtually limited to the
altiplano and the valleys. Dairy production is limited -_ concentrated
around the larger population centers of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and
Sucre, except for some production of cheese from beef nerds in the Beni and
Santa Cruz Departments. In the Beni, beef ranching is practically the sole
form of land use. It is also conducted on a lesser scale in the Santa Cruz
and Chaco areas (see Map). Beef cattle are carried in very small herds in
conjunction with sheep on the smallholdings of campesinos on the altiplano.
Beef Cattle
2.06      There are no reliable statistics on numbers of beef cattle or num-
bers of cattle ranches in the various departments of Bolivia. A study of
marketing of meat and live cattle carried out in 1969 under the First IDA
Livestock Project estimated total cattle population at approximately two
million head with 820,000 head in the Beni Department, 430,000 in the Santa
Cruz Department and 220,000 in the Chaco Department. The bulk of the re-
maining cattle are on smallholdings in the altiplano, with limited numbers
in the intermediate valleys.
2.07      Extraction, or offtake rate, of cattle is estimated to be about
10 to 11%, thus providing about 200,000 to 220,000 cattle for slaughter each
year from the total national herd of about 2 million head. Average carcass
weight of cattle slaughtered is about 160 to 170 kg, and total production



of carcass beef is in the range 32,000 to 36,000 m tons per year. Until the
end of 1970, there was relatively little import or export of beef. Average
per capita consumption is approximately 8 kg carcass beef per year, one of
the lowest in South America. However, there are wide variations in consump-
tion between different regions with relatively high levels in the larger
cities.
2.08      For the Beni Department, production in 1968 was estimated at about
16,500 tons of carcass beef. At an average carcass weight of about 170 kg,
this is equivalent to about 97,000 cattle, giving an extraction rate of
nearly 12% from the estimated cattle population of 820,000. This is similar
to the extraction rate for the beef cattle herds of Ecuador and Colombia.
Some of the cattle sold for slaughter are steers purchased from Brazil for
fattening. However, this is offset by the high retention rate of female
cattle in herds in the Beni to build up herd numbers.
2.09      Both the Beni and the Santa Cruz Departments have great potential
for increased beef production. This is true also, to a lesser extent, of the
Chaco area where rainfall is a limiting factor. The Inter-American Develop-
ment Bank (IDB) made a loan of US$5 million to Bolivia on April 21, 1970 to
help finance a project, estimated to cost a total of about US$7 million, for
development of the beef cattle industry in the Santa Cruz and Chaco area.
While heavy land clearance expenditures must be incurred in the Santa Cruz
Department, that area enjoys some advantages over the Beni Department; it
has more fertile soils and it can produce beef carcasses of better quality;
it also has better communications and tranport facilities. On the other
hand, the Beni Department, with its very large areas of well-watered grass-
lands, can produce beef at relatively low cost under the existing system of
medium- to large-scale ranching.  Because of this, further investment in beef
production in the Beni is given high priority in order to capitalize on the
available export markets in Peru and Chile. The Beni area is relatively
sparsely-populated with no apparent land pressure. Stimulation of economic
activity, based mainly on the natural grassland resources, should induce im-
migration of population into the area.
The Sheep Industry
2.10      The sheep population is estimated at about 7.2 million head, prac-
tically all being run by peasant farmers (campesinos) in small flocks of
20 to 150 head on the altiplano or in the intermediate valleys. The standard
of sheep husbandry generally is poor. Little attention is paid to such prac-
tices as castration, docking, drenching to control parasites or selective
breeding. All except a few flocks are composed of indigenous criollo sheep,
which are very small and produce only a low yield of wool of inferior quality.
2.11      Wool production is estimated at about 4.2 million kg per year,
about half of which is used by the local manufacturing industry and the
remainder by cottage industries. There are a number of small- to medium-
size textile plants in La Paz. In 1968, in addition to using local wool
production, the country imported about US$1.1 million worth of higher quality
greasy wool and wool products.



- 4 -
2.12      The number of sheep slaughtered in 1968 was estimated to be 400,000
head, equivalent to approximately 3,330 m tons of mutton, but this is prob-
ably a low estimate. There is a strong demand for mutton and the present
price to the farmer is equivalent to approximately b$ 3.50 (US$0.28 equiva-
lent) per kg liveweight, which is higher than the price for beef.
2.13      While there is considerable scope on the altiplano to improve pro-
ductivity of the sheep flocks, the implementation of a program for this pur-
pose must take cognizance of the traditional system of communal land use with
fairly strict controls over grazing rights. Apart from a limited number of
individually-owned sheep ranches of medium size, improvement of the sheep in-
dustry can best be organized through the extension of credit and technical
services to cooperatives and sub-cooperatives involving a number of small-
holders with grazing rights over a certain area of land. Government policy
also supports this objective. The Project proposal in the report would in-
clude an initial element of support to this industry (see para 3.01) utilizing
some of the experience gained under USAID technical assistance. Since this
would be a new feature of external support for livestock development, the
initial phase included in this Project is limited in scope. Provided this
approach proves successful further support may be indicated.
C. Animal Health
2.14      A number of strains of foot and mouth disease occur in Bolivian
cattle herds. Other diseases are paralytic rabies and brucellosis and
regular vaccination is required to control them. Preliminary investigations
indicate an iodine deficiency in cattle, at least in so,. 1arts of the Beni.
It is not known how much effect other mineral deficiencies and infestations
with internal parasites have on cattle performance. Cattle ticks occur but
they do not present a serious problem. Despite che presence of these dis-
ease conditions, mortality and sickness rates in cattle are not high in the
Beni.
2.15      While internal parasites are a major disease problem of sheep on
the altiplano, effects of infestation can be reduced by regular anti-para-
sitic drenching and by improved management. Malnutrition is also fairly
common in sheep as a result of overgrazing of pastures. Experience on a
number of sheep ranches and cooperatives indicates that improved breeds of
sheep can be run successfully on the altiplano, given a reasonable level
of management.
D. Agricultural Services and Credit
2.16      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for agricultural and
livestock extension services, veterinary services, agricultural research
and regulatory services such as meat inspection and control of serious
disease outbreaks. It receives assistance from a number of external aid



- 5 -
sources -- USAID, UNDP/FAO, UK Ministry of Overseas Development, West
German Technical Aid and the US Peace Corps. Despite this the services
provided to the livestock industry by the Ministry are inadequate. For
this reason, provision has been made in each of the IDA livestock Proj-
ects for a relatively large technical services component.
2.17      Medium- and long-term agricultural credit has been available in
reasonable amounts only from public sources; the most important of which
is Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB), an autonomous organization under the
general guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture (see Annex 1). The Central
Bank through its commercial banking department has also supplied some long-
term credit, but much less than BAB.
2.18      The usual cost of borrowing from banks is 30-40% per annum includ-
ing 15% interest, a tax of 9% and 3% contribution for social security. De-
velopment banks are able to lend at lower rates (12% in BAB's case) without
tax. The minimum interest payable on saving accounts is 10% and while most
companies are forced to maintain low interest balances in the banks, it is
difficult for the commercial banks to invest in agriculture at interest rates
that are competitive with BAB. BAB has been the major source of agricultural
lending. It has a wide network of branches, an experienced staff, and has
disbursed IDA Credits 107-BO and 171-BO in a satisfactory manner. It is the
logical organization for disbursing the funds under the proposed Credit.
E. Cattle Slaughtering and Meat Transport
2.19      Slaughtering of cattle and transport and marketing of meat are
generally carried out under primitive conditions in Bolivia. There is no
official system of meat inspection or supervision of premises for sanitary
conditions. There has been some investment in medium-sized slaughterhouses
but it appears to have been badly planned. The modern, well-designed Los
Andes plant near the El Alto airport for La Paz, lies idle while slaughter
of cattle and sheep is carried on under most unhygienic conditions in the
badly designed La Paz municipal plant. A large plant was constructed at
Cameare in the Beni in the early 1950's but it has operated only to a limited
extent. A modern plant (Todos Santos) was constructed several years ago
about 80 km from Santa Cruz for slaughter of pigs but it also is idle.
There was inadequate investigation of the supply of cattle and pigs for
slaughter and of the demand for beef and pork output before construction
of the Los Andes, Cameare and Todos Santos plants was undertaken.
2.20      In the Beni, cattle are slaughtered at about 43 widely scattered
establishments owned by ranchers, municipalities and meat wholesalers. Most
of them are without cold storage facilities and of very primitive design,
comprising no more than a cement floor (some lack even this) and a roof.
Because of lack of road or rail communications within the Beni and between
the Beni and the altiplano, the cattle industry is completely dependent on
air transport for marketing of beef and is likely to remain so for some years



- 6 -
to come. Airstrips are adjacent to all slaughtering establishments and
slaughtering is carried out when marketing of a plane-load of beef has been
arranged.
2.21      There are six private air transport operators engaged regularly in
meat transport operations between the Beni and the altiplano with a fleet of
about 18 aircraft, including one DC-6, two Convairs and ten C-46's. The
fleet has a capacity in excess of the demand for transport of beef and cattle
but there are periodic breakdowns in service due to poor serviceability of
aircraft. This in turn is due to owners' lack of finance for essential re-
pairs and maintenance.
2.22      Despite the shortcomings of the present system of cattle slaugh-
tering and beef transport, it has provided an essential service to the Beni
cattle industry. In 1968, some 15,700 m tons of beef were supplied from
the Beni to the altiplano by this system. This represents a trade worth
approximately b$ 100 million (US$8.0 million) per year. The system of slaugh-
tering at their own premises has been established by ranchers because there
has been no alternate means. Most would probably close such establishments
if they could market their cattle through central slaughterhouses at rea-
sonable prices. Cattle slaughtering and meat marketing are discussed in
more detail in Annex 2.
F. Performance Under Credits 107-BO and 171-BO
The Projects
2.23      IDA Credit 107-BO provided financing for development of approxi-
mately 150 cattle ranches in the Beni Department and for establishment of
a Livestock Project Division (LPD) within BAB to provide technical services
for the Project, including preparation of ranch development plans and super-
vision of approved ranch sub-loans. Sixty-eight percent of long term ranch
investment was financed by the IDA Credit, 12% by BAB and 20% by ranchers.
In addition, BAB provided short-term loans to ranchers from its own re-
sources for purchase of steers for fattening in the early years of the Proj-
ect. Funds from the IDA Credit were made available to BAB through a Project
Revolving Fund at the Central Bank at an interest rate of 4% per annum
for a period of 16 years including 5 years grace. Subloans to ranchers
by BAB were to be at an interest rate not exceeding 12% per annum for a
period of 12 years including 4 years grace. Under the Project, BAB was to
carry out a survey of live cattle and meat marketing to be financed by the
Government and a survey of land tenure in the lowlands. BAB was also to make
loans from its own resources to eight representative ranchers in the Santa
Cruz and Tarija Departments.
2.24      IDA Credit 171-BO of US$1.4 million for an Interim Second Livestock
Development Project provides for approximately 100 subloans to ranchers in
the Beni on terms and conditions identical to those of Credit 107-BO (para



- 7 -
2.22). As under Credit 107-BO, funds are provided to BAB for Project pur-
poses at a 4% interest rate for 16 years including 5 years of grace.
Performance
2.25      Progress under the Projects has been more rapid than anticipated.
BAB established the LPD soon after the Credit became effective and efficient
procedures were quickly established for preparation of ranch development
plans and for approving and supervising sub-loans. By early October 1969,
160 subloans to ranchers had been approved, committing all the funds pro-
vided in Credit 107-BO for this purpose, 12 months ahead of forecast. All
funds for on-lending to ranchers were disbursed from the Credit by the third
quarter of 1970.
2.26      The ranch development plans drawn up for subloans have followed
fairly closely the models prepared in the appraisal report of the Project.
However, initial herd size has been somewhat larger with a median of about
800 compared to 600 in the report model. In consequence, ranchers have not
needed to purchase as many additional breeding cattle as forecast and the
overall average loan has been about US$13,500 compared to US$14,500 for
the model. The appraisal mission for this Project inspected improvements and
cattle financed under the First Project on a number of ranches and was satis-
fied they were up to the standard required.
2.27      The live cattle and meat marketing survey required under the First
IDA Credit was completed in September, 1969. The survey of land tenure in
the lowlands was carried out by a team from the University of Wisconsin.
Its report has been received by BAB but has not been transmitted to IDA yet.
Satisfactory procedures have been established for granting land titles to
participating ranchers. Loans to the eight representative ranchers in the
Santa Cruz and Tarija Departments have been made.
2.28      To the end of 1970, a total of 232 loans to cattle ranchers had
been approved by BAB under the two Projects. In late 1970, the Federation
of Ranchers of the Beni made representations to the Government for easing
terms of repayment of subloans under the Project. The LPD in February-March
1971 reviewed in detail the position of 100 participating ranchers who had
sought deferment of interest payment. The review indicated that only 24 of
these ranchers needed financial assistance in the form of deferment of in-
terest payments for 3-6 months due primarily to delays in marketing of cattle.
It also indicated that, in general, the assistance made under the first two
Projects had led to substantial increases in herd numbers which will enable
ranchers to earn much higher incomes in the future.
III. THE THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Description
3.01      The Project has two basic objectives:



- 8 -
(a)  The proposed additional lending for the development of the
beef cattle industry in the Beni would help to achieve the
objectives of increased exports which are crucial to the
continued growth of the economy. The new production would
take place on areas of natural grasslands which have been
historically underutilized. Furthermore, this development
would require very little Government expenditure for infra-
structure, such as roads, and for recurrent expenditures
for services, thus sparing Government's limited resources.
(b)  At the same time that the export objectives are pursued as
described above, the proposed Project would provide for a
modest import substitution program through increased pro-
duction and upgrading of wool to supply the local wool tex-
tile manufacturing and cottage industries. Moreover, it
would provide an increase in supply of mutton which is the
principal form of intake of animal protein for the bulk of
the population. This sheep development program, in contrast
to the beef production program, would mainly assist small-
holders and would achieve an important social objective in
providing additional income to over 3,000 families on exist-
ing smallholdings in the economically depressed highlands.
3.02      The Project would comprise two sub-projects as follows:
(a) Beef and Sheep Ranch Development Sub-Project, providing for:
(i)  further subloans for on-ranch development ln arproximately
250 ranches in the Beni and adjoining area-;
(ii) subloans to approximately 150 sheep property owners in the
altiplano for property developre.:L and purchase of improved
sheep; these would be made to approximately 100 sub-coop-
eratives and 35 cooperatives of smallholder sheep owners
and to about 17 medium size privately owned properties; and
(iii) technical services in relation to both sheep and cattle
property development.
(b) Cattle Slaughtering and Meat Marketing Sub-Project, providing for:
(i) employment of consultants to make detailed recommendations
in respect to Government meat policies; establishment of
an adequate meat grading and inspection service; construc-
tion of additional slaughterhouses and creation of adequate
transport and other marketing facilities;
(ii) finance for construction of new slaughterhouses and cold
storage facilities and for renovation of existing ones
and for training up to six meat inspectors, dependent on
further consideration by IDA on receipt of the report of
consultants.



- 9 -
B. Detailed Features
Beef and Sheep Ranch Development Sub-Project
3.03      Beef Ranch Development.  This part of the sub-project would con-
tinue the program of lending for beef ranch development initiated under
Credit 107-BO and extended under the Interim Second Credit 171-BO. It is
envisaged that approximately 210 ranch subloans would be made in the Beni
Department, 25 in Iturralde Province and Pando Departments, 10 in Alto Beni
Province and 5 in Chapare Province (see Map).
3.04      As in the first two Projects, subloans to ranchers would provide
financial assistance for purchase of additional breeding cattle and for con-
struction of property improvements such as fencing, water facilities, cor-
rals, barns and housing and some pasture improvement and purchase of tools
and equipment.
3.05      The Alto Beni, Iturralde, Pando and Chapare areas are of higher
topography than the Beni and all include areas suitable for pasture improve-
ment. Because of the need for land clearing and pasture establishment, costs
of establishing beef ranches in these areas will be higher than those in the
Beni. However, improved pastures would be suitable for fattening cattle and
these areas have the advantage of better transport access to markets in La
Paz and Cochabamba and to potential markets in adjoining areas of Peru and
Brazil. Thus in addition to normal breeding operations ranches in these
areas could play an increasingly important role in fattening a percentage of
steers from the Beni to supply better quality meat for the higher income
groups in these markets. Development of a limited number of ranches under
the Project could lead to development on a more extensive scale in these
areas in the future.
3.06      The Project would increase beef production on the ranches of sub-
borrowers in three ways: first, by increasing the size of breeding herds on
pastures that are at present greatly understocked; second, by improving the
standard of cattle through introduction of better bulls of the Zebu breed;
and finally, by providing technical services to help ranchers improve their
management and raise productivity. The illustrative model for a beef ranch
of 4,000 ha (Annex 3) shows an increase from a herd of 810 cattle, with annual
offtake of 103 head (13%), to a herd of 1,595 cattle with offtake of 272 head
(18%). The increase in carcass beef production per herd would be 230%, from
17,500 kg to 58,000 kg per annum. Herd sizes of potential borrowers are
likely to vary substantially, ranging from about 150 head up to as many as
5,000 head on a small number of ranches.
3.07      Sheep Ranch Development.  Long term subloans to three classes of
sheep producers on the altiplano are proposed: approximately 100 sheep sub-
cooperatives, 35 sheep cooperatives and 17 medium sized individually owned
ranches. This part of the sub-project aims to increase mutton and wool pro-
duction on participating properties by replacing the existing criollo sheep,
with improved breeds such as Corriedale, Targai, Rambouillet and Junin. Con-



- 10 -
currently with introduction of these improved sheep breeds, property improve-
ments and improved management will need to be initiated. A significant area
of each property will be sown to improved pastures since the improved breeds
of sheep are about twice as large and require about twice as much feed per
head as criollo sheep.
3.08      A typical sheep cooperative would have a membership of approximately
45 families, with a total of about 4,300 criollo sheep before development on
about 2,000 ha (Annex 4). Under the Project, finance would be provided for
purchase of rams and a nucleus flock of ewes of improved breeds; machinery
and other inputs to improve pastures; and a limited amount of fencing, water
facilities, sheep yards, shearing sheds and plant, tools and equipment. At
full development in the ninth year, flock numbers would reach approximately
5,300, all of which would be virtually pure bred of an improved breed.
3.09      A typical sub-cooperative (a precursor of a sheep cooperative)
would have 19 to 25 members, owning about 1,150 criollo sheep on 400 ha be-
fore development and building up to 1,450 head of improved breed by the ninth
year (Annex 5). Inputs financed by the Project would be the same as for
cooperatives except that purchase of machinery for pasture improvement would
not be included. These smaller holdings would have ploughing done by con-
tract for pasture improvement.
3.10      The typical medium sized privately owned ranch would have an area
and initial flock size similar to that of the sheep cooperative. Inputs
financed on these properties would be the same as those financed for develop-
ment of cooperatives, and similar increases in flock size and production are
expected.
3.11      Technical Services.  The provision of technical services for Proj-
ect administration and execution would be continued through the LPD of BAB,
as under Credit 107-BO and Credit 171-BO (Annex 6). The present Project Di-
rector took up duty in January 1970 and it is proposed that he also act as
Director of this Project. BAB would continue to employ a qualified and ex-
perienced Project Director on terms mnd conditions acceptable to IDA and
maintain adequate staff in the LPD to administer and execute the Project.
3.12      Technical services in connection with subloans to beef ranchers
in the Beni and adjoining Departments would be administered through BAB's
regional office at Trinidad. Staff of the LPD at that center would comprise
one regional sub-project director, eight technicians, two veterinarians, one
pilot and auxiliary staff. Technical services in connection with subloans
to sheep property owners would be provided through LPD staff at BAB's re-
gional office at Oruro. Staff would comprise one regional sub-project di-
rector, one sheep husbandry expert, five technicians, one veterinarian and
auxiliary staff.
Cattle Slaughtering and Meat Marketing Sub-Project
3.13      In 1970, for the first time, there was a surplus, estimated at
about 1,500 tons of beef, in the availability of cattle for slaughter in the



- 11 -
Beni, above the demand for beef on internal markets in Bolivia. There has
been an increase in the supply of cattle for slaughter in recent years, and
one of the major contributing factors has been a fairly large-scale introduc-
tion of steers for fattening, many of them coming from western Brazil. Over
the past 12 months, the prices of cattle have risen sharply in Brazil and
the sale of steers to Bolivia has practically ceased. In 1971, there will
still be a flow of steers for slaughter as a result of earlier purchases.
Thereafter, there will be an increasing supply of cattle for slaughter result-
ing from investments made under the first two livestock development Projects.
3.14      Increasing demand for beef has resulted in marked increases in cat-
tle and beef prices in most parts of South America during 1970. As a result
of the deteriorating supply situation, Peru and Chile, both meat importing
countries, have sought to purchase beef from the Beni. A contract was signed
in March 1971 by the Federation of Ranchers of the Beni to sell 18,000 steers
on the hoof for slaughter to importing agents in Lima over six months. At
the same time representatives of the Chilean Government were in Bolivia en-
deavoring to negotiate a contract for sale of carcass beef from the Beni and
the Santa Cruz regions to northern Chile. Prices in Peru and northern Chile
are much higher than the internal prices in Bolivia. However, in the case
of the contract for sale to Lima, the price received f.o.b. in the Beni will
be a little higher than the price for sales to La Paz. The sellers in Bolivia
are not in a strong negotiating position at present because of their lack of
a marketing organization and of modern slaughtering and cold storage facili-
ties.
3.15      Demand for meat will certainly grow over the next ten years in
Peru and northern Chile. Bolivia -- and the Beni and adjoining areas in
particular -- is well situated to supply beef to both markets. The invest-
ments made under the first two Projects and those proposed under this Proj-
ect will result in increased production to supply these export markets.
However, to establish a regular export trade on a sound footing, certain
other measures will have to be taken with regard to marketing organization,
provision of slaughtering and cold storage facilities, establishment of a
meat inspection service of satisfactory standard, improvements in the air
transport system, removal of restrictions on export of beef and of cattle
for slaughter and the adoption of a meat pricing policy by the Government to
provide for differential prices for different grades and qualities of beef,
in place of the present policy which provides one price for all grades and
qualities.
3.16      An amount of about US$100,000 would be provided under the Project
to engage consultants to formulate recommendations on a program to develop
facilities and organization for cattle slaughtering, beef marketing and
transport to enable Bolivia to enter the export trade. The work of the con-
sultants would cover the requirements of modern cattle slaughtering and beef
storage facilities needed to handle increased beef output for the internal
and external markets; establishment of a meat inspection service and a system
of meat grading; policy measures to be adopted by the Government to encourage
export of beef and provide producers with incentives to increase production;
measures needed to provide a satisfactory system for transport of beef both



- 12 -
internally and to export markets in Peru, northern Chile and Brazil. They
would provide estimates of costs of construction of any proposed new slaughter-
house and cold storage facilities and repairs to existing ones; they would
also provide a projected cash flow for operation of new slaughtering facili-
ties. The consultants engaged, the individual specialists and the terms of
reference for their study would be subject to IDA approval. The report of
the consultants is to be submitted to IDA within 12 months of the date of
effectiveness.
3.17      There is at present one well-designed slaughterhouse in the
Beni, at the Espiritu ranch, with cold storage space for about 8,000 kg
of beef. The owners of this ranch are considering increasing the cold
storage capacity to 15,000 kg. The Corporacion Boliviano de Fomento (CBF)
has a large well-designed slaughterhouse with cold storage chambers on its
ranch at Reyes but it is in need of repairs to bring it up to a suitable
standard to handle beef for export. These plants could participate in the
export trade but as they are intended essentially to handle offtake of
their onœn ranches they will not serve as central abattoirs through which
a large proportion of Beni offtake could be handled.
3.18      Trinidad is the major center for slaughter of cattle in the Beni
with a throughput of 11,000 cattle per year through two slaughterhouses,
both of primitive design and lacking cold storage. The majority of cattle
in the Beni are within one week's travelling time of Trinidad by stock route.
The airstrip there is being improved with assistance from USAID, to provide
for all weather operations and night landings and takeoff. It appears to
be the logical site for a central slaughterhouse for the Be.i.  P-ovision
is made in the Project for finance for construction of or  new slaughterhouse
with capacity for slauglhtering 40 cattle per hour. Estwi- eu cost of such
a plant is approximately US$550,000.
3.19      In addition to the amount of US$550  -'  provided in the Project
for construction of a new slaughterhours   riiaance would be provided for re-
pairs to the existing CBF plant at Reye , for cold storage facilities at La
Paz or other sites for handling of beef from the Beni and for training of up
to six meat inspectors. Overall, an amount of US$800,000 would be provided
to cover all of these items. Expenditure of IDA funds on any of these items
would be subject to IDA approval following receipt of the report of the con-
sultants (para 3.15). It would also be conditional on formation of a com-
pany which would provide at least 45% capital investment in the new slaughter-
house.
3.20      The Bolivian Government has maintained a policy of controlling
exports of beef and cattle by licensing, which has in the past virtually
precluded exports. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that these
restrictions would be removed before Credit effectiveness. In January 1971,
a permit was issued for the export of cattle for slaughter to Lima (para
3.14). A system of beef price control setting lower maximum prices for lower
grades of beef and permitting higher prices for better grades would encourage
domestic consumption of the lower grades and export of the higher grades,
increasing export earnings. Assurances were obtained during negotiations



- 13 -
that the Government's beef pricing policy would be amended along these lines
within nine months of submission of the report of the consultants engaged to
study meat marketing (para 3.16), and that the Government would submit a
plan for establishing a meat inspection service and a timetable for implement-
ing it, both satisfactory to IDA, before any funds from the Credit were com-
mitted for construction of slaughterhouses or cold storage facilities.
3.21       Air Transport of Beef.  For many years to come, air transport will
remain the only system of transport for the great bulk of the beef output of
the Beni. The existing fleet of aircraft engaged in this operation can con-
tinue to provide a good service provided they are adequately maintained.
There is already one DC6 in service with another one to be added very soon
and they can provide transport for beef to Peru and northern Chile at rea-
sonable rates. For the contract for sale of 18,000 steers to Lima, trans-
port will be by Hercules aircraft provided by the buyers. During negotia-
tions, assurances were obtained that the Government would take all measures
within its powers to ensure provision of an adequate air transport service to
meet the needs of the Project, including fixing of freight rates at levels
giving efficient operators a reasonable margin of profit. These freight
rates were raised by approximately 10% early in 1970, following an inquiry
by an inter-ministerial committee.
C. Cost Estimates
3.22       The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$11.0 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 62%. The major categories
are shown below:
% Foreign
---b$ (Million) -        -----US$'000------  Exchange
Item                   Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Component
Beef Ranch & Sheep
Property Sub-Project
Beef Ranches (250)            25.0   42.5   67.5  2,100  3,600   5,700         63
Sheep Properties (150)        10.4   19.2   29.6    880  1,620   2,500         65
Technical Services             4.2    3.1    7.3    350    260         610     43
Sub-total               39.6   64.8  104.4  3,330  5,480   8,810          62
Incremental Working Capital 6.6    8.8   15.4    550    730   1,280            57
Total                   46.2   73.6  119.8  3,880  6,210  10,090          62
Cattle Slaughtering & Meat
Marketing Sub-Project
Consultant Services            0.1    1.2    1.3       10    100       110     90
Slaughterhouse Construc-
tion and Renovation /1    4.3    5.2    9.5    360    440           800      55
Total Project Cost    50.6   80.0  130.6  4,250  6,750  11,000            62
/1   Finance for training of meat inspectors is included in this item.



- 14 -
D. Proposed Financing
3.23      The estimated Project cost of US$11.0 million would be financed
as follows:
Slaughter-
Ranchers/   houses
Category                      IDA    BAB    Farmers    Companies       Total
- -                US$ million - 
Beef Ranch Development       3.60   1.00      1.10           -           5.70
Sheep Property
Development                1.62   0.58      0.30           -           2.50
Technical Services           0.26   0.35       -             -           0.61
Incremental Working
Capital                   0.73   0.55                      - -         1.28
Sub-total              6.21   2.48      1.40           -          10.09
(Distribution)        (62%)   (25%)   (13%)            -          (100%)
Slaughterhouse
Construction/
Renovation                0.45      -                     0.35        0.80
Consultant Services         0.1    0.01-                    -          0.11
Sub-total              0.55   0.01                    0.35         0.91
(Distribution)        (61%)            _             (?M%)        (100%)
Total Project Cost    6.76   2.49       1.40          0.35        11.00
(Distribution)        (62%)  (22%)    (13%)            3          (100%)
/1   This amount will be contributed by Government rather than by BAB.
3.24      The proposed contribution from the IDA Credit of US$6.8 million is
based on the estimated foreign exchange component of expenditures under each
category of the Project. As under Credits 107-BO and 171-BO, cattle ranch-
ers would contribute 20% of costs of on-ranch development. Sheep ranchers
would contribute only 12% as they would in general be unable to provide as
much finance as cattle ranchers. An amount of approximately 10% for con-
tingencies is included in the cost estimates for each category of expendi-
ture.
BAB Contribution
3.25      BAB would be required to provide approximately US$2.5 million equiv-
alent for technical services and loans to ranchers. The projected flow of
Project funds through BAB (Annex 8) shows that the maximum deficit arising
from the Project in year 3 would be US$1.3 million equivalent, if interest
due from BAB to the Government were deferred during the disbursement period.



- 15 -
3.26      BAB's ability to find its contribution to this Project is partly
dependent on its other resources and requirements. Excluding IDA funds,
BAB at June 30, 1970, had about b$27 million (US$2.2 million) available as
external resources (see Annex 1, Table 1). These resources are a number of
lines of crelit for specific purposes. BAB should be able to maintain its
level of external borrowings for those sectors outside the scope of the IDA
Credits and the proposed IDB livestock loan. Under this latter loan, BAB
is required to provide US$855,000 but approximately US$500,000 of this
amount will be provided by the Government to BAB.
3.27      To examine BAB's ability to contribute to the proposed IDA Credit,
a cash flow projection was prepared for BAB on the basis that:
(a) the Government would contribute about US$500,000 to the
IDB Project; and
(b) other net resources and lending to sectors outside the
scope of IDA Credit and the proposed IDB loan would remain
constant.
3.28      From this it was apparent that BAB would not, during the develop-
ment period, be able to meet its proposed contribution and pay interest to
Government on the Third Livestock Loan without drawing on its other lines of
credit. Over the proposed 16-year repayment period, however, BAB could pay
the IBRD rate of interest to Government and still have a surplus at the end
of the period. During negotiations, BAB and Government suggested that to
overcome this short-term problem, Government would for five years allow BAB
to defer payment of this interest, except for the amount required to meet
IDA service charges. The deferred interest would be capitalized and added
to the principal at the end of year 5. The capitalized value of this inter-
est would be approximately US$1.5 million.
3.29      A projection of BAB's cash flow over the next five years (Annex
9) assuming (a) and (b) above, and the deferment of interest shows a cumula-
tive deficit reaching about b$ 3.5 million (US$0.3 million equivalent) by
the end of the second year. This is only about 1-1/2% of total portfolio and
could be easily covered from additional borrowing from current lines of
credit, etc. Subsequent cash surpiluses would quickly cover this deficit and
then allow BAB to build up its reserves and loan portfolio.
E. Procurement
3.30      Goods required for development of cattle ranches and sheep pro-
perties would be obtained by property owners through existing commercial
channels. Experience under Credit 107-BO has shown that these channels
are adequate for Project purposes. Vehicles and office equipment for the
LPD would also be purchased througlh existing commercial channels.



- 16 -
3.31      All purchases of breeding livestock would be subject to the ap-
proval of the Project Director, with respect to quality, suitability and
price. Breeding rams and ewes would have to be imported from the neigh-
boring countries of Argentina, Chile, and Peru or from Uruguay. Plant and
equipment supplies for abattoirs would be subject to international competi-
tive bidding and contracts for construction and renovation of abattoirs
would be subject to competitive bidding.
P. Organization and Management
Administration and Technical Services
3.32      Government would be the Borrower as under Credits 107-BO and
171-BO. All lending to cattle ranchers and sheep property owners under the
Project would be done through BAB. The Project Director appointed for Credit
107-BO would also serve as Director for this Project. He would also be the
director of the LPD established within BAB under Credit 107-BO. The LPD
would provide technical services and prepare property development plans as
a basis for all subloans to both cattle ranchers and sheep property owners.
3.33      The Project Loan Committee, created under Credit 107-BO and
composed of the BAB General Manager, the BAB Credit Manager and the Project
Director, would continue to have responsibility for approval of subloans
recommended by the Project Director on the basis of property development
plans drawn up by staff of the LPD. It would disapprove loan applications
only on the basis of the prospective borrower's creditworrhin2ss. Assur-
ances on these points were obtained at negotiations. Financially and admin-
istratively BAB would process the approved cattle rarc' and sheep property
subloans through its Trinidad and Oruro regional offices, respectively.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IDA approval would be ob-
tained for any individual subloans in excess of US$100,000 equivalent as
under Credit 107-BO and 171-BO.
3.34      A Project Commission has been established comprising representa-
tives of the Central Bank, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Fed-
eration of Ranchers of the Beni and BAB. This Project Commission would be
responsible for drawing up terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, for the con-
sultants to be engaged for further investigations on cattle slaughtering and
meat marketing (para 3.16). It would also be responsible for engaging and
supervising the consultants. It would review the report of the consultants
and prepare recommendations for review with IDA before further expenditures
under the cattle slaughtering and meat marketing sub-project would be made.
G. Lending Operations
3.35      IDA funds would be channeled through a Project Account at the Cen-
tral Bank. Under the first two Credits, funds were passed on to BAB for



- 17 -
approved project purposes at an interest rate of 4% per annum. For the
Third Project, funds would be passed on to BAB for approved Project purposes
at current IBRD interest rate (7-1/4%) for a period of 16 years, including
a five-year grace period on repayment of capital and on interest except for
an amount of 3/4% per annum. The resultant spread of 4-3/4% is considered
adequate to cover BAB's expenses associated with the Project, provision for
doubtful debts and to enable BAB to accumulate reasonable reserves (paras
3.25-3.27).
3.36      Long-term subloans would be made by BAB to cattle ranchers to cover
80% of on-ranch investment cost and to sheep property owners to cover 88% of
on-property investment cost. In both cases, subloans would be at an interest
rate of 12% per annum, or such other rate as may be agreed from time to time
between IDA, the Borrower and BAB, for a period of 12 years, including a
four-year grace period on repayment of principal.
3.37      BAB would also make short-term loans to participating sheep and
cattle ranchers over the first five years of the Project to cover their re-
quirements for working capital as determined by the relevant ranch development
plan. These loans would be at an interest rate of 12% per annum, or such
other rate as may be agreed between IDA and BAB and for periods up to two
years as determined by the ranchers' ability to repay. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that short-term loans would be made on these
conditions.
3.38      Bolivia's rate of inflation during the past few years has held
steady at about 4-1/2% per annum. If this rate continues during the Credit
commitment period of the subloans, there would not be a need for indexing
of subloans at a nominal interest rate of 12%. If, however, the rate of
inflation should increase substantially, then a suitable system of indexing
would be neeced to sustain a positive rate of interest and prevent impair-
ment of capital. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that if the
rate of inflation in Bolivia should rise above 8% per annum during the
life of the Credit, Government would ensure that BAB would make no further
loan commitments nor permit further withdrawals in respect thereof under
the subsidiary Loan Agreement until an agreement had been reached with
IDA on arrangements to be applied for indexing in respect of future sub-
loans.
3.39      Terms and conditions for loans for construction of a new slaughter-
house or renovation of existing ones would be determined at the time IDA ap-
proval of such loans was requested, following receipt of the consultants'
report.
H. Disbursements
3.40      Disbursement of the Credit would be made, subject to appropriate
documentation and certification by the Project Director against:



- 18 -
(a) 78% of long-term subloans for ranch development;
(b) 57% of short-term subloans to cattle and sheep ranchers
to cover their requirements of working capital;
(c) 85% of approved expenditure for consultant services to
carry out studies and submit recommendations on cattle
slaughtering and meat marketing;
(d) the foreign exchange cost of technical services provided
through the LPD of BAB; and
(e) up to 55% of expenditure approved by IDA (100% of BAB
loans) on construction and renovation of slaughtering
and cold storage facilities and on training of up to
six meat inspectors.
I. Auditing
3.41      Accounts of the existing IDA Credits within BAB are subject to reg-
ular internal auditing and are also audited each year as part of the general
external audit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate
accounts would be kept by BAB and the Central Bank for the Project and that
these accounts would be audited annually by an independent accounting service
acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA
within 3 months of the close of the financial year of the respective institu-
tions.
IV.  MARKETS, PRICES, PRODUCER BENEFITS AND REVENUE GENERATION
Beef Markets and Prices
4.01      As a result of increasing production arising from the three IDA-
financed livestock Projects, it is expected that there will be increasing
surplus of beef for export from the Beni in the future. This is estimated
to be of the order of 8,000 tons by 1975 and 17,000 tons by 1980. Provided
a sound system of marketing of cattle and meat is introduced, as proposed
under the Project, there should be little difficulty in selling these sur-
pluses in Peru, northern Chile and northwestern Brazil.
4.02      The present system of price controls results in a substantial in-
centive to export, but the elimination of quantitative restrictions and the
introduction of price control regulations to provide a system of qualita-
tive differentials (para 3.18) would further stimulate exports as well as
production of higher quality beef. The 'official' price in the Beni is
b$ 4.60 (US$0.39 equivalent) per kg carcass beef for cattle delivered to
the slaughterhouse. There is some variation in actual prices paid from



- 19 -
b 4.20 to b$ 4.90 per kg, depending largely on whether the transaction is
cash or credit. The wholesale meat trader meets costs of slaughter (about
b$ 0.1 per kg) and air freight (b$ 1.10 to b$ 1.20 per kg) and sells beef ex
cold store in La Paz at a price of b$ 6.30 (US$0.53 equivalent) per kg which
is well below the wholesale price in Lima (US$0.70 per kg) and northern
Chile (US$0.69 per kg). The price of b$ 4.60 per kg has been used in as-
sessing future returns to ranchers, and this is considered a conservative
estimate of future price trends.
Markets and Prices for Mutton and Wool
4.03      Statistics on mutton production and consumption are inadequate.
However, there is strong demand for mutton at a price equivalent to b$ 7.00
(US$0.59 equivalent) per kg carcass weight. The production increase arising
from the Project is estimated at approximately 1,450 m tons of carcass
mutton per year by year ten. This could be absorbed readily at the current
price, particularly as the mutton would be of much better quality than
the present supply. However, it would probably be purchased as a substitute
for beef and thus lead to an increased surplus of beef for export.
4.04      About 90% of the national production of wool is of coarse,
inferior quality from criollo sheep. Criollo wool sells at b$ 3.00 to
b$ 7.00 per kg, wool from cross bred sheep at b$ 8.00 per kg and wool from
pure corriedale sheep at b$ 9.00 per kg. The local textile industry is a
ready market for finer wool from breeds such as corriedale and their
crosses. Current imports of better quality wool and wool products are
valued at about US$1.0 million annually. No difficulty is anticipated
in marketing the additional production of about 575 tons per year of
better quality wool from the Project at the above prices.
Producer Benefits
4.05      Substantial increases in income would accrue to ranchers and
sheep property owners from investments under the Project (see Annexes 3,
4 and 5). Typical results based on projections for the beef cattle ranch
and sheep property models are shown below:



- 20 -
Before          After           After
Development      6 Years         10 Years
Beef Cattle Ranch:
Total Herd (Animal Units)               622            1088             1186
Production (No. of Cattle)              103             195              282
Net Cash Income (b$ 000's)                40             41              122
Herd Value (b$ 000's)                   420             768              924
Sheep Sub-Cooperative:
Total Herd (Sheep Equiv.)               550             750              900
Wool Prod. (kg)                         624            1690             2620
Sheep Sales (No.)                       135             217              288
Net Cash Income (b$ 000's)                3               3               16
Flock Values (b$ OOO's)                  42              73              134
Sheep Cooperative and
Medium Sized Property:
Total Herd (Sheep Equiv.)              2060            2940             3310
Wool Prod. (kg)                        2505            7278            10350
Sheep Sales (No.)                       516            1127             1180
Net Cash Income (b$ OOO's)                6               9               80
Flock Value (b$ 000's)                  159             366              491
4.06      The financial rate of return on incremental investment is estimated
at 18% to the cattle ranchers, 20% to the sheep cooperatives and private
sheep properties and 17% to the sheep sub-cooperatives (Annex 10).
Revenue Generation
4.07      From Year 7 onwards, cattle ranchers would accumulate increasing
cash balances. By Year 10, the aggregate incremental cash balance is
estimated at US$2.25 million for 250 ranchers. Insofar as a land tax now
under consideration by the Government, or other new taxes, are not introduced,
most of this would represent disposable income and a large proportion of it
would be saved. In addition, ranchers would have substantially larger cattle
herds which would provide a base for further increase in herd numbers. There
would still remain substantial opportunity for further increases in beef cat-
tle numbers on the extensive grasslands of the Beni. Provided appropriate
measures are taken to ensure adequate incentives to export, it is expected
that most of the additional revenue accruing to cattle ranchers would be
invested in further ranch development.
4.08      In the case of the sheep properties, total annual incremental cash
balance by Year 10 is estimated at about US$430,000, but, for the individual
members of the cooperatives and sub-cooperatives increased cash income would
only be small -- US$200 and US$50 respectively. Most of this extra income
would, no doubt, be used for consumption rather than for savings. The owners
of the medium sized sheep properties would probably save a larger proportion
of their additional income and re-invest it in further property development.



- 21 -
V. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      The Project is expected to increase annual production, in approxi-
mately 10 years, by 10,400 m tons of carcass beef, 1,450 m tons of carcass
mutton and 575 m tons of wool. It is expected that a large proportion of
the beef would be exported for a return of US$5.5 million equivalent, net
of freight. The additional wool production would have a value of approxi-
mately US$410,000 and it would be used to replace imports. The additional
mutton, valued at US$850,000, would be consumed locally. The sheep sub-
project would have considerable social benefits as it would provide addition-
al income to over 3,000 families on existing smallholdings on the altiplano.
5.02      The economic rate of return on the new investment under the beef
ranch and sheep property development sub-project is estimated at 18%
(Annex 11).
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government
would:
(a) take all measures within its power to ensure the provision
of air transport facilities adequate for the needs of the
Project including, without limitation, the establishment
and maintenance of air freight tariffs at levels adequate
to ensure a reasonable profit for existing air transport
operators carrying livestock or livestock produce to do-
mestic and foreign markets (para 3.21);
(b) if the rate of inflation in Bolivia should rise above 8%
per annum during the Credit commitment period, ensure that
BAB would make no further loan commitments nor permit with-
drawals in respect thereof under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
until an agreement with IDA had been reached on arrangements
for indexing to be applied in respect of such further loans
(para 3.38);
(c) engage consultants, approved by IDA, with terms of reference
and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, to carry out
investigations and make recommendations on cattle slaugh-
tering and meat marketing and submit the report of said
consultants to IDA within 12 months of the date of Credit
effectiveness (para 3.16);
(d) within nine months of receipt of the consultants' report,
and with due regard to the recommendations included therein,
adopt a beef price policy acceptable to IDA to provide



- 22 -
for differential prices for meat of different grades and
qualities (para 3.20); and
(e) prior to commitment of any funds from the Credit for con-
struction or renovation of abattoirs or cold-storage facil-
ities or for training of meat inspectors, submit to IDA a
plan for establishment of a meat inspection service of a
standard satisfactory to IDA and a timetable for implement-
ing it (para 3.20).
6.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that BAB would:
(a) make subloans to cattle ranchers, on terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA, to cover 80% of total on-ranch invest-
ments for approved Project purposes (paras 3.04 and 3.36);
(b) make subloans to sheep property owners, on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA, to cover 88% of total on-property
investments for approved Project purposes (paras 3.07 and
3.36);
(c) during the first five years of the Project, make short-term
loans to participating ranchers on terms and conditions ac-
ceptable to IDA, to cover their requirements of incremental
working capital as determined by the relevant ranch devel-
opment program (para 3.37);
(d)  continue to employ a qualified and experienced -o1ect
Director, acceptable to IDA, on terms and cor. : _,s ac-
ceptable to IDA (para 3.11); and
(e)  maintain the Livestock Project Div-, established under
Credit 107-BO to provide technical services for Project
administration and executiorn (yara 3.11) and increase its
staff to service increased Project lending (para 3.12).
6.03      It would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit that all
quantitative restrictions on the export of beef from Bolivia had been
eliminated (para 3.20).
6.04      The proposed Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.8
million. The Borrower would be the Republic of Bolivia, which would assume
the foreign exchange risk.
May 11, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Agricola de Bolivia
Introduction
1.        The Banco Agricola de Bolivia (BAB) was established by supreme
Decree, dated February 11, 1942, and was reorganized in 1963. Its main
functions are to promote agriculture and to provide agricultural credit.
The Bank is a legally autonomous government agency under the general
direction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Long-term policies are determined
by this Ministry but allocation of funds is the responsibility of the Min-
istry of Finance.
Organization and Management
2.        The Board of Directors is the highest authority in the direction
of BAB's activities and is composed of a President and Vice-President,
appointed by the President of the Republic, and three other directors. One
director is appointed directly by the Ministry of Agriculture, and the other
two are nominated by the private agricultural and livestock sectors, but
must be approved by the Ministry of Agriculture.  Terms of office are 4 years
for the President and 2 years for all other directors.
3.        The Executive Committee, consisting of the General Manager as
President, and the managers of the four divisions of Credit, Finance and
Accounting, Cooperatives and Administration, acts as a decision-making body
and as an advisory group to the Board. This Committee evaluates and approves
large loans, decides on procedures in default cases and performs other normal
executive functions.
4.        The General Manager is selected by the Board of Directors and is
officially appointed by the President of the Republic. He is the principal
administrative and executive authority of BAB.
5.        BAB is organized into three area offices under the national office.
These area offices control eight regional offices, which in turn supervise
41 provincial agencies throughout the country. BAB's staff is made up of
career officials and numbers 216 at present, 71 of whom are located in the
national office in La Paz.
Resources
6.        The authorized capital of BAB is b$ 1,000 million.  Lending re-
sources come in part from grants and in part from capital subscriptions by
the Government. Special lending programs are carried out by BAB as an agency



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of the Government. As of June 30, 1970, total resources amounted to b$ 257.3
million, of which capital funds were b$ 86.3 million, loan funds b$ 117.1 mil-
lion and agency funds b$ 55.5 million (Table 1).
Lendin& Policies and Procedures
7.        BAB grants short-, medium- and long-term loans.  Regulations stipu-
late that maximum terms be 18 months for short-term, 7 years for medium-term
and 20 years for long-term loans. The maximum period on long-term loans
made to date has been 12 years. Loans for the purchase of machinery and
livestock can be granted on a long-term basis with a 1 to 4 year grace per-
iod. IJhile the interest rate is 12% per annum for all loans, it is mandatory
for loans originating from resources contributed by AID by the terms of the
contracts with AID. All loans must normally be secured by mortgage of real
estate or chattels.
Lending Activities
8.        BAB has increased its activities considerably over the last 3 to
4 years. Outstanding loans rose 40% between December 1966 and June 1969
(Tables 2 and 3). Over this same period, liabilities rose by 126% as most
of the new sources of funds came from borrowings rather than capital (The
source and terms of foreign credit can be seen in Table 4.). However, BAB's
debt-equity ratio is low at 0.72:1. With the proposed livestock loans from
IDA and IDB, debt equity ratio will rise to about 3:1 -- a figure lower than
many banks.
9.        As of June 30, 1970 BAB's total portfolio was    aQllows:
b$ 'OO0            %
Outstanding Normal Loans             153,135           83.2
Loans on Default                      31,213           16.8
184,348         100.0
Funds Committed                       13,617
Total                          197,965
(See Table 3 for detailed breakdown.)
10.       The percentage of loans on default (16.8%) is high and arises from
lending a substantial part of the portfolio to farmers badly needing finance
but with very limited resources. As a government bank, largely capitalized
for this purpose, a high level of defaults can be expected. Also BAB does
not have a policy of readily refinancing loans in default and thus showing
them as normal portfolio. (See Table 5 for recent trends on percentage of
loans on default, which has been fairly constant between 1964 and 1970.)
11.       In recent years BAB has adopted policies that should, in time,
ensure improved collection performance. One is the encouragement of coop-
eratives and sub-cooperatives. A loan to a group is not only safer but more



ANNEX 1
Page 3
easily administered than many loans to individuals. It is also more effec-
tive in helping the individuals. BAB has also increased its lending to the
large and medium size farmers (particularly livestock) and a great part of
the increased future lending will go to this group.
Efficiency
12.       BAB made small profits in 1966/67 and 1967/68, incurred a small
loss in 1968/69, and in 1969/70 broke even (Table 6). Considering the low
cost of BAB's resources, profitability is disappointing. Between 1964 and
1968, loans under US$1,000 comprised 60% of the number but only 8.3% of the
value of loans granted. Large loans to cooperatives and individual loans
over US$10,000 comprised 9% by number but 65% by value.
13.       BAB is aware of the administrative costs of small loans and is en-
deavoring to direct its assistance to small farmers by means of cooperatives
and sub-cooperatives. With the increased lending program to large and medium
size farmers and cooperatives under the proposed IDA and IDB Livestock Proj-
ect, efficiency should improve.
14.       At present, salaries and associated costs comprise over 60% of
total expenditure. (Salaries compare well with civil service and other sala-
ries in Bolivia.) To obtain a guide to efficiency, BAB has delineated be-
tween its various programs and prepared separate profit and loss statements.
However, before these will provide a worthwhile guide to profitability, a
more accurate determination of administrative costs is necessary. While BAB
has made progress on its accounting procedures, management is aware that these
need further strengthening and have a program for additional specialists and
more training. In connection with the livestock project in Santa Cruz, IDB
staff will assist BAB to determine this breakdown. Under Loans 107-BO and
171-BO, IDA required BAB to establish and maintain separate accounts.
15.       Part of the high costs of BAB's staff is a result of difficulties
in communication. This necessitates the establishment of many small and
often unprofitable agencies throughout the country. Consideration should
be given to closing some of these offices, except for, say, one day per
week when staff could come from a nearby larger office. With better organi-
zation, it is felt that present BAB staff could cope with a greater volume
of lending and, apart from specialists needed for new programs, should be
adequate for several years.
Accounting and Auditing
16.       BAB has an accounting section in La Paz that maintains reasonable
records of all BAB activities. Accountancy procedures in branches are im-
proving under the guidance of the head office staff.
17.       External auditing is performed annually.  AID has employed an
auditor for recording BAB loan records and to assist BAB with its internal
auditing section, which is now well established. The Chief Internal Auditor
reports to the Board of Directors through the General Manager.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
18.       Generally, auditing and accounting practices appear satisfactory,
except for the break-down of costs of administration (para 15). More use of
cost analysis as a management tool is required.
May 11, 1971



ANNEX 1
Table 1
B O L I V I A
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banco Agricola de Bolivia
Statement of Funds
(As of June 30, 1970)
Initial Amount        Amount         Amount not
Available          Drawn          yet  Drawn
LOAN FUNDS
Inter-American Development Bank CBF/BID-1-SF                        1,920,000   23,o40       23,o4o             -
Agency for Internation Development AID-511-028                      2,100,000   24,224       l0,473           13,751
Bank of America - Sugar Cane - Santa Cruz                             500,000    6,ooo        6,ooo             -
Bolivia Central Bank:
Tropical Production (Refinanced)                              1,410,000   17,000       10,771            6,229
Bermejo Sugar Cane                                              500,000    6,ooo        1,750            4,250
International Development Association IDA-107/BD                    2,000000   24,000       22,345            1,655
IDA-1 71/BD                  l 400000   16 800         -             16,800
Sub-total .............                       ,0   7              7,379            42,65
AGENCY FUNDS
Colonization Program BID-29-SF/BO                                   2,600,000   30,875       27,676            3,199
iural Development Program BD-35-SF/H)                               1,100,000   13,062       11,400            1,662
Coffee Program AID-443-60027                                           40,000       480         320              160
Wheat Program AID-1018                                                 20,000       240         240             -
Rice Warrant and Production AID-1020                                  600,000    7,200        1,230            5,970
Argentine Government Loan                                             300 000    3 634        2 181            1 453
Sub-total .............      .           4,660      ,        5,43001   7           t2SE
117,42           55,129
BAB CAPITAL
Share Capital (Subscribed out of AID Loans to Government            5,664,500   67,974
Donated Capital (ex-SAC)                                            1,598,000   19,179
s:apital not represented by Snares (tovernment initial
orovision and recoveries)                    92 800    1 114
Leas:                                                               7'355'3       Ze
Net Losses (Cumulative to present year)                               161,500    1 938
7,193,800   86 329
Total .................2 .   2j't2
May 11, 1971



ANNEY. 1
Table 2 
BOLIVIA
THIRD LIV ',sTOCK DEVFLOPMENT PROJRCT
Bancorjcola De Bolivia
Consolidated Balance Sheets
ASSETS                                  December 31, 1966    December 31, 1967    June 30, 1968          June 30, 1969       June 30, 1970
- ----------- -------- ----------- - ---------- --- -$b ' 000------- --- ------- -- ------- -- - ------------ 
Cash                                                                                                                                   11,836
Local Currency                        11,631                  7,531                 9,082             10,103               10,169
Foreign Currency                         526                    519                   695                592                l ,617
Time deposits in foreign currency    2,063                      531                 2,793                443
Loan Portfolio                                      14,421                  8,581             12,570                11,138
Normal Loans                          75,520                 81,743                85,805            106,402              111,755  173,581
Past due Loans                         2,174                  2,353                 2,075              1,826                 2,105
Loans in hands of Legal Dept.         13,316                 15,027                14,855             23,811               24,200
Interest & Commissions Receivable                             7,287                 8,337              7,286               11,894
Less Provision for Doultbf"1. Debts      4,257                  5,330                 5,958 1. 7,812                           9,373
86,753               101,079            105,1114               131,513
Accounts receivable                                                                     939                 8314                         6,157
less nrovision                                                                          -                150
993                   955                939                    683
Pronerty and Eouiipment
(Less depreciation)                                 1,964                 2,279              2,548                  4,415              4,435
Other Assets                                           667                    991              1,153                 1,545               8 742
Operatiors Pending                                      81                    789                447                   407  ____0
TOTAL                                              104.799               114,675             122,771              1149,701             204,751
LIABILITIES
Loans Payable                                       21,591                17,561              25,188                53,932             105,076
Provision for Interest                                 227                    179                246                   442                 847
Provision for Indemnsities                           1,108                 1,362              3,158                  3,187              14,ll1
Provisions for exchange differences                    221                   239                 393                   144                 235
Collection for National Treasury                     3,787                  3,787              3,787                 3,787               3,787
M4iscellaneoos account                                 583                    895              1.118                   951                  223
TOTAL                                               27,726                 24_351             33.891                62.711 _.       .114579
Deferred Interest
2,406              2,340                                     3.81h3
Capital                                 85,927                 87,753                87,779             88,180                88,267   86,329
Less Accumulated Deficit
Previous                            637                   610                  2,1440               959                 1,924
Current Year                       (107)    83.663       (614)    87.917        (902) 86,540        236      86.985 ------
TOTAL                                          _  104  799               114,675             122,771               149,701     -      204,751
May 11, 1971



B O L I V I A
THBID LIVSTODil 4DIOO        P8ROCT
BOIO AB8L.OLL EC 02UVJ5
P087.10M10 DMSTRIBDIION
1964                  1965                 1966                   1967                  1968                     1969              1970)
Progren            Source of FPnd.          June     DecenbLer   Jun        Debr  June            Decr         Deer June  De           e       Ds                        cber    June
Old Portfolio      Intern 'l Sources
(Previous to       and Old Loans            4.131     3.591      3.1149      2.876     2.720       2,623      1.362      1.219       1.110      1.008          .966        894         896
1963)
YoNrl                   1.64L      1.190        792         552       4L20       369        403         266        183         1h6          134         -
Overdue                    111        80         92          93         h          2          1lh       -          -           -             12         -
So Ltlgtti-u            2.376      2.321      2.266      2.231      2.296      2.252         9hS        953        927         862          820         894        896
Regulur BAB        Eu-Co, AID-511-
Funde              LC.L-019 end AID-
511-22-140-4h2         32.355    43.277      57.328     60.556    73.993      77.099      83.373     88.812     86.023      76.976       77.060     74,844      79,408
Culmittud               3.0145     2.941      5.813      6.415      7.93h      7.095       9.083      8.594      6.206       2.193        2.557       1,L42      2,659
Nors                   24.404    34.507      46.515     47.711    59.632      61.840     65.618      70.283     70.196      62.087       61.573      57,858     61,930
Overdue                 1.733      2.236        988      2.283        613      1,704       2.377      2.138      1.8b1       2.639       1i.03        2,972      i,487
Is Litigntion           3.173      3.55h      4.013      h.148      3.814      6.501      6.296       7.796      7.779      10.057       11.427      12,572     13,332
Oegul   BA3B       0ID-1/SF                11.9Th    15.572      18.983     18.896    17.80L      16.457     15.8h1      16.256     15.362     311.349       12.463     11.293      10,464
1june0l                10.848    l4.325      17.464     16.710    31.611      11.473       9.475     10.774      9.916       8.588        5.299       5,072      4,755
Ovurdu-                   -          398        680      1.353        187        318         226        246        243         302          256         336        336
n Litigatigon           1.066        848        838        833      6.006      4.666      6.140       5.236      5.203       5.459        6.907       5,885      5,373
Thr-1 level-       35-SF/Bo                                                    108        14b        928      3.639       3.149      5.002       7.958       10.217     10,629      10,679
099000
C.-intted                                                    78        78        393       2.125      1.177      1.209       2.976        2.381       1,083        197
U.Lmlo                                                      30         66        535      1.507       2.233      3.597      LO355         7.263      8,164      80,72
'ovrdue                                                     -         -                        6         39        199         331          359         892        232
To Litigtioon                                                                                           -          -           298          211         484      1,578
Clnom.-tio        29-SF BO                                                    375     1.021       1.O0l      2.742      14.851     14.302      13.991       13.885     30,346      29,67f
iO.064      3,1.0
C..nittod                                                   81         68       l.       1.069      11.485      a.031       7.180        4.759     11,025      20,056
DormSl                                                     295        983        817      1.673       2.908      5.468      6.409         9.112         26          80
Overdue                                                    -          -          120         -          326         -          102           IL        631
In   t.tg -                                                                      -           -          133        -           -L-
Coffee Coguer-    AID-511-24-150-
niLli-lo o n        43/60027                                                             48o         180        480         440        402         209          362        320         320
Coeitted                                                             220        220         -                     -           -           -                 -
Nornal                                                                260        260         480        440        1OO         209         -            2B0
In Litigution                                                         -          -           -          -          -           -            362           o        -
-          310
4ioe Conner-       Al-lOin, of
eoialtottlon       gonoE-o'                                                                                   1.699      3.680
C-o,tlttul                                                                                   -            2
Noovul                                                                                     1.699      1.977
overdue                                                                                               1.7031
mport -nd          iID-511-LCL-
Lou.  Pur-         028                                                                                                      820      6.549      6.9h2         9.574     10,274      10,584
or=Lnted                                                                                                332      1.002         960        2.581       2,462       ,46o0
Noml                                                                                                   488      5.547       5.274        3.209       3,797      7.253
Overdoe                                                                                                 _                      262           41         338         77
I. LitigAtion                                                                                           -          -           146        3.743       3,677      1,734
SCu-r rune C        eotrLL  Book                                                                                                      332       1,793        1,790       1.5';5     1,75,4
CF-nittOd                                                                                                          138        331            46        -
loonl                                                                                                              144      1,462         1,747      1,730      1,754
Wheot              4ID-511-LC-10108                                                                                                     37        268          634         031        510
ToLLitted                                                                                                            6         61           314        150         103
NoroLL                                                                                                              31        194           287        10          2 74
o-erdue                                                                                                            -          -              24        281
IT  Litiuti-n                                                                                                     -           13             9         32        113
Pice               AID-511-LCL-102C                                                                                                 2,41C       1,525        2,8s5       1,349      1,187
Co uetted                                                                                                          363        360           304        -           _
No.e-l                                                                                                           2,Z67        -           1.807         41         291
Zverdue                                                                                                                     i,i65          678         924        179
To Lititonlvn                                                                                                                 -              60        934        017
Deiry Cattle       AengetteWv    G.orereneet                                                                                                      872        2,102       2,063      2,087
CsLLLtted                                                                                                                     203           225        225         220
no-mel                                                                                                                        669         1,077        560          96
vord-e                                                                                                                        -             -            0
IT  Litigati-o                                                                                                                -             -        1,208       1,7f4
s     Cg-r Banee   Ovk of A.-erca                                                                                                               5,520        5,436       2,266      1,849
Cumotted                                                                                                                      385           200        290
N-orenel                                                                                                                    5.137         5,146 13  Oe c
Overdue                                                                                                                                                970
e Litigution                                                                                                                         -                 -         1,842
Benti Livst-ok     1DA-107/BO                                                                                                                   9,607       22.881      33.908     39,218
CgLLmintted                                                                                                                 2,061         4,699      3,782       3,702
lonooal                                                                                                                     7,946        10,182     2369828     34,38
-verie                                                                                                                       -             -          298         125
To Litigation                                                                                                                 -             -          -         1,033
Rive Corner-       SOe-i.1 flodo for
oollinnine         v-on-oic develop..ent
(Centrel Bool)                                                                                                                -           3,000      2,707      5,002
C =cittet                                                                                                                     -           1,oo0        -           369
N.eal                                                                                                                         -           2,000        -         4,633
Overdue                                                                                                                       -             -        2.707         -
rn Litiiation
Prouctign end
Coen erolelil eionSo
CereaLs            AID 511-:71C-10                                                                                                               _             -        1,200       4,401
CoLLitted                                                                                                                     _             _           35       1,247
NorL LL-                                                                                                                                             1,165       3,154
Overdue
In Litiglt-on
POPT3 LIo                48,       62,440     79,460      82,811   94,192      90,639   109,136    129.527    131 565   141,022        163,229    i84,479    197,965
CoLLLitted              3.045     2,941       5,813      6,574    8,300       7,822    12,277      21,590      17 824    16.710        19,156     28,139      13.617
verde.                   36,096    50  62      64 771     65,297   72,972      75,254    800855      69,369      97,549   102,076       117,636    120 659    153,135
Ovrr                      1,044     2,711.      1,766      3,720       8o4      2,144      2,623      4,45o5      02023     5,101         2,087      9,954       2,516
In Litigtl-on             6,615     6,723       7,117      7,212   12,116      13.419    13,381      14,118      13,909    17.135        23,550     25,827      28,697
I<ay 11, 1971



B O L I V I A
-THIRD LIVE:STOCK DEVELOPENT PROJECT
H                                                  BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
DESCRIPTION OF E'XTE7R1AL LINMES OF CREDIT
(June 30, 1969)
Date of     Total Amount    Grace Period   Interest Rate    Term
Source              Use                   nig         (US$ 00)          (Years                        (%(Years)
LOAN FUNDS
IDB           Normal Loans               4/15/64         1,700             4- 4.5                        10
4/27/65          220             --               --            --
AID           Import of US Goods         3/22/66         2,100              9½             1 (10 yrs)    40
2.5
BANK OF
AMERICA     Sugar Cane- Santa Cruz   12/15/68            500             --             7.5             3
IDA           BENI Livestock             5/26/67         2,000              5              4             16
ID-           BENI Livestock (interim)  6/30/69          1,400              5              4             16
AGENCY FUNDS
IDB           Colonization               5/20/65         2,600              3              4             15½
TDB           Rural Development          6/26/65         1,100              3              4             15
AIlD          Coffee                     14/18/67          140             --              7              6
AID           Wheat                      1/15/68            20              5             1 (5 yrs)      20
14
AID           Rice Warrant & production 5/16/68            600              3              2 (3 yrs)    20
14
ARGENTINE                                                                                                            JI
GOVERNMENT  Dairy Cattle               7/18/68           300              1              4              3
CENTRAL BANK  Rice Marketing             6/19/69           900             --             6               1
IDB           Oriental Livestock Proy.  4/21/70          5,000              5             3.25           25



B O L I V IA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
"3                                                                         BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
'0                                                                              Loans on Default
Dec. 31196D4                           Dec 31. 1966        Dec 31, 1967        Dec. 31, 1968        June 30, 1969      ec.  1  130 Ju
Consolidated Portfolio                  62,440    -         82,811    -         98,638     -       129,528     -       141,021     -       163,230     -      184,479     -      197,965      -
Less: Comitted Loans                      2,941    -         6,574    -           7,821     _       21,591     -        16,709     -        19,156      -      28,139      -       13,617     -
Effective Portfolio                     59,499   100.0      76,237   100.0      90,817    100.0   107,937    100.0   124,312    100.0   144,074    100.0  156,34o   100.0   184,348   100.0
Normal Loans                       50,061    84.1      65,297    85.6      75,255     82.9    89,369      82.8   102,076      82.1    117,637     81.7  120,659    77.2   153,135    83.1
Loans on Default                     9,438    15.9     10,940    14.4      15,562      17.1    18,568     17.2    22,236      17.9    26,437       18.3   35,681    22.8    31,213    16.9
Consolidated Portfolio (Except
Loans of Old Portfolio)                58,849    -        79,935    -         96,015      -      128,309     -       160,013     -        162,266     -      183,585     -      197,139     -
Less: Committed Loans                     2,941    -         6,576    -           7,821     -        21,591     -       16,709'    -         19,156     -       28,139     -       13,617     -
Effective Portfolio                     55,908   100.0      73,361   100.0      88,194    100.0   106,718    100.0   123,304    100.0   143,108    100.0   ,,,446   lo0.0    183,522   100.0
Normal Loans                       48,871    87.4      64,745    88.3      74,886      84.9    59,103     83.5   101,930      82,7    117,503      82.1  120,659    77.6    153,135    83.4
Loans on Default                     7,037    12.6       8,616    11.7      13,308     15.1    17,615      16.5    21,374      17.3    25,605      17.9   34,787    22.4    30,387    16.6
Source: Computed using data from Table 3.



B O L I V I A
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                 Banco Agricola de Bolivia
H                                          Consolidated Profit & Loss  (1966-70)
Jan. 1, 1966- Jan. 1, 1967- July 1, 1967- July 1, 1968- Jui- 1, 1969-
Dec. 31, 1966 June 30, 1967 June 30, 1968 June 30, 1969 June 30,1970
I_N C 0 M E
Interest                            8,760          4,854         11,562         12,541         16,089
Commissions                           264            126            173            246            222
Other                                 180             64            491          1,305            823
Total ..............    9,204          5,044         12,226         14,092         17,134
OPERATING EXPENSES
Salaries                            4,191          2,202          5,438          6,169          6,592
Payroll taxes                       1,543            528          1,264          1,461          1,492
Provision for indemnities              --            141            336            404            517
Office expenses                       181            114            191            316            352
Service expenses                      302            174            420            568            591
Travel expenses                       364            190            468            821            679
Vehicle maintenance                   242            120            290             365           392
Legal expenses                         98             35             15            141            124
Other expenses                         54             86             60            226             -
Audit fees                            184            171            256            104            482
Depreciation                          283            141            338            486          1,038
Provision for doubtful debts          179            535          1,274          1,514          1,634
Losses of machinery, etc.             163             --             --              --           -        H
Interest on loans                   1,484            500            974          1,753          3,254
Total ..........  9,268                4,937         11,324         14,328         17,147      c H
Profit (Loss)                         (64)           107            902            (236)          (13)
9,204          5,044         12,226         14,092         17,134



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cattle Slaughtering, Meat Transport and Marketing
Present Slaughtering Methods
1.        Under the present system of slaughtering cattle in the Beni at
43 widely scattered establishments no system of meat inspection or enforce-
ment of hygiene is possible. Supreme Decree No. 07773 of August 1966,
promulgated regulations for meat inspection and other sanitary requirements
in slaughterhouses but these regulations are not enforced either in the
Beni or in other parts of Bolivia.
2.        In 1969, about 97,000 cattle were slaughtered in the Beni for
carcass beef production of about 16,500 tons, 90% of which was transported
by air to La Paz and the three mining centers -- Oruro, Potosi and Quechisla
on the altiplano. The average throughput per slaughterhouse was about
2,200 head. However, four or five plants had a throughput in the range
4,000 to 6,000 head, while many small plants had less than 1,000.
3.        None of the plants operates on a full-time schedule as they
carry out slaughtering only when they have made arrangements to market a
plane load of beef. Thus the largest plants (only one or two) slaughter
on about 185 days a year and many of the smaller ones less than 50 days
a year. Airstrips at most of the plants are grassed and are often unusable
because of wet weather.  For safety, it is usually arranged that the
chartered plane lands at the strip in the evening, slaughtering is carried
out before dawn and the meat loaded immediately. The operation employs
about 12 men and the cost is about US$1.65 equivalent per head.
4.        There are two slaughterhouses at Trinidad, adjacent to the air-
strip. Both are of primitive design and have no cold storage facilities.
5.        The best slaughterhouse in the Beni is on the Espiritu ranch,
the property of Elsner Hermanos Pty. Ltd. It is of simple but good design
with adequate equipment for handling and dressing cattle on the rail and
a good water supply. The total annual slaughter of cattle at Espiritu in
1969 was approximately 4,000 head, about 20% of which were purchased from
other ranchers. Espiritu itself carries about 18,000 cattle. The offtake
of 3,600 includes a proportion of steers purchased for fattening. It has
cold storage capacity for 8,000 kg of beef and the owners have considered
increasing this to 15,000 kg.
6.        The Corporacion Boliviano de Fomento operates a slaughterhouse on
its ranch at Reyes. Throughput in 1969 was about 2,500 head. It operates



ANNEX 2
Page 2
as a service plant, slaughtering cattle for other ranchers at a fee of
b$ 18 (US$1.50 equivalent) per head.
7.        Apart from a few ranchers, such as Espiritu, who have cold storage
and sell their beef wholesale in La Paz, sales of beef from the Beni to
La Paz are made through about 16 wholesalers belonging to the Associacion
de Proveedores de Carne. Individual wholesalers have cold storage chambers
in La Paz with an aggregate capacity of approximately 110 m tons; i.e.,
about 3 to 4 days' supply for La Paz.
8.        In July 1969, the Federation of Ranchers of the Beni signed an
agreement with the national mining corporation (COMIBOL) to supply 320 m
tons of carcass beef per month at a price of b$ 4.60 per kg (net of tax)
delivered at the slaughterhouse in the Beni.
Supply and Demand
9.        Total offtake of the Beni in 1969 was about 102,000 head, 97,000
being slaughtered in the Beni and 5,000 being transported by river to Todos
Santos for slaughter for Cochabamba. There was previously a movement of
about 15,000 head per year to Santa Cruz but this has been virtually stopped
because of taxation by the municipality of Ascension of cattle en route.
10.       La Paz and the mining centers, which absorb over 90% of the Beni's
beef output, consumed about 24,000 tons of carcass beef in 1969, one-third
coming from the altiplano and two-thirds from the Beni.
11.       Production of carcass beef from the Beni has been increasing in
recent years, both on ranches participating in the IDA Project and on non-
participating ranches. In 1970, there was a surplus of cattle for slaughter,
estimated at 1,500 tons of beef above demand within Bolivia. Some of the
production increase has been due to offtake of steers purchased from Brazil
for fattening but increasingly in the future there will be production
increases through enlarged breeding herds and improved productivity.
12.       An analysis of farm development plans of ranchers participating in
the IDA Livestock Development Project indicates that from these herds alone,
there should be an increase by 1975 of 30,000 cattle for slaughter, equivalent
to 7,660 tons of carcass beef and by 1980 of 81,000 cattle and 18,700 tons
of beef, above the 1970 production level. In addition, there will be sig-
nificant increases in production arising from the IDB financed project in
the Santa Cruz and Chaco areas; some further increases can also be expected
from ranches in the Beni not participating in the IDA Project and from
livestock owners in other areas. Allowing for growth in demand of 3-1/2%
per annum in La Paz and the mining centers, it is estimated there will be a
surplus of about 10,000 tons of beef for export from the Beni by 1975 and of
about 19,000 tons by 1980.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Export Markets
13.       Peru is a substantial importer of meat as shown by the following
official projections of imports for 1970, given to the appraisal mission in
November 1969.
PERU
Projected Meat
Imports, 1970       Carcass Beef
Live Cattle       Equivalent          Value
(no.)             (m. tons)        (US$)
Live Cattle ex Colombia       73,000              16,110          14,016,000
Live Cattle ex Argentina      30,300               8,330           6,635,700
Frozen Beef ex Argentina        -                   4,430          2,215,000
Chilled Beef ex Argentina       -                  1,200             852,000
Beef Offals                                        9,050           3,496,600
Total Beef and Offal                         39,130          27,215,300
Frozen Mutton                                       8,100          3,402,000
Sheep Offals                                        1,115            276,500
Total Meat                                   48,345          30,893,800
14.       In addition to the above sources of imports, there is a large
movement of live cattle from Ecuador to Peru. Until 1966, some beef from
the Beni was imported by air to Arequipa in the southern highlands of Peru.
Exports in 1966 were estimated at about 600 m tons but the trade has been
curtailed by regulations that require all beef imports to Peru to be handled
through the Government buying agency in Lima (EPSAP) and by Bolivian Govern-
ment action to limit exports.
15.       Discussions by the appraisal mission with Government officials in
Lima in November 1969 indicated that Peruvian authorities would consider
favorably import of beef from Bolivia through EPSAP, provided it was of
suitable quality and price. Carcass beef of steers 3 to 4 years old, with
dressed weight of 200 to 220 kg of the type that can be produced in the Beni,
is quite acceptable.
16.       The official price of carcass beef in Lima in November 1969 was
US$700 equivalent per ton delivered into cold store. This is equivalent to
approximately b$8.32 per kg and it has almost certainly risen since then.
After allowing for air freight to Lima, estimated at about b$ 2.10 per kg,
the Lima market should provide a better return than the present price of
b$ 4.60 per kg for the markets of La Paz and the mining centers of the
altiplano.
17.       In September 1970, Peruvian importers endeavoured to make a
contract with producers in the Beni for purchase of about 1500 tons of beef



ANNEX 2
Page 4
for delivery to Arequipa. This contract fell through because of failure to
obtain an export permit from the Bolivian Government. However, in January
1971, a contract was finalized between EPSAP and the Federacion de Ganaderos
del Beni for export of 18,000 steers to Lima for slaughter over 6 months and
a permit for the export has been issued.
18.       Northern Chile.  The mission did not visit Chile, but the survey
of live cattle and meat marketing carried out under the First Livestock
Project investigated prospects for export of beef from Bolivia to that
country. Chile as a whole is an importer of 40,000 to 50,000 m tons of
beef per year, practically all from Argentina in the form of both live
cattle and beef. Within Chile, livestock production is concentrated main-
ly in the central and southern regions. The northern zone imports beef
and cattle from Argentina and from other parts of Chile. In January 1971
representatives of the Chilean Government visited Bolivia to endeavour to
enter contracts for purchase of beef from Bolivia.
19.       Northwestern Brazil.  There is a market in some of the medium-sized
towns of northwestern Brazil, such as Rio Branco, Guajara Mirim and Porto
Velho, for beef or cattle from the northern Beni and the Pando Departments.
In January 1971, one rancher in the Beni entered a contract to supply 750
steers per month for slaughter to these towns.
Future Slaughterhouse Requirements
20.       Present slaughter of approximately 97,000 cattle per year in the
Beni is equivalent to approximately 390 per day on the basis of 250 days of
operation per year. Projected offtakes for 1973 and 1975 are equivalent to
approximately 520 and 720 cattle per day, respectively.
21.       The plant at Espiritu and the one at Reyes, if it is reconditioned,
could handle some beef for export to Peru and Chile in the near future.
However, there is a need to construct a new plant to operate as a central
abattoir and handle the bulk of the cattle to be slaughtered for export.
22.       For a variety of reasons, the additional capacity could best be
provided through a central slaughterhouse at Trinidad, at present the major
center for cattle slaughter in the Beni. For purposes of hygiene and meat
inspection to meet export requirements, a central plant is much more suitable
than a number of small plants. It would also be in a better position to
establish and maintain market outlets for beef on both internal and export
markets. Furthermore, it could cater to the needs of the different markets
by supplying meat of different grades and qualities, e.g., higher priced
cuts of hindquarter beef for the Lima market. As the Trinidad airstrip is
being equipped for all-weather and night operations within 2 years, a central
plant with cold storage chambers would permit much more efficient use of
aircraft than is presently possible.
23.       It is considered that a plant at Trinidad could expect to attain
a throughput of about 50,000 cattle by 1974, through increase of offtake



ANNEX 2
Page 5
and diversion of cattle from existing small slaughterhouses. This through-
put would be expected to increase rapidly thereafter.
Air Transport
24.       Because of lack of roads within the Beni and between the Beni and
the altiplano, practically all beef from the Beni is transported by air.
This situation will almost certainly continue for many years to come.
25.       At present the six air transport operators engaged regularly in
transport of beef from the Beni make about 50 round trips per week, flying
beef to La Paz, Oruro, Potusi and Quechisla on the altiplano. At the time
of appraisal, freight rate was fixed by government on the basis of b$ 2,400
(US$202) per hour flying time for a C-46, equivalent to a cost of b$ 1.40
(US$0.12) per kg of beef from Trinidad to La Paz. This rate gave operators
only a small margin for profit but it has since been raised by about 10%.
26.       With adequate maintenance, the existing fleet has a capacity to
handle about 2000 tons of beef per month between the Beni and La Paz,
assuming only 20 flights per plane per month. The actual supply at present
to La Paz and the mining centers is about 1300-1500 tons per month. With
one DC6 in service and another to be brought into service soon there will
also be adequate capacity to handle transport of the exportable surplus to
Peru and northern Chile for some years to come. Under the contract for
sale of 18,000 steers to Lima for slaughter, transport will be by Hercules
aircraft provided by the Peruvian importers.
27.       Figures on payloads and estimated freight costs between Trinidad
and La Paz and Lima are given below for the C-46, the DC-6A and the Lock-
heed Hercules, each used to capacity:
Return
Flight              Capacity
Aircraft    Hours       Load        Time    Cost per   m tons
Route           Type     Per Year   (m tons)   Hours    Kg (b$)   Per Year
Trinidad       C-46       1,200        5.5        3.4       1.23       1,900
to La Paz    DC-6A       2,000       13.5        2.6      0.86/1    10,400
Hercules   3,800       20.0        1.9       0.7371    40,000
Trinidad-
Lima and
Return       DC-6A       2,000       13.5        6.3       2.10/1     4,250
Direct       Hercules   3,800        20.0        5.15      1.9971    14,700
Trinidad/2
Lima and
Return via   DC-6A       2,000       13.5        7.2       2.47/1     3,750
La Paz       Hercules   3,800        20.0        5.8       2.407T    13,100
/1   Costs calculated with full payload but without backloading; costs
include amortization of cost of aircraft at 12% over 7 years for
DC-6A and over 15 years for the Hercules.
/2   This route would be undertaken only if there was backloading Lima-
La Paz or La Paz-Trinidad, which would lower the quoted freight cost.
May 11, 1971






BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
x 4,000-ha Beef Cattle Breeding/Fattening Ranch
Projections of On-Ranch Investments
o 3
Investment
Phasinr by',Year
Average Units  Unit Average Cost    1          2        3         Total Cost for
Investment                  Per Ranch    Cost    Per Ranch    Cost    Cost    Cost             250 Ranches             F.E.C./
Category                                   B$       B$O000          B$OOO0 B$'OO0 B$1000   Pesos '000    US$ '000 -    U$$2000
Fencing(km)                   20         3,200        64         20      22       22        16,000         1,347    50      673
Watering Facilities(no.)
Farm ponds                   1        2,000          2  )                                    500            42    -        -
Wells                        1         3,000         3)        10        5       5           750            63    -        -
Well-mill-tank                .6      25,000         15  )                                 3,750           315    50      157
Buildings (no.)
Barns                        1        5,000          5          3        2       -         1,250           105    20       21
Housing                      1       12,000         12          4       4        4         3,000          253    20        50
Machinery Tools & Egui me)nt   -           -            6         6        -       -         1,500           126    50       63
Corrals (no.)        sets      1         8,000         8          4       4        -         2,000           168    -        -
Pasture Establishment (no.)  20            600        12          4        4       4         3,000           253    25       64
Breeding Cattle (no.)
Cows or heifers             90           900        81         81        -       -       20,250          1,705   100   1,705
Bulls                       13        3,000         39         21        9       9         9,750           820   100      778
Contingencies                                         23         15        4       4         5.750           503    17       89
Total                                                270        168       54      48        67,500         5,700    63   3,600
1/ F. E. C.: Foreign Exchange Component.
HILJ



ANNIII1
Table 2
BOLIVIA
THIRBD LIVESTOCK D7IVELOPAWNT PBSIECT
4.000-ha Beef Cattle Breeding/patteping 5.n.h
Her   -1,eeot Proejectl
Before          -- -  Bhd of Projeet Tear - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -
Category                                  Develop,eet       1            2            3            4            5           6             7           8            9           10
Herd Composition
Bull3                                        12           16           16           16           16           18          18           18           18           18           18
Breeding Coo                                287          391          395          406          409          450          i50         450          450          450          450
Clalee                                      11.1.        144          216          238          264          286         315          315          315          315          315
Heifer, 9-24 o-onth.                         72           72           72          108          119          132         143          157          157          157          157
Steers  9-24 raonth3                         72           72           72          108          119          132         143          158          158          158          158
Heifer, 21-36 ,eoth,                         68           69           69           70          106         117          130          11.0         151.         151.         151.
Steer-  24-36 emeth.                         68           68           69           69         106          117          129          110          155          155          155
Steers  36-4.5 -moths                        65           65           65           66           68         101          114          126          137          152          152
Coll Cow,s                                   22           22           31           32           32           32          36           36           36           36           36
Porcha,ed Steer,                             -            50           50           50           50           -           -            -            -            -
Total                                       810          969        1,055       1,163        1,289        1,388        1,478        1,5hO        1,580        1,595        1,595
Anial Unit, (a.oo)                          622          781          791          877          975       1,036        1,188        1,114        1,179        1,186        1,186
Stocking Rate ha/a...                         6.5          5.1          5.1          L.5          4.1          3.9         3.7           3.5          3.1         3.4          3.4
Technical CoeffiCient,
Effectire C3aling Percenta8e                 50           50           55           60           65          70           70           70           70           70           70
Mortality Rate (Percentage:
Cows                                    10           10            8            6            5            5            5            5            5            5            5
Other,                                    5            5           h             3           2            2            2            2            2            2            2
Eatractime Hate (Percentage)                 12           10            9            9            9            9          13           IL           15           17           18
Total Carrying Capacity (a'.o')             900          950       1,050        1,150        1,200        1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250        1,250
Carcass Weights (kg):
Steer-   3-4 yeere                      180         180          180          180          180          200          200          200          210          210          210
Heifer, 2-3 year,                      150          150          150          150          180          180          180          200          200          200          200
C1l1 Coo,                              150          150          150          150          180          180          180          200          200          200          200
Bull.                                  200          200          200          200          200          220          220          220          250          250          250
Porchased Steer,                       180          180          180          180          180          190           -            -            -            -            -
Porchaseo
Bo11                                         3            7            3            3           4             5           3            h            3            3            3
Breeding Cow,/Heifer                                      90           -            -            -            -
Steer,                                       -            50           50           50           50          -            -            -            -            -            -
Tota1                                         3          147           53          53           54            5            3            h            3            3            3
Mortality (No.)
Bu1 1                                        -            -            -            -            1           -            -             1           -             1           -
Breeding Coo,                                29           29           31           20           24          20           22           22           22           22           22
Heifer  9-24 ..oths                           3            3            3            2            2           2            2            3            3            3            3
Steer  9-24 .moths                            4            4            3            3            2           3            3            3            3            3            3
Heifers 24-36 .-Dth,                          3            3            3            2            1           2            2            2            3            3            3
Steer-   24-36 ucnthe                         3            3            3            3            2           2            3            3            3            3            3
Steers  36-48 sontle                          1            1            1            1            1           1            1            1            1            1            1
P-r.has.d Steer,                             -            -             1            1           1            1           -            -            -
Tctal                                        1.3           3       -45              36           34          31           33           35           35           36           35
Sale3
Steer, 36-48 Month,                          64           64           64           64           65          67          103          113          125          136          150
Purchased Steer,                             -            -            19          49           19           49           -            -            -            -            -
Coll C..,                                    22           22           22           31           32          32           32           36           36           36           36
Heifer, 24-36 e.oth.                         14           -            -            -           10           11           57           70           79           93           93
Hollo                                   _    3             3            3            3            3           3            3            3            3            3            3
Total                                       103           89          138          147         159          162          195          222          243          268          282
Total Carca,.  Beef Prodocti- (kg)         17,520       15,120      25,220       26,570       28,400       31,600       37,720       44,460       50,000       55,110       58,050
Vaue of Salle, (S B$4.6/kg) B$             80,592       70,932     116,012      122,222      130,640      1b5,360      173,512      204,516      230,000      253,506      267,030
Mar1h 20, 1970



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCIC DUEVTPMENT PROJECT
4,000.ha Beef Catthe Breiding/Fattening Ranch
Proiection i! Operiting uosts
(Pesos)
- - - - - __ -  __ -    __ __ -  __ __ -_---    Project Year v - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
P!                            Before
o    Category              npp o=pn t   1           2        3         4         5        6         7          8         9       10
Cow Tax4/                  144      144       189       196       207      233       250       250        250      250       250
U     Slaughter Tax-             780      780       960    1,087    1,087        983    1,215      1,725      1,965     2,153    2,153
Labors'                  8,400    8,400     8,400    10,800    10,800    10,800   10,800    13,200     13,200    13,200   13,200
Maintenance of Labor     7,200    7,200     7,200     9,600    9,600      9,600    9,600    12,000    12,000    12,000    12,000
Vaccires and        /
Veterinary Supplies    8,130    8,130    11,050    14,154    18,080    23,022    28,680    31,300    33,080    34,380    34,380
Salt, Mineral Supplants6/  813      813    1,842      3,033     4,520    6,395     8,604     9,390      9,924    10,314   10,314
Maintenance and Repairs:
Iachinery 10%            400       400      400       400       400       400      400       400        400       400      400
Buildings  5%            750    1,100    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400    1,400         1,400      1,400    1,400    1,400
Fences     5%          1,000    2,000    3,100    4,100       4,100     4,100    4,100    4,100       4,100    4,100    4,100
Water      5%            500    1,000     1,250    1,375      1,375     1,375    1,375     1,375      1,375     1,375    1,375
Corrals    5%            -         200      400       400       400      400       400       400        400       400      400
Purchase of BullsX       9,000       -        -         -      12,000    15,000    9,000   12,000       9,000     9,000    9,000
Contingencies 10%        3,712    3,017     3,619    4,656      6,396    7,368    7,581      8,754      8,709    8,897     8,897
Sub-total               40,829    33,184    39,810   51,201   70,365   81,076   83,405    96,294       95,803    97,869    Q7,869
Purchase ofdASteers        - ;   35,000    35,000   35,000   35,000        -         -         -          -        -         -
Total Operating Costs   40,829   68,184    74,810   86,201  105,365    81,076   83)405   96,294        95,803    97,869   97,869
1/ B$0.50 per cow.
T/ B$7.50 per head slaughtered.
3/ Foreman B$300 per month; other laborers B$200 per month.
4/ B$200 per man per month.                                                                                                                       FM'
g/ B$10 per head befjre developmrfit, risini  to B$20 per head Year:6.
6/ Salt B$0.80 before developmen; rising to B$6.75 in Year 8; mineral supplants B$1.00 before development, rising to B$6 in Year 8.
/ For replacement bulls only, other purchases financed ex BAB loan.



BDLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMINT PROJECT
4.000-ha Beef Cattle Breeding/FatteninR Ranch
- Fin-anciaProj cions
(T'0O Pesos)
Before       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Project Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
s                                                Developmen t    1          2           3          4           5          6          7           8          9          10         L1         12
G CASH INFLOW
o0      Cattle Sales                                 80.6       70.9      116.0       122.2      130.6       145.4      173.5      204.5       230.0      253.5       267.0      267.0       267.0
°)      Long Term Loan                                 -       134.4       43.2        38.4         -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -
Short Term Loan                               -        45.0        45.0       45.0       45.0        25.0
Rancher's Contribution                        _        33,6        10.8        9.6          -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -
Tctal Cash Inflow                      80.6      283.9      215.0       215.2      175.6      170.4       173.5      204.5       230.0      253.5       267.0      267.0      267.0
CASH OUTFLOW
Investnmt1/                                   -       168.0        54.o       48.0          -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -
Operating  .cpenses                         40.8       68.2        74.8       86.2      105.4        81.1       83.5        96.3       95.8        97.9       97.9       97.9        97.9
Total Caah Outflow                     40.8      236.2      128.8       111i.2     105.4        81.1       83.5       96.3        95.8       97.9        97.9       97.9        97.9
ANNUAL CASH BALiANCE BEFORE DEBT SERVICE      39.8       47.7        86.2       81.0        70.2       89.3       90.0       118.2      134.2       155.6      169.1      169.1       169.1
SERVICE CHAROES
Long Term Loans
Interest                                   -         8.1       18.7        23.6       25.9        25.3       24.0       22.0        19.4       16.2        12.3        7.8         2.6
Amortizatimn                               -          -           -          -           -        .0.8       10.8        21.6        .1.        32.4       32.4       43.2        43.2
Short Term Loan:
Interest                                   -         2.7         5.4        5.4        5.4         5.4        1.5               -                -           -          -           -
Amortization                               -          -         45.0       45.0       45.0        45.0       25.0                           -                -          -
Total Service Charges                    -         9.9       69.1        74.0       76.3        86.5       61.3       43.6        41.0        48.6       44.7       51.o      4J5.8
ANNUAL CASH BAIANCE AFTER DEBT SERVICE        39.8       37.8        17.1        7,0       ( 6.1)       2.8       A.7         75.6       93.2       1C7.0      124.4       11861      123.3
INCREUISETAL ANNUAL CASH BALANCE                -       ( 2.0)      (22.7)     (32.8)      (45.9)     (37.0)      (1.1)       45.8       53.4        67.2       84.6       78.3        83.5
INCRE14ENTAL HERD VALUE (ANN1JAL)               -       106.6         6.6       57.0      101.9        32.7       36.6       39.2       119.4         5.4         -          -           -
TOTAL INCREMt5TAL BALANCE (ANNUAL)              -       104.6       (16.1)      24.2        56.0      ( 4.5)      35.5        85.0      172.8        72.6       84.6        78.3       t3.5
]   Includes ranchers contribution to investment, 50% as labor.
2/  Repaid 5% years 5 and 6; 10% years 7 and 8; 15% years 9 and 10; 20% years 11 and 12.



BOLTVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Cooperative or Medium Sized
Private Property - 2,000 ha
Investment Phasing by Years
Investment                               Unit   Average Cost         1        2        3
Category                     Average    Cost       Per Farm        Cost    Cost      Cost       Total for 50 Farms
Units/Farm  -   - -Pesos-- - -B$                B$        B$       B$'000      US$1000
o  Structures and Equipment
o    Fencing                  (km)        4       3,200       12,800         12,800    -         -           640          54
Farm Ponds               (No)        3      3,000         9,000         3,000   6,000      -            450         37
%    Wells                    (No)         6      2,000       12,000          6,000   6,000      -           600          50
O    Tractors and Implements (Sets)        ½   115,000        57,500         57,500    -         -         2,875         240
Tools and Equipment      (Sets)      -     12,000        12,000         6,0oo   6,000      -            600         50
Sheep Yards              (No)        2      2,500         5,000         2,500   2,500      -            250         21
Shearing Sheds           (No)         ½    25,000        12,500        12,500    -         -            625         52
Shearing Plants          (No)        ½g   14,400          7,200         7,200    -         -            360         30
Veterinary Equipment    (Sets)       1      3,000         3,000         3,000    -         -            150         12
Pasture
Pasture Establishment   (ha)       400        300       120,000        45,000  45,000   30,000        6,0oo        500
Livestock!/
Breeding Rams            (No)       40      1,200        48,000        24,000  24,000      -          2,400        200
Ewes 2-4 Tooth           (No)      150        300        45,000        30,000  15,000       -         2,250        188
Contingencies-/                                            34,000         20,500  10.500    3,000       1,700         142
Total                                               378,000       230,000 115,000   33,000       18,900      1,576
1/ Imported from neighboring countries.
2/ Estimated at approximately 10%.
(D&



BOLIVIA
TN1RD LlVESTOCO  DE"ULMMT PROJEdT
ShoB o               d    :Is_.oo           00o h.
CATE30RY  _  beifore                                 - - - -          End of Tear                         - - - - - - - - -   -20
CATEGOR  ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     Deeopnnt              02                              36567                                                                        8-20
Flcok Oos,po.1tlnn (No.)
Flook Rage (2rp-eved breeds)                              _               20              33             66              80              80              80              80              80
FPlock  Hes (Criolio)                                    144              90              70              30              -              -               -               -               -
breeding E-e                                           1,800           1,900           1,965          1,968           2,0 0           2,000           2,000           2,000           2,000
Lbste                                                    990             990           1,140          1,277           1,378           1,500           1,500           1,500           1,500
2-Tooth Bees                                             425             425             435            500             575             627             705             705             705
2-Tooth Wether                                           275             275             335             303            325             277             150             150             150
2-Tooth Rn,                                             1is              150             100            170             150             150             255             255             255
.,thorn                                                  350             350             350            350             350             350             350             350             350
Coil Een                                                 196        _ 196               152             195             295             300             300             300             300
Tote1                                                  4.330           4,396          4.1'5       _ 4859           _.153              5,284           5,340           5,340           5,340
Dsothe (N..)
Flock Rams                                                lh              14              11               8               7              6               5               5               5
Breedi.g E.-s                                            180             180             170            l56             138             140             120             120             120
eL,                                                      140             iLl             120            137             127             124              90              90              90
2-Tocth Ewns                                              43              43              38             35              35              L0              37              42              42
2-Tooth Wethers                                           28              28              25             27              21              24              14               9               9
2-Tooth R-2s                                              15              15              14              8              12              11              12              15              15
Wethers                                                   35              35              32             28              25              25              21              21              21
Cu11 Ev        _                                          19              _9              18             12              21              21              18              18              18
Total                                                    474           _7_              428             413             386             391             317             320             320
Proha-es (No.)
Breeding Rraes                                            -               20              20             -               -               -               -               -               -
Breeding Bwes                                             _              100             50
2-Tooth Bee.
2-Tooth RBen                                              _               -              _                       -                       -               -               -               -
Total                                                     -              120              70
Solno (No .)
1o110e,sv                                                 13              68             40              60              37              20              20              20              22
Rans (9-23 month,)                                       107             107            167              56             130             113             113             215             215
Raen I,ass                                                -               -               -               -             100             200             300             30C             300
C011 Bee                                                 177             177            178             130             27.             274             282             282             282
Col1 2-Toot} Eoes                                          6               6              13             44              -               95             170             243             243
Wethers - 2-Tooth                                        112             112             118            180             157             129             142              20              21
Wethers  _0                                                              100_           100             100             100             100             130             100             10O
Total                                                    516             570             556            580             798             931           1,127           1,180           1,18C
Brfore   - _ _~~~~         ~~~~~ - - -          - - - -  - - - Y     -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
__  ievelops,t        1               2               3               4                              6                7              8          9-20
lechniorl CoefiToleote
,hbing %                                                  55              55              62             65              70              75              75              75              75            75
M-rt-lityAdoe-                                            10              10               9               6               7               6              6               6               6             o
(anOn;    6                                     134             14              _2              12              10               9               6               6               8            6
otio  Rs- to  E-e      7                                   3               6               6               5              4               4               4               3               4             4
Stooking Rate (Corriedale Sheep Eqoivalents)           2,060           2,150          2,340           2,620           2,780           2,850           2,9L0           2.990           3,150         3.310
Corryiog Capooity (Coroedole Sheep Eqolvolents)    2,100              2,200           2,400           2.700           2,800           3,000           3,000           3,100           3,200         3,200
Cooroooioo RAte i:                                        12              13             12              12              15              15              21              22              22            22
Wool Yields(kg)
Adult Sheep per heed                                       0.75            0.8             0.9             1.0             1.2            1.5             1.7             1.9             2.1           2.5
Sob-Total Wool                                         2,505           2,725           3,074          3,682           4,530           5,676           6,652           7,296           8,3064         ,602
Lameb -e, 200d                                            -               -               -              -                O.4             0.5             0.7             0.7             G.7           C.7
Sob-Total Wool                                            -               -               -               -             551             750             750             750             750           750
Total Wool                                             2,505           2,725          3,074           3,682           5,061           6,426           7,276           7,946           8,614        10.350
Price: oreros lep  kg                                      6.0             6.5            7.0              7.5            8.0             0.0             6.5             8.5             9.0           9.C
Sheep laronoe WeIght (kg)
Ra                                                         9               9               P             10              10              12              16              18              20            24
Ra   (9-24 months)                                         8               9              10             12              18             l               20              20              22            24
Co.ll Ee                                                   7               8              9              10              11              12              12              12              ill           16
Ones (9-24 .ooetha)                                        8               8               8               9             12              14              15              16              16            16
Wethers                                                    8               9              15              0h              16             17              18              16              20            72
7loe Per Sheep (peeoe)
RBsa                                                      63              63              63              70             70              84             112             126             131           160
Rens (9-24 0o0th,)                                        56              63              'O              84            126             126             140             140             154           168
Cull Owes                                                 49              56             63              70              77              84              84              84              98           112
Iee (9-24 001th1)                                         56              56              56             63              64              98             105             112             112           112
Wethers                                                   56              63              70             96             112             119             126             112             140           154
Ran L-lb                                                  -               -_               -_                           100             100             112             112             124           136
M-arh 20, 1970



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep CoperatiV4- .2,000-ha
--roenticn of Sales
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Project Year  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Before
Development    1            2           3           4            5           6           7           8          9-20
0
Wool Sales
\0
O°     Wool                  15,030      17,712      21,518       27,615      40,648      51,408      61,863      68,391       79,326      93,150
Skins                    232         232         208          206         212       215           190         208          224         243
Sub-total    15, 262      17,944      21,726      27,821      40,860       51,623      62,053      68,599      79,550       93,393
Sheep Sales
Rams                     882       4,264       2,520       4,200        2,590       1,680       2,240       2,520       2,800        3,360
Rams (9-24 months)     5,992       6,741       7,490       4,704       16,380      14,238      15,820      30,100      33,110       36,120
Ram Lambs                 -           -                        -       10,000      20,000      33,600      33,600      42,000       42,000
Cull Ewes              8,673       9,912      12,460       9,800       21,098      23,016      23,688      23,688      27,636       31,584
Cull 2 Tooth Ewes        336         336         728       2,772           -        9,310      17,850      27,216      27,216       27,216
Whethers 2 Tooth       6,272       6,272       8,260       17,640      17,584      15,351      17,892       2,520        2,800       3,080
Whethers               5J6oo        6s30o      7J000        9.800      11,200      11,900      12,600       12,600      14,000      15,400
Sub-total    27,755       33,825      389458      48,916       78,852      95,495     123,690     132,244      149,562     158,760
TOTAL SAIE               43,017      51,769      60,184      76,737      119,712     147,118     185,743     20o,843      229,112     252,153
I3CREKENTAL SALES             -       8,772      17,167       33,720      76,695     104,101     142,726     157,826      186,095     209,136
CD
w



BOLIVTA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Cooperative - 2.000 ha
Projection of pOerating Costs
o                                                         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   Project Y e a r - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
o                                          Before
ITEM                             Development       1           2            3           4           5            6           7           8           9.20
Adidnistration                       1,200       4,800       4,800        4,800       4,800       4,800        6,ooo       6,000       6,000        6,000
'IO    Labor                               24,000       24,000      24,000      26,000       28,000      30,000      34,000       35,000      35,000      35,000
o      Maintenance:
Tools & Equipment 10%                800       1,700       2,300       2,300        2,300       2,300        2,300       2,300       2,300        2,300
Buildings          5%                -           750         750          750         750         750          750         750         750          750
Water Facilities   5%                100         550       1,150        1,150       1,150        1,150       1,150       1,150       1,150        1,150
Yards              5%                -            75         150          150         150         150          150         150         150          150
Shearing Plant    10%                -           720       1,440       1,440        1,440       1,440        1,440       1,440       1,440        1,440
Machinery         10%              3,000       3,700       9,500        9,500       9,500       9,500        9,500       9,500       9,500        9,500
Veterinary ExpensesS/                4,330       6,600       6,830        7,430      10,300      10,570       10,680      15,020      15,020       15,020
Shearing Expeases                      -           720         720          720         800         800          840         880         920          929
Dipping B$0.15 per head                650         660         680          740         770         790          800         810          810         810
Salt & Minerals B$0.20 per head        870         880         910          990       1,030       1,060        1,070       1,070       1,070        1,070
Pasture Maintenance                    _     -           -                  -           -           -          5,000      10,000      15,000       17,500
Taxation 2/                          2,280       2,460       2,480        2,490       3,370       4,090        4,680       4,900       4,900        4,900
Sundries t10%)                      3.720        4,760       5,570        5,850       6,440       6,740        7.840       8.900       9 400        9,650
TOTAL                          4o,950       52,375      61,280      64,310       70,800      74,114       86,200      97,870     103,410     106,160
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS                 11,420      20,330      23,360       29,850      33,180      45,250       56,920      62,460      65,210
1/ B$1.0 before development, B$1.5 in Years 1-3, B$2.0 in Years 4-6, B$3.0 from Year 7
2/  B$4 per head slaughtered plus B$5 per family per year



BOLII
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PRhJWT
Development of a 2,000 Ha Sheep Cooperative
Financial Projections
Project Years
CATE30RY                                   Before
Development      1         2        3        4        5        6         7        8         9       10       11        12       13-20
Pesos  '000
o        CASH INFLOW
Total  Sales                               43.1           51.7     60.2      76.7    119.8    147.1    185.8    200.8    229.2    252.2    252.2    252.2    252.2         252.2
BAB Long-Term Loan                           -           202.4    101.2      29.0       -       -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -          -
BAB Sbort-Term Loan 1/                       _            13.0     45.0      75.0     72.0     65.0     30.0       -        -         -        -        -         -
Cooperatives Contribution                    -            27.6      13.8      4.0       -       -
Sub-Total                       43.1           294.7    220.2   184.7    191.8    212.1    215.8    200.8    229.2    252.2    252.2    252.2    252.2           252.2
CASH OUTFLDW
Investment                                   -           230.0    115.0      33.0      -        -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -          -
Operating Expenses                         36.9           48.4      57.3    60.3      66.8    70.1       82.2     92.9     98.4    101.2    101.2    101.2    101.2        101.2
Sub-Total                       36.9           278.4    172.3      93.3     66.8    70.1      82.2      92.9    96.4    101.2    101.2    101.2    101.2         101.2
CASH BtLANCE (Before Debt Service)          6.2           16.3     47.9      91.4    125.0    142.0    133.6    107.9    130.8    151.0    151.0    151.0    151.0         151.0
DEBT SERVICE
Interest on Long-Term Loan (12%)                          13.8      30.4     38.2     39.9    38.9       36.9     33.9     29.9      24.9     18.9      11.9      3.9        -
Long-Term Loan Hepayment/                                  -        -        -        -        16.6     16.6     33.3      33.3     49.9      49.9     66.5     66.5         -
Interest on Short-Term Loan (12%)                           .8       3.6      7.2      8.9       8.2      5.7      1.8       -        -        -         -        -           -
Short-Term Loan Repayment                                   -       13.0     45.0     75.0     72.0      65.o     30.0       -        -        -         -        -           -
Sub-Total                                       14.6     47.0    90.4    123.8   135.7    1214.2        99.9     63.2     74.8      68.8     78.4      70.4
CASH BALANCE (After Debt Service)           6.2            1,7       0.9      1.0      1.2      6.3       9.4      8,     67.6       76.2     82.2      72.6     80.6      151.0
INCRDIDITAL CASH BALANCE (Annual)           -              (4.5)    (5.3)    (5-2)    (5.0)      0.1      3.2      2.7      61.4     70.0    76.0       66.4     74.4      144.8
INCRldENTAL FLOCK VALE                                     21b.0    29.0     50.9     32.5    33.5       35.6     28.3      24.3     40.6     34.7       -        -           -
TOTAL ANNUAL INCREMETAL BALANCE                            19.5     23.7     45.7     27.5      33.6     38.8     31.0      85.7    110.6    110.7      66.4     74.4       144.8
NOTE: 1/  BAB to cover short-term  deficits in first three years.  Cooperatives will not be able to find short-term funds, as well as their contribution to development, as they
have limited resources.
2/ Based on a graduating scale of repayments.
IZ 






BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Sub-Cooperative - 400 ha
Projection of Investment Costs
Investment Phasing
Investment                               Unit   Average Cost       - - -by Years- - -
Category                  Average       Cost     Per Ranch           Cost      Cost        Total Cost for 100 Farms
o                               Units/Ranch    - - - -Pesos - - - -          - -Pesos - - -        '000 Pesos       US$'000
'°  Pasture Improvement  (ha)       150
j
0
Contract Ploughing
and Seeding                              250      37,500            18,750    18,750
Seed                                        90      13,500             6,750     6,750
Labor                                       40       60ooo             3,000     3 000
Water Supplies  35iO  57,000  28,500    20 500     5,700             475
Water Supplies
Wells               (No)         2       3,000        6,000            3,000      3,000          600              50
Sheep Yards: Dips    (No)          1       3,000       3,000             3,000        -            300              25
Tools and Equipment  (Sets)        1       5,000        5,ooo            5,000        -            500              42
Veterinary Equipment (Sets)        -         -         2,000             2,000        -            200              17
Implements           (Sets)        -         _         3,000             3,000        -            300              25
Stock Purchases-/
Breeding Rams       (No)         8       1,200        9,600            9,600        -            960              80
Breeding Ewes       (No)        30         300        9,000            9,000        -            900              75
Contingencies-/                                         9.400            6,900      2,500          940              78
Total                                           104,000            70,000    34,000        10, oo             867
/ Imported from neighboring countries.
2/ Estimated at approximately 10%.
& |
0 m4
HJ mn



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DOEVEWOP1T PROJECT
Sheep Sub-Cooperative - 1400 ha
Flock DeveloDment Projections
Before          - - -                  …roject Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development         1             2             3             4             5              6              7              8              9             10-20
Flock Composition
rv   Rams                                     2           15             15            20           20             20            20              20             20             20             20
-          Breeding Ewes                               5440          531           531           532           548           551            547            549            550            550            550
X-        Lambs                                       324           324           335           346           367           386            410            410            410            410             410
2-Tooth Ewes (9-24 months)                 130           133           133           140           147           157            168            180            185            185             185
2-Tooth Wethers                             30            33            82           101           113           119            111            111            113            113             113
2-Tooth Rams                               100           100            52            40            34            39             57             69             72             72              72
Cull Ewes                                   27            68            60            59            57            75             90            101            103            109             109
Total                                    1,153         1,204         1,208         1,238         1,286         1,347          1,403          1,440          1,453          1,459          1,459
Deaths
Rams                                         -            -               2             2            2             2              2               2              2              2              2
Breeding Zwes                               81            76            53            53            48            49             50             44             44              44             44
Lambs                                       64            58            58            54            52            52             50             50             40             40              40
2-Tooth Ewes                                20            19            13            13            12            13             14             13             14              14             14
2-Tooth Wethers                               5            5             3             8             8            11             10              8               9              9              9
2-Tooth Rams                                15            14            10             5             4             3              4              5               5              5              5
Cull Ewes                                    4             4             7             6             5             5              7              7              8               8              8
Total                                       189          176           146           141           131           135            137            129             122            122            122
Sales
Rams                                         -            -                            1             6             4              4              4               4              4              4
Rams (9-24 months)                           85           81             87           39            28            25             29              46             58             61             61
Cull Ewes                                   23            23            61            54            54            52             68             83             93              95            101
Ewes (9-24 months)                            2            6             7             7             7             7              7               8            18              18             18
Wethers (9-24 months)                        25            25            30           74            93           102            109            103             102            104            104
Total                                      135           135           185           175           188           190            217            244            275             282            288
Purchases
Rams                                                        8           -
Ewes                                                      30            -             -             -
Technical Coefficients
Lanbing         %                           60            60            63            65            67            70             75              75             75             75             75
Adult Deaths   %                            15            14            10            10             9             9              9               8              8              8              8
Lamb Deaths    %                             20           18            18            16            15            14             13              12             10             10             10
% Rams to Ewes %                             -             3              3            4             4             4              4               4              4              4
Culling         %
Ewes                       10            15            12            12            12            14             16             18             18              20             20
2-Tooth Ewes                2             5             5             5             5             5              5              5             10             10              10
Stocking Rate Sheep Units                   550          590           620           680           700           720            750             800            850            900            900
Carrying Capacity                          600           600           650           750           800           800            850            900            900             900            900
Extraction Rate   %                          12           11            15             14           1,"           14             15              17             19             19             20
Value of the Flock (pesos)              42,469        50,316        55,937        81,788        85,816        93,418        100,525        110,856        113,015         124,607        134,113



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVfSTUCK DEVELOPMTMT PROJECT
Sheep Sub-Cooratives - 400 ha
S s  roJec tion
Before       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    Project  Y e a r   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Development     1           2            3           4           5            6           7            8           9           lo-po
Wool Sales (Pesos)                                                                               Pesos  ---------------------------.-----------------------------------
Wool                              3,745       4,420        5,425       6,675       8,800       11,520      14,365       16,660      19,710      21,690       23,580
H'        Skins                                 92          91          71           71          72          75           78          85           90          93           93
Sheep Sales (Pesos)
Rams                                           -            -             70         420          280         448          504         560         616          672
Rams (9-24 months)                4,760       5,103       6,090        3,276       4,600       6,ooo        7,250      11,500       14,500      15,250       15,250
Cull Ewes                         1,127       1,288       3,843        3,780       4,158       4,002        5,236       6,972        7,812       9,310       11,312
Ewes (9-24 months)                  112         336         441          588         875          945         945       1,080        2,250       2,250        2,250
Wethers (9-24 months)             1,400       1,575        1,720       7.252      10,416      12,138       13,734       12.978      12,852     114,560       114.560
Sub-total                    7,99        o,302      1,14         14,960      20,469      23,365       27,613      33,034       37,974      41,906       44,0444
Total                       11,236      12,813      17,620       21,712      29,341      34,960      142,056      49,779       57,774      63,769      67,717
Coefficients
Wool (kg)
Yields per head (Adult)              .75         .8          .9          1.0         1.2         1.5          1.7         1.9          2.1         2.3          2.5
Yields per head (Lambs)           -          -           -                            .4          .5           .6           .7          .7           .7          .7
Total Wool Production             624         680         775          890       1,100       1,440        1,690       1,960        2,190       2,410       2,620
Price per kg                       6.o          6.5         7.0          7.5         8.0         8.0          8.5         8.5          9.0         9.0          9.0
Sheep Carcass Weight (kg)
Rams                                9           9           9           10          10           10          16          18           20          22           24
Rams (9-24 months)                  8           9          10           12          18          18           20          20           22          24           24
Cull Ewes                           7           8           9           10          11          11           11          12           12          14          16
Ewes (9-24 months)                  8           8           9           12          14          15           16          16           16          16          16
Wethers                             8           9           10          14          16           17          18           18          18          20           22
Value Per Sheep (Pesos)
Rams                                63           63          63           70          70          70          112         126          140         154         168
Rams (9-24 months)                   56          63           70          814        200          240         250         250          250         250          250
Cull Ewes                           49           56          63           70          77          77           77          84           84          98         112
Ewes (9-24 months)                   56          56          63           84         125         125          125         125          125         125         125
Wethers                              56          63           70          98         112          119         126          126         126         140          140
'-, 



BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sheep Sub-Cooperative 400 ha
Projection of Operating Expenses
Before         - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Project Year  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -
o                             _        Development    1           2          3          4           5          6          7          8          9         12-.20
o     Expenses-                                              --_-----  Pesos  -----------------------------------------------------
H      Managenrnt                            -          -          -          -          -          -       1,000       2,000      4,000      4,000       4,000
Labor                             5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000      6,000      6,000       6,000      8,000     10,000     10,000     10,000
Maintenance
Tools & Equipment 10%              400        400        800      1,200      1,200      1,200       1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200      1,200
Buildings          5%              250        250        300        400        400        400         400        400        400        400         400
Water Facilities   5%              200        200        400        800         800        800        800        800        800        800         800
Yards              5%              100        100        200        300        300        300         300        300        300        300         300
Shearing                            180        180        240        400        400        440         560        700        700        700         700
Veterinary                          300        600        940      1,250      1,850       2,250      2,800      2,900      2,900      2,900       2,900
Dipping   B$0.15 per head           180        180        180        200         200        210        220        230        230         230        230
Salt & Minerals B$0.20 per head     200        200        200        250        300         350        400        400        400        400         400
Pasture Maintenance                  -          -          -          -           -          -       2,000      4,000      7,500      7,500       7,500
Taxation 1/                         718        714        854        780        700        700         820        860        920        920         920
Sundries T10%)                      752        786        906      1,050      1,210      1,260       1,650      2,180      2,950      2,950       2,950
Total                               8,280      8,610     10,020     11,630     13,360     13,910      18,150     23,970     32,300     32,300      32,300
B$4 pr sheep slaughead plus tlmnd tax B$5 per family per year.
CD 



BOLIVTA
THIRD LIVUBTOCK IZV P;ODI PROJEOT
IEVlBPLOPME OF A 40D HA SHOEP SUB-ODOPHEATIVE
FTIHA.ILL PRO.CTIONB
s  Bei'ore                                    --                     ProJect Year-
CATEGORY                               DWelopjit   1         2        3        4       5        6        7        8        9       10       12       12       13-20
o~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o
CASH INFWW
Total Sales                            11.2         12.8    17.6    21.7    29.3    34.9    42.0          49.8   57.8    63.8    67.7    67.7    67.7            67.7
BAB Long-Term Loan                      -           61.6    29.9       -        -        -       -         -       -        -        -        -        -          -
bB Swt-Term Loan 1 /                                2.0      7.0    11.0       8.0     4.0      -         _       _        _        _        _        _
Sub-Cooperative Contribution            _            8.4      4.1      -        -        -        - _              - _      _        _        _        _
Sub-Total                        11.2         8h.8    58.6    32.7    37.3    38.9    42.0          49.8   57.8    63.8    67.7    67.7    67.7            67.7
CASH OuTnOd
Invefftment                             -70.0    34.0                  -        -        -       -         -       -        -        -        -        -          -
Operating Epennes                       8.3         10.1    12.0    12.9    13.3    13.9    18.1          24.0   32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3            32.3
Sub-Total                         8.3         80.1    46.o    12.9    13.3    13.9    18.1          24.0   32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3    32.3            32.3
CASH BRLA    (Bfore Dsbt Service)       2.9          4.7    12.6    19.8    24.0    25.0    23.9          25.8   25.5    31.5    35.4    35.4    35.4            35.4
D1EE SUBVICE!
interest on BAB Long-Term Loan (12%)    -            3.7      9.2    11.0    11.0    10.7    10.2          9.3    8.2       6.9      5.2      3,3      1,1        -
Interwet on BAB Short-Term Loan  (12%)  -            0.1      o.5      1.1      1.1      0.7     0.2       -       -        -        -        -        -          -
Long-rm Loan Repaynt  /-                                               -        -        4.6      4.6       9.1    9.2    13.7    13.7    18.3    18.3            -
Short-Term Lon Repapment                _                     2.0      j.0    11.0       8.0      4.0       -       -        -       -        -        -          -
CASH BALUNCE  (After Debt Servioe)      -            0.9      0.9      0.7      0.9      1.0      4.9       7.4    8.1    10.9    16.5    13.8    16.0           35.4
INCRMETAL CASH BLAUNCE (Animal)         -            (2.0)   (2.0)   (2.2)   (2.0)   (1.9)    2.0          4U5     5.2      8.0    13.6    10.9    13.1          32.5
INCREMDAL FLOCK VALUE (Ann1)           -            7.8      7.6    13.8    140        7.6      7.1     10.3    6.2       7.6      9.5      -        -          -
TOTAL INCRUCNTAL BLACE (Anual)          -             5.8      5.6    11.6    12.0       5.7      9.1      14.8   11.3    15.6    23.1    10.9    13.1           32.5
NOTE, 1/ BAB to cover short-tore deficits in first 3 years as Sub-Cooperatives will not be able to supply more than their contribution to development.
2/ Beed on graduating scale of repaymento.






BOLIVIA
THMRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Administration and Technical Services Budget
(Beef Ranch and Sheep Property Development Sub-Project)
- -~~Y e a r s - - - - - - - - -
1         2          3         4          5             - -   -Total-                 Foreign Exchange Canponent
ITEMS                                               '000 Pesos                              '000 Pesos    -OOO US$             '000 US$          %
M,   OPERATING EXPENSES
0
Project Director                          300       300        300       300        300             1,500          125                 125           100
Project Director: TravelY/                 24        24         24        24         24               120           10                  10           100
°      Pasture Specialist         1/             200        250       250        250       250             1,200           100                100            100
Pasture Specialists Travel-                24        24         24        24         24               120           10                  10           100
Regional Project Director(Trinidad)        48        48         48        48         48               240            20                 -
Regional Project Director(Oruro)           48        48         48        48         48               240            20                 -
Technicians & Veterinarians:
Trinidad  8                   180       240        260        260       260             1,200           100
Oruro     6                    60       120        180        200       200               760            64                 -
Pilot                                      24        24         24        24         24               120           10                  -              _
Per Diem Allowances                        70       100        112       112        112               506           42                  -
Office Expenses                             8        10         10        10         10                48            4                  -
Transportation Expenses                    79        97        108       108        108               500           42                  -
Training Grants                            k 48      48         48        48         48               240            20                 20            100
Administrative Personnel - La Paz          18        32         32        32         32               146            38                 -
Administrative Personnel - Trinidad        90        90         92        94         96               462            15
Administrative Personnel - Oruro           16        40         40         42        42               180            10
Total Operating Expenses       1,237      1.495     1.600      1,624     1,b2b             7,52            632                265            4.
CAPITAL EXPENSES
Vehicles                                  144        72         -         -          -                216            18                 18            100
Office Equipment                           20         8          8        -          -                 36             3                  2             67
Office Furniture                           12         8          4        -          -                 24             2
Veterinazy Equipment                       36        -          -         -          -                 36                                3            100
Total Capital Expenses           212         88        12         -         -                312            2                  23             88.5
Total                          1,449      1,583     1,612      1,624     1,626             7,894           656                288                 5 
Less Costs Shared with Credit 107-BO        288       288         -         -          -                576            48                 27             40
TOTAL COSTS TO THIRD PROJECT              1,161     1,295      1,612     1,624      1,626             7,318           6.08               261             42.9
/ Haoe Leave every 2 years
2/ Overseas travel of sheep and cattle technicians.
EK






B O L I V I A
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                                                              PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
H                                                                                                LIVESTOCK PROJECT ACCOUNT (CENTRAL BANK)
THIRD LIVESTOCK CREDIT
Project Years ...........  1            2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9           10          11          12           13          14          15          16
…$~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ b Million.-_______
C A S H I N F L O W
Credit from IDA for:
a)   Ranch   Development Loaos                  12.99      20.28      19.25       7.57       1.94        --        --         --          --          --          __          __           __          __          __          __
b)   Ranch   Short-term Loans                    3.50       3.50       1.75       __         --          _-         __        --          __          __          __          __           -_          __          __           __
c)   Slaughter House Loans 1/                    __         2.00       2.00       1.20       -_
d)   Technical Services                          0.79       0.72       0.65       0.65       0.65        --         --        --          --          --          --          --           __          __          __           __
e)   Study of Meat Marketing 2/                  1.20       --         --         --          _         --         --         --         --           --          --          __          __           __          __          __
Sub-total .......,,..  18.48               26.50      23.65       9,42       2.59       -          -          -          -           -           - _                      -           -           - __
Loan Repayments from BA8                         --         --         --         -- -R                  8.84       8.84       8.84       8.84        8.84        8.84        8.84        8.84         8.84        8.84         8.84
Interest Payments from bAB (71X%)3/               .06         .24       .43         .56        .61       6.78      6.12       5.47       4.83         4.17        3.52        2.88        2.24         1.60         .96          .32
Total .18.54                               26.74      24.08       9.98       3.20      15.62      14.96      14.31      13.67       13.01       12.36        11.72       11.08       10.44         9.80        9.16
C A S O U u T F L O W
Loans to BAB for:
a)   Ranch Development Loans                    12.99      20.28      19.25       7.57       1.94       --         --         --          __          __          __          __           __          __          __           __
b)   Ranch Short-term Loans                      3.50       3.50       1.75        --        --          --         --         --         --          __          __           -_          __          -_          __           __
c)   Slaughter Houses                            --         2.00        2.00       1.20       __         __         __         __         __          __          __           __          __          __          __           __
d)   Technical Services                          0.79       0.72       0.65        0.65      0.65        --         --         --         --          --          --           --          __          --          --           --
Technical Study of Meat Marketing                1.20       --         --          --        --          __         __         __         __          __          -_           __          __          -_           _           -_
Payment of IDA Service Charge (3/4 of 1%)    0.06           0.24       0.43       0.56       0.61        0.63       0.63       0.63       0.63        0.63        0.62         0.62        0.61        0.61        0.60         0.59
Principal Repayment of IDA Credit                --         --         --         --         --          --         --        --          --          --          0.83         0.83        0.83        0.83        0.83         0.83
Total ... .           .. .  18.54          26.74      24.08       9.98       3.20       0.63       0.63       0.63       0.63        0.63         1.45        1.45        1.44         1.44        1.43        1.41
Annual Surplus to Government                      --        __         __          __         -_        14.99      14.33      13.68      13.04       12.38       10.91        10.27        9.64        9.00         8.37        7.75
Cumslative Surplus to Government                 --         -_         __          -_        --         14.99      29.32      43.00      56.04       68.42       79.33        89.60       99.24      108.24      116.61       124.36
1/   Disbursement and other details to be determined by meat marketing consultants.
Estimates are based on similar terms and conditions to other loans.
2/   Study by foreign consultants.
3/   In years 1 to 5, 3/4 of 1% interest received.  Balance capitalized and added
to principal at end of year 5.






BO0L IV IA
p.                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTED SOURCE  AND APPLICATION OF PROJECT FUNDS
H                                                                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARCO AGRICOIA SE BOLIVIA
1          2          3          4          5           6          7           B          9          15           11           12          13           14          15           16
LONa,O fro Central Rank Project Account:
.)   R...   D-.p . t  /                                  12.99      20.28      19.25        7.57       1.94
a)   Ranh- Developmenth   - 2                                   3.50        3.50       1.75        -           -
h)   Shorgt-Tr  Ranc .e     ne                                              2.00       2.00       1.20         -
d)   For TechnIcal Ser-i..a.4                                   0.79       0.72        0.65       0.65       0.65
Sub-total..............                      17.28      26.50       23.65       9.42       2.59
Collections fro:
a)   Ranch Development Loan RePayments  /-                                  -           -                     1.24       2.97       5.36        6.99       9.38      11.01        13.40       15.05        10.74         4.22
h)   Ranh Short-ter  Loan Repayments-                                      4.67        9.96      13.83      15.40       03.82       8.40        2.37       0.60       --           --           --          --           --
c)   Sloughter Houoe Loam Repayments U                                     --          --         --         --          0.65       0.65        0.65       0.65       0.65         0.65        0.65         0.63         --
d)   Interest Rece:ipts on Long-teem Loans (12%)2'              --          2.00       5.16       8.16       9.42        9.32       8.82        8.07       7.06       0.86         4.40         2.70        1.10         0.25
) Int_eret R.ceipta on Short-tern Loansa (12%) ~/            0.28        0.88       1.43       1.76        1.87       1.45       0.76        0.24       0.04       ------                                              -
Sub-tota.1..............                      0.28       7.55       16.79      14.23      28.65       28.79      24.49       19.74      18.10      17.79        18.64       18.49        12.59         4.47
Total ................                       17.56      34.05       40.44      33.65      31.24       28.79      24.49       19.14      lR.lO      17.79        18.64       18.49        12.59         4.47
C ASE  O U TF LO0W
a) Masch Development Loann                                  18.70       26.29      25.30       9.86        2.50       --          --         --         -            --                       --
b)   Ranc h Short-ter  Loans                                    4.67        9.96      13.83      15.40       13.82       8.40        5.37       0.60       -           --                        --
r)   Slaughter Hoso.. Loano                                     -           2.00       2.00       1.20        --         --         --          --         -           --                        --
Sub-tota.1..............                     21.37      38.25       40.93      26.46      16.52        8.40       3.37       0.60        -           --                       --
Loan RepaymentS to Central Rank Project Arcoont9l!              --          --         --         --          --         8.84       8.84        8.84       8.84        8.84        8.84         8.84        8.84         8.84         8.84        8.84
Interet Payments to Central Bank Pr-jert Ac-&n12                  .06        .24        .43         .52        .56       6.7R       6.12        5.47       4.83        4.17        3.52         2.88        2.24         1.60          .96         .32
Technical Sevcs1.16                                                         1.50       1.61       1.62        1.62       0.80       0.60        0.40       0.35        0.30        0.50         0.25        0.20         0.10        --           --
Adsisistration Conts BAB 11/                                    0.16        0.56       1.06        1.57       1.47       1.41        1.28       1.12       0.96        0.77        0.63         0.37        0.15         0.08         0._06       0.03
Sub-total ..............                      1.38        2.10       3.10       3.31        3.67      17.83      16.84       15.83      14.98      14.08        13.29        12.34       11.43        10.62        9.86         9.29
Tota.1  ...............                      22.75      40.35       44.03      29.97       19.99      26.23      20.21       16.43      14.98       14.08       13.29        12.34       11.45        10.62         9.86        9.-1-9
AnnualI Cash Surplus or (Defiit)                                (5.19)     (6.30)     (3.59)      3.68       11.25       2.54        4.28       3.31        5.12       3.71        5.35         6.15         1.16       (6.15)       (9.86)      (9. 19)
Interna  on Cost  Surplus (Deficit)(77.) 12/                   (0.18)      (0.59)     (0.98)     (1.05)      (0.62)     (0.18)      0.04        0.32       0.56        0.84        1.20         1.70         2.07        2.05         1.61        1.08
Annual lank OSurplus or Deficit after lotetont                  (5.57)     (6.89)     (4.57)       2.33      10.63       2.36        4.32       3.63        3.68       4.55         6.55        7.85         3.25       (4.10)       (8.25        (9. 11)
Osnaltiv-  Cash S-rplun or (DefOsit) after Interet             (5.37)    (12.26)    (16.83)    (14.50)       (3.87)     (1.51)       2.81       6.44      10.12       14.67       21.22        29.07       52.30        28.20        19.05       10.84
I/  78% of osb-Soano to cattle and sheep rancher.                                                                      6/  Twelv-yea  loans, 4-years grace.  8 equal repayments of principal.
2/  57% of short-tern loon funds                                                                                       7/  Both for  anchen and nlasgherhooa....
-3/  100% of loans                                                                                                     61  Interet calcolared on  v-rge of loan  ... m        tnc  outstanding during yea.
4/  Foregn o.Change componen.t                                                                                         9/  lintcen-year loan; 5-yearn grac., 11 equal annual installomot,
5/  ToeBy-year loan.a, 4-ynar  grace on Principol; RePayment ochodule:  5%; 5%, 10%; 10%., 15%;                       10/  Int-ret at 7Vl.  In year  1-5, 3/4 of 1% ist-reo  paid Co cover IDA charges
15%, 20%; and 20. of princIpal                                                                                       Balance capitalioed and added to principal.
II/  1-1/2% of ootstandinR loans to covot gener al administrative costs.
12/  Net interest rate of 7% allowd for smiler type lending.






BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
PROJECTED SOURCES ASD APPLICATION OF FUIDS 1971-1976i/
BANCO AGRICOLA DE BOLIVIA
__-_-------__-------_------ For Year Ending June 30th -------------_______---_____
1971            1972             1973             1974             1975            1976
--_---------- ----- -- ---------------- -----$b '000- --------------------_-- ---------------------
CASH INFLOW
Livestock Loans and Credits:
a)  IDA - Credits 107-BO and 171-BO_/                      18,500             -                -                        -                -
b)  IDA - Third Livestpoqk Crediti/                          -              17,280           26,500           23,650           9,420            2,590
c)  IDB Livestock LoanJi/                                    -               9,540          16,760           19,360           13,840             -
d)  IDB Livestock Loan  (Government Contrlbution)2/          -                 950            1,680            1,940           1,380             -
e)  IDA Livestock Project Revolving Fund§/                   -               1,400            1,4oo           2,500            2,500            2,500
Collections from:
a)  Repayments IDA Livestock Projects                        -                -                 300            1,200           2,050            3,700
b)  Repayments Non Livestock Portfolio                     40,000           42,ooo           44,000          45,000           46,ooo           46,ooo
c)  Interest Receipts IDA Project Sub-loans 12$             4,300            6,800            9,400          13,300           16,800           18,500
d)  Interest Receipts IDB Project Sub-loans 12%              -                -               1,400            3,600           5,600            7,200
e)  Interest Receipts Non Livestock Portfolio-/            15,000           15,000           15,000          15,000           15,000           15,000
Other Income                                                  520              500              500             500              500              500
Total                              78,320           93470          116,94050                         113,090           95,990
CASH OUTFLOW
Livestock Sub-loans under
a)  IDA - Credits 107-BO and 171- 0                        21,000             -                -                -               -
b)  IDA - Third Livestpc,k Credit 3                          -              21,870           33,580           30,970          12,630              920
c)  IDB Livestock Loar/                                      _              11,650           18,380           18,800          15,120             -
Sub-loans Non Livestock Portfoliol/                        40,000           42,oo0           44,000           45,000          46,ooo           46,000
Payments
a) Loan Repayments to Government under IDA Projects          -                -                -               1,200           1,200            1,200
b) Interest Payments to Government (IDA Projects)           1,000            1,680            1,840            2,030           2,160            2,190
c) Interest Payments (TDB Project)                           -                 200              720            1,440           1,700            2,380
d) Interest on Non Livestock Portfolio                      3,800            3,900            4,100            4,400           4,600            4,700
General and Operating Expenses                                12,100           13,000           14,100           15,600           17,200          19,000
Purchase of Assets, Reserves, etc.                             1,200            1,400            1 600            2,000            2,4oo           2,800
Total                              79,100           95,700         T     -t                          1023,400          79,190
Annual Surplus (Deficit)}/                                       (780)         (2,230)          (1,380)           4,610           10,080          16,800
j  This projection is based on the assumption made by BAD that its borrowings, apart from the proposed livestock projects, will remain constant
over this period.  (BAB has manvy i)rogramsibut cornsiders that the value of sub-loans to borrowers, other than livestockrnhr,   ilrmi
over  his  erio.   (RR ha  man  mror5msbut cnsidrs tat te vaue o  subloan  tbrows,thrhnlieock ranchers, will remain
about the same).   BAB will be able to meet repayments due on external loans by drawings on current lines of credit.
Balance remaining at June 30, 1970 and expected to be fully drawn by about June 1971.
3/  From 3overnment US$6.8 million at 7-1l41 interest.   During first 5 years only 3/4 of 1$ paid - balance capitalized and repaid during years 6 to 16
4/  Based on IDB US$5 million - interest 4$, 5 years grace, 20 year repayment.
5/ 10$ of IDB Loan Funds
i/ Project 107-BO and 171-BO
7/ Assumed by BAB that non livestock lending total will be constant, but collections will show improvement.   Interest rate 12% per annum.
Small deficits could be covered by slight increase in other borrowings, etc.
May 11, 1971



ANNEX 10
B O L I V I A
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return - Cattle and Sheep Property Models
1/
Project Years .....1          2        3         4        5        6         7        8        9       10-20      20
…---------------------------------------   ('000   Pesos)    --------…--------------------------------
BEEF CATTLE RANCH
Benefits
Incremental Sales               (9.7)    35.4      41.6     50.0     64.8      92.9    123.9    149.4    172.9    186.4    495.4
Costs
Investment Costs               168.0     54.0      48.0       --       --        --       --        --       --       --        --
Incremental Operating Costs    27.4      34.0      45.4     64.6     40.2      42.7     55.5     55.0      57.0     57.0        -_
Total ............ 195.4       88.0     93.4      64.6     40.2     42.7      55.5     55.0      57.0     57.0       -_
Net Cash Flow                 (205.1)   (52.6)   (51.8)   (14.6)   (24.6)    50.2       68.4      94.4    115.9    129.4    495.4
Rate of Return: 18%
SHEEP COOPERATIVE
Benefits
Incremental Sales                8.8     17.2      33.7     76.7   104.1    142.7   157.8    186.1    209.1    209.1    331.0
Costs
Investment Costs               230.0    115.0      33.0       -        --        --       --        --       --        --       --
Incremental Operating Costs    11.4      20.3      23.4     29.9      33.2     45.3    56.9       62.5     65.2     65.2        __
Total ............  241.4    135.3      56.4      29.9     33.2     45.3    56.9       62.5      65.2     65.2        __
Net Cash Flow                 (232.6)  (118.1)   (22.7)    46.8       70.9     97.4    100.9    123.6    143-9    143.9         __
Rate of Return:  20%
SHEEP SUB-COOPERATIVE
Benefits
Incremental Sales                1.6      6.4      10.5     18.1     23.7      30.8     38.5      46.5     52.5      56.5     87.0
Costs
Investment Costs                70.0     34.0        --       -         --       --       --        --       --        --       --
Incremental Operating Costs      1.8      3.7       4.6      5.1      5.6       9.9     15.7      24.0     24.0     24.0        __
Total ........... 8. n.s       37.7      4.6       5.1      5.6      9.9      15.7     24.0      24.0     24.0        __
Net Cash Flow                  (70.2)   (31-3)      5.9     13.0     18.1      20.9     22.8      22.5     28.5      32.5       __
Rate of Return:  18%
1/ Incremental Herd Value.
April 22, 1970



BOLziVA
THRD2 LIVESTOCK DE7ELOPIENT PROJECT
Isersietel re-te 'nd Re- ite
F------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Y..,-Year of  -evelop-nt-
0                                                               1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9         10        11         12         13         i14      1S          16       17-19       20 1
Benefits
Increontal Sales:
Beef Ranches                                    (966)       4508      8186      10939     13564      17272      24923     31979      38428     43407      45936      46613      46613     46613      46613      46613     46613       170463
Sheep CGoperltives & Ranches                      88         364       891       i8e2      3472       5251      6800       8185       9123     10213      10873     10873      10873      10873      10873     10873      10873       - 20085
Sheep Sub-COeperativ-s                            32         191       528       1036      1617       2289       2953      3706       4454      5091       5487       5643      5643       5643       56143     5643       56143       14793
(846)      5063      9607      13827      18583     24812      34676     43870      52005      58711     62296      63129      63129     63129      63129      63129     63129       213341
Casts
Ieecrsenta. Investment
Boef Ranches                                   16800       22200     18600       7500       2400
Sheep Cooperatives & Ranchea                    2300        6210      7460       3026       660
Shr-ep Sub-Cooperatives                         1400        3480      4160       1360        -
lncre_ntal Operating Costs
Beef Reaches                                    2736        6134      9303      12690      12748     11520      11827     13377      13974      14157     14260      14260      1426o     14260      1426o      14260     14260      1 14260
Sheep Cooperatives & Ranches                     114         454       909       1220       1456      1780       2229      2782       3164       3335      3390       3390       3390       3390      3390       3390       3390         3390
Sheep Sab-Cooperatives                             7          48       150        306        450       625        934      1503       2069       2402      2402       2402       2402       2402      2402       2402       2402        2402
Technical Services                                1161        1295       i612      1624       1626        900       800        570        1 400     300        300       300        250        200        -         -          -           -
Adhin ist.-ative Costs                             16o         56o      1010       1322       1390       1330      1190       13140      932        730        550       340        140         30         37        30        -           -
24678      40381      43204     29046      20730      16155     16980      19202      20507     20924      20902     20692      20442      20282      20082     20082      20052        20052
(25524)    (35318)   (33597)   (15219)    (2147)        8657     17696       24668    31498      37787      413914    42437      42687      42847      43047     43047      43077       193289
Sncrseslntal Bevende te Government -                  450       1104      1650       1173        881        904      1257        1627     1997       2231       2316      2316       2316       2316       2316      2316       2316         2316
Net Flow to ths Econonc                           (25074)    (34214)   (31947)   (14046)    (1266)         9561     18953       26295    33495      40018      43530      44753    145003      45163      45363     45363      45393       195605
1/ Includes inoresental raise of heeds end flecks.                                                                   Ewic Rat. of Rtun 185
2/ increased r-vee  to Go-vernent, llctcipalities & Universlty of Beni.






BOLIVIA
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS
2-                                                                                                         /
'6EAS'  "O//                                                B        S          *> "'
(  W- 7  X      \    ~~~~~COCHABAMBA    .A>\.
N T A  C R U IL F N T F A L I  JK A I  J  N E  \OSE
< ~ ~~~ .\  t                 IA     ,*       *  /v
t L OX '  .'' *< .......... ,|_HI  0 
U     R
MAY 1971                                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BR D-2897RI



