CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 261 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 261 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        June 25,   1971, between the REPUBLIC OF
BOLIVIA    (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in
financing the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts of the Project will be carried out by Banco Agricola de Bolivia
(hereinafter called BAB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower shall relend to BAB an amount of up to six million seven
hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000) equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and BAB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Section 5.01 thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and BAB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BAB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "ranch development plan" means a proposal for investing in fencing,
stock handling and watering facilities, essential ranch construction, stock and
pasture management equipment and tools, selected pasture establishment and
limited numbers of breeding cattle, sheep or other related on-ranch items or any
combination thereof, and for the provision of working capital and technical services
in connection therewith;
(d)   "Project Director" means the livestock expert referred to in Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(e)   "Second Livestock Credit" means the agreement between the Borrower
and the Association (Credit 171 BO) dated January 13, 1970; and
(f)   "Project Commission " means the commission established pursuant to
Resolucion Suprema No. 155226 of the Borrower dated December 3, 1970.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million eight hundred thousand
dollars ($6,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of (i) expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than


﻿5
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories,
(ii) Part D of the Project without the prior approval of the Association to permit
withdrawals in respect thereof, and (iii) any payment under a loan granted by
BAB unless the Project Director recommends the ranch development plan for which
such loan is requested and, where the amount of any such loan, or the aggregate
of any such loans to an individual rancher, is in excess of or equivalent to one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), unless the relevant plan has also been
approved by the Association.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15   and  November 15   commencing November 15, 1981, and      ending
May 15, 2021, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 1991, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
Part C of the Project and shall cause BAB to carry out Parts A, B and D of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, administrative, economic and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend up to six million seven hundred thousand
dollars equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit to BAB under a subsidiary


﻿6
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and BAB under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable BAB to perform all of
its obligations under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
(e)   The operating policies and procedures for carrying out Parts A, B and
D of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,
the Association and BAB.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in improving cattle
slaughtering and meat marketing operations in its territories, the Borrower shall
forthwith employ qualified and experienced consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and, unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, submit the report of said consultants to the
Association within twelve months from the Effective Date.
(b)   On a date not later than nine months after the date of said submission
of the report, and with due regard to the recommendations included therein, the
Borrower shall adopt a beef price policy acceptable to the Association establishing
appropriate price differentials between different grades and qualities of meat.
Section 3.03. Prior to the approval of any withdrawals in respect of Part
D of the Project, the Borrower shall submit to the Association a plan acceptable
to the Association for the establishment of a meat inspection service and a meat
grading system of a standard satisfactory to the Association and a timetable for
the implementation thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the
goods required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank


﻿7
Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance
with such other procedures supplementary thereto as shall be agreed between the
Association and the Borrower, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of all goods
and services required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes to cause to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods required for Part D of the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and contract documents
for Part D of the Project, and any material modifications or amplifications thereof,
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall or shall cause BAB to: (i) maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in t1he Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all measures within its powers to ensure
the provision of air transport facilities adequate for the needs of the Project,
including without limitation, the establishment and maintenance of air freight tariffs
at a level adequate to ensure a reasonable profit for efficient air transport operators
carrying livestock or livestock produce to domestic and foreign markets.


﻿8
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall promptly issue all permits and lcenses that
are necessary for the importation of any goods, including vaccines not available
in Bolivia, required for the carrying out of the Project or the maintenance of the
benefits to be derived therefrom.
Section 4.03. The Borrower agrees that in the event the rate of increase
in the Borrower'si cost of living index exceeds eight per cent per annum, in any
six month period compared with the same six month period of the preceding year,
the Borrower will not permit BAB to make further loan commitments or permit
withdrawals under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in respect thereof until an
agreement with the Association has been reached on arrangements for indexing
to be applied in respect of such further loans.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, until the Closing Date, maintain the Project
Commission and take all action which may be required on its part in order to
enable the Project Commission to discharge its functions and responsibilities.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take reasonable measures to establish and
maintain in the areas referred to in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (i) ani effective
foot-and-mouth disease control program, and (ii) an effective procedure for prompt
clarification of land titles.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall not after meeting the condition set forth
in Section 8.01 (c) of this Agreement reintroduce any quantitative restrictions on
the export of beef from its territories except if such measures are temporary and
the Borrower demonstrates to the Association that they are imposed because of
emergency conditions.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by BAB of its obligations under the Project Agreement,
the administration, operations and financial condition of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and


﻿9
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance c, payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the
performance by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement or the performance by BAB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. Ti Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from ny taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance


﻿10
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of BAB under the Project Agreement and such default shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and BAB.
(b)   BAB shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by BAB or by others whereby
any of the property of BAB shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BAB or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   An event specified under Section 5.02 (a), (b) or (c) of the Second
Livestock Credit shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
BAB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and BAB, respectively, have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.


﻿11
(c)   That all quantitative restrictions on the export of beef from the
territories of the Borrower have been eliminated.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BAB, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of BAB in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and BAB, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower and BAB in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date September 15, 1971 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Project shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on the date on which the Subsidiary Loan Agreement terminates
in accordance with it terms, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas
La Paz
Bolivia


﻿12
Cable address:
Minfinanzas
La Paz
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Antonio Sanchez de Lozada
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each
category. This allocation is based on the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
items included in the Project.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                       Dollar Equivalent)
I.    Long-term loans for investment in
beef ranch development                              3,300,000
II.   Long-term loans for investment in
sheep ranch development                             1,500,000
Ill.  Short-term loans to beef and sheep
ranchers for incremental working
capital requirement                                   600,000
IV.  Technical services and equipment
for the provision thereof                             200,000
V.    Consulting services                                   100,000
VI.   Loans for slaughterhouse
construction and renovations                          400,000
VII. Unallocated                                           700,000
TOTAL                    6,800,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:


﻿14
(a)   expenditures for goods or parts thereof produced in, or services
supplied from, the territories of the Borrower in respect of Category IV;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   the equivalent of more than (i) seventy-eight per cent (78%) in respect
of any loan granted by BAB under Categories I and II of this Schedule 1, (ii)
fifty-seven per cent (57%) in respect of any loan granted by BAB under Category
III of this Schedule I and (iii) eighty-five per cent (85%) in respect of the cost
of services under Category V of this Schedule 1. With respect to Category VI
of this Schedule 1, amounts withdrawn may equal the equivalent of 100% of loans
granted by BAB. The percentages set forth in this subparagraph (c) may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association; and
(d)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the third stage of a livestock development program of the
Borrower. It consists of the following Parts:
Part A
Provision of loans to: (i) beef cattle ranchers in the Beni and Pando
Departments and in the Iturralde, Alto Beni, and Chapare Provinces for development
of beef cattle breeding and fattening ranches, (ii) owners of sheep ranches, including
both individual owners and co-operatives, in the La Paz, Oruro and Potosi
Departments for development of sheep production for both wool and mutton.
Part B
Provision of technical services to sheep and cattle ranchers receiving loans
under Part A, including the equipment BAB requires for the provision thereof.
Part C
Employment of consultants to make detailed recommendations on the
Borrower's meat policies; establishment of an adequate meat grading and inspection
service; construction of additional slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities, and
creation of adequate transport and marketing facilities.
Part D
Provision of loans for the construction or renovation of slaughterhouses or
cold storage facilities, and of working capital for new slaughterhouses, and the
training of up to six meat inspectors.
The Project is expected to be completed by mid-1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Operating Policies and Procedures
for BAB under the Project
I.    Project Administration
1.    The Livestock Project Division (LPD) of BAB will consist of a Project
Director, two regional sub-project directors, one pilot, at least three veterinarians,
at least thirteen field technicians and supporting clerical staff, all employed on
a full-time basis. The position of Project Director will be filled as provided in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
2.    The LPD technical staff will be primarily responsible for:
(a)   assisting  participating  ranchers  in  preparing  individual  ranch
development plans;
(b)   recommending such ranch development plans for review by the Project
Director; and
(c)   supervising the execution of ranch development plans for which loans
are made.
3.    The Project Director has, as the head of the LPD, the authority to
manage the Project in all its aspects, with the following powers and responsibilities
which he may delegate, in whole or in part, to the LPD staff:
(a)   advising the Project Loan Committee on promoting and carrying out
the Project;
(b)   approving  or   disapproving  all ranch  development   plans and
recommending such plans to the Loan Committee as the basis for
lending;
(c)   carrying out the Project in accordance with agreed policies and
procedures;
(d)   recommending suspension of disbursements in cases of misuse of loan
proceeds by ranchers;
(e)   in agreement with the General Manager, select, promote, suspend and
remove all field technicians and other LPD staff and, within specified


﻿17
limits, fixing their salaries and other compensation adequate to attract
and keep the best qualified candidates available;
(f)   prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the field technicians and
the other LPD staff and training them to prepare ranch development
plans, including the technical and economic aspects of livestock
production;
(g)   providing such supervision and technical services as necessary to ensure
successful completion of each ranch development plan;
(h)   establishing and maintaining ranch records as needed for Project
evaluation;
(i)   preparing, for the approval of BAB's Board of Directors, the LPD
annual operating budget and authorizing all expenditures thereunder;
(j)   preparing quarterly and annual progress reports to be submitted to
BAB for transmittal to the Association.
4.    The Project Director reports to the President of BAB through the
General Manager.
5.    Expenditures under Part B of Schedule 2 to the Credit Agreement
for training of selected technicians, and special and transport equipment will be
subject to the approval of the Project Director.
6.    The Project Loan Committee will consist of the General Manager and
Credit Manager of BAB and the Project Director. The Project Loan Committee
has received from BAB's Board of Directors full authority to accept or reject loan
applications on grounds of creditworthiness only and to give final approval to each
loan, subject, however, to the provisions of this Agreement. It will act upon the
recommendation of the Project Director concerning the technical and economic
aspects of each ranch development plan but it will not amend any loan application
without the approval of the Project Director. It has also received authority to
establish procedures for the collection of debts, including the foreclosure or other
enforcement of security, and to take such action as may be appropriate in relation
thereto.
7.    Approved loans to cattle ranchers will be processed through BAB's
regional office at Trinidad. Approved loans to sheep ranchers will be processed
through BAB's regional office at Oruro.


﻿18
II.   Lending Policies and Procedures
1.   Under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Borrower will make
available to BAB the proceeds of the Credit in local currency, bearing interest
at the rate of 7-1/4% per annum on the amounts withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, for a term of 16 years, including a 5-year grace period. The aforesaid
7-1/4% annual interest will be the only charge to BAB for the use of proceeds
of the Credit.
2.    Long-term loans for investment in ranch development will be made
on the basis of plans prepared by the LPD field technicians and approved by the
Project Director. The preparation and appraisal of such plans will include the
projection of costs and returns to the participating rancher for the term of his
loan. Such projections will be reviewed, at least annually, by the LPD to determine
their accuracy and practicality, and records will be kept by the LPD to provide
adequate data for measurement of results.
3.    Long-term loans will, on an average, be for 80% of the estimated total
cost of each cattle ranch development plan, and 8% of the estimated total cost
of each sheep ranch development plan, based on eligible items of ranch development
as listed in Section 1.02 (c) of the Credit Agreement, approved by the Project
Director. Such loans will bear interest at the rate of 1 2% per annum or such other
rate as may be agreed with the Association, and will have a term of 12 years
including a 4-year grace period. The incremental value of the investments to be
made will be included in the basis for the estimation of the security to be required
for such loans.
4.    In addition to long-term loans for investment in ranch development,
BAB will make short-term loans to ranchers during the first five years of the Project
to cover their requirements for incremental working capital. These loans will bear
maturities of up to 24 months as determined by the applicable ranch development
plan and consistent with the rancher's ability to repay. They will be at an interest
rate of 12% per annum or such other rate as may be agreed with the Association.
5.    Except as the Project Director may otherwise recommend, the purchase
of breeding cattle will not exceed 50% of any single ranch development loan,
provided, however, that not more than 50% of the total amount of ranch
development loans granted under the Project and financed in part from Category
I of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used for the purchase
of breeding cattle. All purchases of livestock required for the Project will be subject
to the approval of the Project Director with respect to quality, and animal health
standards.


﻿19
6.    In the case of any ranch development loan or loans exceeding in the
aggregate the equivalent of one hundred thousand dollars (US$100,000), to be
granted by BAB to any single participating rancher, BAB will request the prior
approval of the Association and will furnish to the Association such information
about the proposed loan or loans as the Association may request.
7.    All cattle and sheep belonging to participating ranchers will be
periodically vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease and paralytic rabies.
8.    If a participating rancher is found to have applied any loan proceeds
for purposes other than those stated in his ranch development plan approved by
the Project Director, BAB will, upon the recommendation of the Project Director,
promptly suspend loan disbursements until the Project Director will be satisfied
that such participating rancher has complied with the terms of the ranch
development plan.
9.    Terms and conditions of loans for construction or renovation of
slaughterhouses shall be as follows: long-term  loans for construction of new
slaughterhouses and cold storage facilities, or for renovation of existing ones, will,
on an average, be for 55% of the estimated total cost of such construction or
renovation; other terms and conditions of such loans shall be determined between
the Borrower, IDA and BAB following the receipt of the recommendations of the
consultants referred to in Section 3.02 hereof.


