MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE
INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
CHINA: WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
QINGHAI COMPONENT
(CREDIT NO. 3255-CHA; LOAN NO. 4501-CHA)
1.    Pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel
(IBRD Resolution 93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6), attached for consideration by
Executive Directors is Management's Report and Recommendation in response to the
findings set out in the investigation report dated April 28, 2000, of the Inspection Panel
on Part C of the captioned Project (Inspection Panel: Request for Inspection: China:
Western Poverty Reduction Project - Panel Report and Recommendation (Credit No.
3255-CHA and Loan No. 4501-CHA) (INSP/R2000-4 dated April 28, 2000).
2.    Also attached for infornation of Executive Directors, are:
(a)   China: Western Poverty Reduction Project - Qinghai Component -
Background Paper on the Management Report and Recommendation In
Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report; and
(b)   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies: Institutional Issues.
3.    It is recommended that Executive Directors approve the recommendations set out
in paragraphs 7-12 of the attached Report and Recommendation.
James D Wolfensohn
President






MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE
INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
CHINA: WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
QINGHAI COMPONENT
(CREDITNO. 3255-CHA; LOANNO. 4501-CHA)
I. BACKGROUND
1.    On August 24, 1999, the Board received a memorandum from the Inspection
Panel (the Panel) entitled Request for Inspection: China - Western Poverty Reduction
Project (Credit No 3255-CHA and Loan No. 4501-CHA).' Annex 2 of that document
contained the Management Response dated July 19, 1999 (Management Response) to a
request for inspection received previously with respect to Part C of the China: Western
Poverty Reduction Project (Qinghai Component). The Management's Response to the
Initial Request (July 19, 1999) acknowledged that the Disclosure of Information policy
had been violated due to late deposit of Project Documents in the InfoShop, but otherwise
was of the opinion that the Project was substantially in compliance.
2.     On September 9, 1999, the Board instructed the Panel to conduct an investigation
into whether the Bank had violated its operational policies and procedures with respect to
the design and appraisal of the Qinghai Component of the Western Poverty Reduction
Project. After carrying out the investigation, on April 28, 2000, the Panel submitted to
the Board a report entitled: The Inspection Panel Investigation Report - China* Western
Poverty Reduction Project (Panel Report).3 On the same day, the Panel delivered copies
of the Panel Report to the President.
3.     This Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection
Panel Investigation Report (Management Report) is submitted to the Executive Directors
pursuant to paragraph 23 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel (IBRD
Resolution 93-10 and IDA Resolution 93-6).4
1  (TNSP/R99-6) dated August 24,1999
2  Pursuant to paragraph 12 of the Resolution Establishing the Inspection Panel Unless the context
otherwivse requires, references to the "Project" in this document mean Part C of the Project (the
Qinghai Component)
3  Inspection Panel Request for Inspection China Western Poverty Reduction Proiect - Panel Report
and Recommendation (Credit No. 3255-CHA and Loan No. 450 1-CHA) (TNSP/R2000-4 dated April
28, 2000)
4  "Within six weeks from receiving the Panel's findings, Management will submit to the Executive
Directors for their consideration a report indicating its recommendations in response to such findings "



2    Management Report and Recommendation
II. FINDINGS OF THE PANEL
4.     The Panel Report concludes that Management is "substantially in compliance"5
with the provisions of Annex B of OD 4.00 (Environmental Policy on Dam and Reservoir
Projects);6 OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); BP 10.00 (Investment Lending: Identification
to Board Presentation); and OD 12.10 (Retroactive Financing).
5.     The Panel Report concludes further that Management is "in apparent violation of
several provisions"7 of OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment); OD 4.20 (Indigenous
Peoples); OD 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats);8 OP 4.09
(Pest Management); OP 10.00 (Investment Lending: Identification to Board
Presentation); and BP17.50 (Disclosure of Information).9
6.     The Panel conducted some 10 months of investigation, including a visit to the
Qinghai Component site. This was the Panel's first complete investigation of a project,
and is especially important because it focuses on a project to improve the livelihoods of
some of the world's poorest people. Further, the Qinghai Component involves
environmental and social issues, and has aroused considerable international attention. The
findings of the Panel have potential implications for the future not only for the Qinghai
Component, but for the application of the Bank's safeguard policies both within China
and in other countries. Management has carefully considered the Panel's report, both as it
applies to this specific Project and to the way the Bank addresses safeguard issues more
broadly.
III. RECOMMENDED ACTIONS IN RESPONSE TO THE FINDINGS'0
7.     Management recognized that during Project preparation and appraisal, greater
rigor in the application of safeguard standards should have been ensured in light of the
special circumstances of this Project. Specifically: (a) more should have been done to
ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the consultative process; (b) more could have
been done to ensure that there was greater involvement of project affected people,
including indigenous groups, in the Project design; (c) a more thorough environmental
analysis would have improved Project preparation; (d) documentation on the part of the
5 Memorandum dated April 28, 2000 from members of the Panel to the Executive Directors transmitting
the Panel Report, paragraph 2.
6 This OD was not specified in the Board's instruction to the Panel referred to above, nor was
compliance with this OD discussed in the Management Response
7 Memorandum dated April 28, 2000 from members of the Panel to the Executive Directors transmitting
the Panel Report, paragraph 2.
8 This OP was not mentioned in the instructioni from the Board to the Panel, but was addressed in the
Management Response of July 19, 1999
9 Memorandum of the Inspection Panel to the Executive Directors and Alternates, dated April 28, 2000,
in (INSP/R2000-4) Inspection Panel. Request for Inspection China Western Poverty Reduction
Proiect - Panel Report and Recommendation (Credit No 3255-CHA and Loan No. 4501-CHA)
(INSP/R2000-4 dated April 28, 2000)
i° For a fuller discussion and background of this subject see paras 9-11 et seq of the Background Paper



Management Report and Recommendation  3
Bank should have been better; and (e) information on the Project should have been
disclosed more promptly.
8.    Management had therefore agreed with the Borrower to a more thorough program
of analysis and consultations to be undertaken for the Qinghai Component prior to
implementation. The Project was presented to the Executive Directors in June 1999 on
this basis. In the Management Response of July 19, 1999, Management proposed to
expand this program further.
9.    In view of the Panel's findings, and building on the already-planned activities,
Management recommends that:
(a)    Given the special circumstances of this Project, a deeper level of environmental
analysis than was provided in the original Environmental Impact Assessment
would be conducted. Management has therefore decided that, in order to
minimize risks and answer doubts that have been raised, the Qinghai Component
will be reclassified henceforth as A under OD 4.01 (Annex E, para 3) and a
Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA) will be prepared."I The
SEIA would not include a full analysis of development alternatives as proposed
by the Panel. It would, however, include an overview of technical alternatives.
The Chinese Government maintains the position that a "B" classification should
be retained for the Project, including the Qinghai Component, because in its
opinion, the criteria and screening procedures which were applied when a B
category was assigned in April 1998 still remain appropriate. However, for the
Qinghai Component, the Chinese Government has agreed to undertake the
environmental and social studies as specified in the Attachment that would be
equivalent to the practice under a category A project.
(b)   Additional consultations be undertaken with affected people, with specific
attention given to the confidentiality and integrity of the process.
(c)   A separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (termed "Ethnic Communities
Development Action Plan" in the Attachment to this document) be prepared and
made available in the written language used by each ethnic group; however, five
separate plans would not be prepared as proposed by the Panel.
10.   The proposed actions are described in the Attachment to this document entitled
"Supplemental Environment Impact Assessment and Upgraded Social Plans." This work
would be carried out by internationally recognized consultants with terms of reference,
qualifications, and experience acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower. In addition, as
Management is treating the Qinghai Component as under preparation for the purposes of
reclassification because reclassification is an option available under the Bank's OD 4.01 and OP/BP
4 01 only prior to Board approval This is justified by the exceptional circumstance of this Component
in light of the pause in implementation and Bank financing established by the revlew of the
Component by the Panel Other parts of the Project will continue to be in EA Category "B " It is not
proposed that, as a result of reclassification, any environmental assessment work will be done other
than what is summarized in the Attachment



4    Management Report and Recommendation
noted in the Management Response of July 19, 1999, an Environmental and Social Team
of Experts (ESTE) would be established to provide the Borrower and the Bank with
independent professional advice on the Qinghai Component. A description of the ESTE,
its work and composition are further elaborated in Annex 16 of the July 19, 1999
Management Response.
11.   Management proposes that other than the Pilot Program   (see below),
implementation of the Component (including resettlement of people from the Move-out
to the Move-in areas under the Pilot Program), will not be initiated until steps, agreed
with the Bank, arising from the environmental and social work, including any changes to
the Project design, have been taken. These studies would be eligible for Bank
disbursement under the Credit/Loan if and when the Executive Directors approve the
recommendations in this memorandum. Meanwhile, efforts would be made to find grant
financing for these activities. The findings and recommendations of these studies will be
made publicly available both locally by Qinghai Province in the Move-out and Move-in
areas and by the Bank through the InfoShop. Management will also inform the Executive
Directors of the outcome. As a condition of disbursement for all activities under the
Qinghai Component, other than the studies, Qinghai Province will have taken the steps in
paragraphs 9-1 1.
12.   Qinghai Provmce expects to begin limited preparation work for the Pilot Program
(as defined in the Management Response of July 19, 1999) during the period when the
environmental and social work is being conducted and reviewed. This will include
limited field-based investigations of soil, water and drainage conditions to further refine
cropping pattems, land and water management, monitoring techniques, and necessary
land leveling and related minor infrastructure. Costs of this preparatory work would be
borne by Qinghai Province and the Borrower until Bank financing becomes available
after the disbursement condition is lifted. Bank assistance for the Qinghai Component
(including the environmental and social work and the Pilot Program) will be subject to
the Legal Agreements being amended to reflect the above.
13.   For the information of the Executive Directors a paper entitled "Background
Paper on the Management Report and Recomrnendation in Response to the Inspection
Panel Investigation Report" is attached.
IV. PANEL CONCERNS NOT COVERED BY THE RECOMMENDED ACTIONS
14.   The actions recommended by Management differ from those implied by the
Panel's findings in three respects: (a) we propose a more limited analysis of alternatives
than the Panel believes necessary; (b) we propose that a single Indigenous Peoples
Development Plan covering all ethnic minorities in the Qinghai Component be prepared,
not separate ones for each group; and (c) we propose to conduct literature reviews and
selected site surveys on ecology and biodiversity, and undertake focused evaluation of
induced and regional environmental impacts.



Management Report and Recommendation  5
15.   Analysis of Alternatives. The Panel found that the Bank had accepted
environmental assessments which "do not make any meaningful analysis of realistic
project alternatives as required by Bank policy." 12
16.   Though   Management has decided     henceforth to reclassify the Qinghai
Component, we do not recommend a new or broader study of development alternatives
than has already been conducted. The Panel suggests that the environmental assessment
should carefully and independently review all feasible alternatives to the Project. Our
view is that OD 4.01 is not intended to require the analysis of alternatives that have
already been demonstrated not to be viable from the standpoint of reducing poverty in a
sustainable manner. Rather, it is the broader process of sector work, strategy formulation
and regional planning that should lead to the choice of investment projects, and this
burden should not be placed upon a project specific environmental assessment. In the
case of this Project, alternatives have been explored at some depth over several years, and
found not to be feasible. This is documented in Annex 1 of the attached Background
Paper. Nevertheless, we do agree with the Panel that this analysis should have been
documented more fully pnor to project appraisal, and we propose that this be remedied.
17.   Indigenous Peoples Development Plans. The Panel proposes that there be five
separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plans, one for each ethnic group. We believe
that such an approach risks overlooking the important potential cross-cultural issues that
affect all groups-issues that must be addressed head on if the groups are to preserve
their cultural identity while living in close proximity to each other. The proposed single
plan would also focus on the issues of individual ethnic groups, thereby achieving the
purpose of the individual plans.
18.   Expanded Environnmental Analysis. In deciding on the level and depth of new
environmental analysis to be undertaken, we have also sought to balance costs with
benefits, while erring on the side of thoroughness. In some cases the Panel proposes
analytical work which is unlikely to yield additional insights that would influence project
design. Thus, for example, while we recommend additional work to summarize the state
of knowledge on ecology and biodiversity in the area, we do not recommend detailed
scientific research. The same applies to induced and regional environmental impacts,
where the degree of analysis recommended by Management is tailored to its usefulness in
project design. Nonetheless, we recognize that views may differ on the degree to which
"due diligence" by the Bank involves satisfying itself that every possible induced effect
has been considered.
12 Reflecting Bank policy in this regard, OP 4.01 on Environmental Assessment calls for a Category A
project to be assessed for potential negative and positive environmental impacts and compared "with
those of feasible alternatives (including the "without project" situation) The OP notes that a project-
specific EA is "normally best suited to the analysis of alternatives within a project concept" (Annex B,
footnote 3)



6    Management Report and Recommendation
V. (COMPARISON OF OPTIONS
19.   The estimated cost and time required for the actions recommended by
Management are summarized in the middle column of Table 1. The left hand column
represents the July 19, 1999 Management Response. The middle column includes the
costs of actions proposed in the July 19, 1999 Management Response In addition, the
cost of the full set of actions implied by the Panel Report, are summarized in the right
column.
TablRe I. Enmvironmenital and Social Studies - Comparative Costs
Management Response   Recommendations of         Actions
to Initial Request (July  Management in Response  to Fully Respond to
1999)         to the Inspection Panel  the Inspection Panel
Report               Report
Total    Months      Total     Months      Total    Months
Cost-US$             Cost-US$              Cost-US$
Supplemental
Environmental    470,000    10-12     830,000     12-15    1,475,000   15-18
Impact Assessment
Upgraded Social   875,000    10-12    1,120,000   12-15     1,375,000   15-18
Plans
Environmental and
Social Team of   110,000    10-12     175,000     12-15     220,000    15-18
Experts
Total       $1,455,000           $2,125,000            $3,070,000
VII. ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS
20.   It is Management's view that Operational Directives, as contrasted with later
generation OPs/BPs, contain a mixture of good practice guidance and mandatory
requirements. Moreover, both ODs and OPs/BPs provide general operational guidelines
intended to apply in different situations within the limits of the flexibility provided in the
directives. Many of the Panel's findings appear, however, to be based on an application
of elements of each policy as legally binding rules, allowing for little or no flexibility or
room for judgment.
21.    The Panel Report raises issues of broader relevance for the Bank. These relate in
particular to the formulation of safeguard policies, the linkages between environmental
and social safeguards, accountabilities and country ownership and hence, the relationship
of the Bank to a client country. These are addressed in the attached document Country
Focus and Safeguard Policies: Institutional Issues.
VRI[. RECOMMENDATION
22.   It is recommended that Executive Directors approve the recommendations set out
in paragraphs 7-12 of this Report.



Attachment
SUPPLEMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
AND UPGRADED SOCIAL PLANS
1.    Objective. The proposed upgrading of the environmental and social work is
designed to improve the detailed design, implementation, mitigation and monitoring of the
Qinghai Component. This work would proceed substantially within the framework of
design elements and legal agreements for the Project as approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1999 and described in the Management Response of July 1999.
Environmental and social studies and consultations would be conducted in the Move-out
area, Move-in area and immediately adjacent areas that may be affected.
2.    Management is proposing this work program since it provides an appropriate
balance between the need for additional environmental and social work in light of the
special circumstances associated with the Project, and the recognition that many
development alternatives have already been evaluated by the Borrower and reviewed by
the Bank. These studies would be carried out under terms of reference and by consultants
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank.
3.    An Environmental and Social Team of Experts (ESTE) would be established to
provide the Borrower and Bank independent professional advice on the Qinghai
Component of the Western Poverty Reduction Project. The ESTE members would be
selected on the basis of their professional knowledge, academic qualifications, practical
work experience with development work, knowledge of the region, and ability to serve as
members of an international interdisciplinary team.
Outputs:           Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment
Updated Social Assessment Report
Updated Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan
Ethnic Communities Development Action Plan
Updated Resettlement Action Plan
Estimated Cost:    Environmental Studies:                US $ 830,000
Social Studies:                           1,120,000
Environmental and Social Team of Experts:  175,000
Total:                               US $2,125,000
Duration:          12-15 months



8    Management Report and Recommendation - Attachment
Supplementall lEnvironmnental Imnpact Assessment ($830,000)
4.    A Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA) would be prepared,
based on which the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan would be strengthened.
The following elements would be included:
(a)   Documentation of project alternatives considered by the Borrower during Project
identification process.
(b)   Review of the environmental conditions in the Move-out area based on studies
already undertaken.
(c)   Analysis of potential technical alternatives within the Move-out and Move-in areas
that would provide a comparative assessment of actions that could be taken within
the current Project design.
(d)   Conduct of an impact assessment to cover possible environmental effects (i.e.
water, energy use, grazing impact) beyond the immediate boundaries of the Project
site13 to determine whether any additional mitigation and monitoring measures may
be required.
(e)   Examination of potential environmental and economic impacts in the Project area
and within Haixi prefecture.
(f)   Detailed Design and Implementation Studies: (i) detailed design of the conjunctive
water use program and development of ground and surface water monitoring plans;
(iH) comprehensive soil surveys; (iii) irrigation system layout; (iv) development of
soil monitoring program; (v) farmer training program; and (vi) strengthening of
pesticide management within minority communities.
(g)   Ecological Studies: (i) assessment of ecological impacts of existing settlements and
specification of range management safeguards; (ni) ecological and land use surveys
of the Balong Soak; and (iii) additional ecological studies, to include vegetation
and natural habitats assessments, to be undertaken based on literature reviews and
selected site surveys.
(h)   Supplementary Field Reviews: (i) environmental review of existing settlements and
irrigated perimeters; (ii) environmental review of water systems, including the dam
and canals; and (iii) consideration of information available on cultural resources.
(i)   Preparation of additional environmental maps based on existing information, field
surveys, and aerial photographs.
(j)   Environmental consultations in the Move-out and Move-in areas.
13 Defined as Dulan County and the Xiangride River Basin



Management Report and Recommendation - Attachment  9
Upgraded Social Plans ($1,120,000)14
5.    An Updated Social Assessment Report and an Updated Resettlement Action Plan
would be prepared. Based on these, the Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan would
be updated and an Ethnic Communities Development Action Plan would be prepared.
6.    The Updated Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan would be based on any
identified additional needs and concerns of project affected people, and would allow for
any needed refinements in the design of the Pilot Program and the Project itself Based on
the Updated Social Assessment Report, the Local Beneficiaries Action Plan referred to in
the Project Agreement would be upgraded to an Ethnic Communities Development Action
Plan which would provide analysis and recommendations regarding the unique needs,
aspirations, and cultural patterns of each of the five minority nationalities. A broad range
of fully documented public consultations would inform this process.
(a)   The Updated Social Assessment Report would be based on Participatory Rural
Appraisals (PRAs),15 a Social Impact Assessment, and a conflict resolution
framework to further: (i) promote informed participation of project affected people;
(ii) identify and propose any needed adjustments to the Voluntary Settlement
Implementation Plan, the Local Beneficiaries Action Plan, and the Pilot Program;
(iii) refine the selection criteria by which individuals and communities volunteering
to resettle are chosen; and (iv) catalog measures and suggestions for reducing
poverty which exist for those individuals, villages, and townships in the Move-out
area not selected to participate in the resettlement, and discuss these with the local
authorities. The activities would assess the social, economic and cultural impacts of
the Project in the three affected prefectures and Dulan County. Dunng the update,
additional social data would be collected and used for project planning purposes.
*    The PRAs would be conducted in thirteen villages in the settlement area and
Project townships of the Move-in area, and six potential settler villages of the
Move-out area (Tibetan, Hui, Han, Tu, Salar and one multi-ethnic village).
*    A Social Impact Assessment would be prepared based on interviews with
local officials and other specialists, and on the Qinghai regional development
plan.
*    A conflict resolution framework for the Project would be prepared based on
national and local legislation and through a consultative process concerming
the evolving pastoral and agricultural subsistence strategies of the eastern
Qaidam Basin.
(b)   The Updated Resettlement Action Plan would bring together information regarding
impacts, compensation standards and mitigation measures that is located in various
Project Documents.
4 Project Agreement, December 30, 1999, Schedule 2, Section B
5 Five to seven days would be spent by a team of qualified social science researchers (both international
and Chinese) in each village conducting a variety of focus group and social mapping exercises and
confidential interviews



10   Management Report and Recommendation - Attachment
Environmental and Social Team of Experts ($175,000)
7.    An Environmental and Social Team of Experts (ESTE) would be established to
provide the Borrower and the Bank with independent professional advice on the Qinghai
Component of the Western Poverty Reduction Project.
8.    Team Selection. The ESTE would consist of four members with expertise in
environmental aspects of land and water management; resettlement; and Chinese minority
peoples (Tibetan and Mongol in particular). The team would have the authonty to appoint
short-term specialists, as may be required, for specific assignments, subject to the prior
consent of the Borrower. As described in Annex 16 of the July 19, 1999 Management
Response, the team, would include internationally recognized experts, who would be
selected and employed by the Borrower and be acceptable to the Bank, under terms of
reference agreed between the Borrower and the Bank. The ESTE members would be
selected on the basis of their professional knowledge, academic qualifications, practical
experience with development work, knowledge of the region, and proven ability to serve as
members of an international interdisciplinary team.
9.    Mode of Operation. The ESTE would have two functions: (a) to provide advice on
preparation of the Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment and Upgraded Social
Plans, assist in their review and provide reconmmendations to the Borrower and Bank on
these matters; and (b) to provide advisory support for implementation and monitoring of
the environmental and social aspects of the Project, once under implementation. It is
estimated that during the study phase (12-15 months), each member would work about 3
months. This would include field visits and desk reviews of reports.
10.   Scope ofActivities. The ESTE would provide support for:
(a)   Study Phase: Review of terms of reference for studies, and draft and final reports.
(b)   Pilot Program Implementation: Conduct of field reviews during the implementation
of the Pilot Program to assess the results of this activity. Emphasis would be given
to assessment of the potential for moving to full-scale implementation of the
Qinghai Component.
(c)   Full-Scale Implementation: Monitor Project implementation. In this process, the
ESTE would provide overviews of the progress of the Project in addressing
environmental and social issues and make recommendations to enhance
implementation and suggest modifications if any.
11.   Key Tasks. The ESTE would review and provide advice concerning:
(a)   Detailed terms of reference for the Supplemental Environmental Impact
Assessment and Upgraded Social Plans to be supported under the Project.
(b)   Implementation of the Pilot Program, including incorporation of the results of the
environmental and social studies into the Project.
(c)   Implementation of the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan for the
Project.
(d)   Implementation of the Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan.



Management Report and Recommendation - Attachment  11
(e)   Implementation of the Ethnic Communities Development Action Plan.
(f)   Implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan.
(g)   Unanticipated environmental and social aspects of the Project that may arise during
the implementation phase.
12.   Reporting. The ESTE would prepare a report of its findings and recommendations
for each review. Detailed briefings would be given at the end of each review to: (a)
Qinghai Provincial Leading Group; (b) the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and
Development of the State Council; and (c) the Beljing office of the World Bank. The
reports of the ESTE would provide an overview of the status of environmental and social
issues, identify possible concerns that need to be addressed, and make specific
recommendations for further actions. These reports are technical reports providing
concrete recommendations for improvements, wherever needed. In order to provide an
opportunity to all parties to fairly and objectively clarify issues and provide additional
information if needed, draft reports will be discussed with the Borrower and the Bank for
comments. These reports will be transmitted to the Bank by the Borrower and then made
publicly available as part of the environmental assessment process, in a timely manner in
the Project area and by the Bank, consistent with Bank policy for disclosure of
environmental assessments (OD 4.01 para 2 (OP 4.01 para 1, footnote 1); OD 4.01 para 21
and BP 17.50 para 12).
13.   The Chinese Government maintains that existing guidelines do not provide clear
guidance on the disclosure of "expert team" reports. However, to facilitate successful
implementation of this Project, the Borrower has informed Management that it has no
objection to disclosing the ESTE reports.






China: Western Poverty Reduction Project
Qinghai Component
Background Paper
on the
Management Report and Recommendation
in Response to the Inspection Panel
Investigation Report
June 12, 2000






BACKGROUND PAPER ON THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
IN RESPONSE TO THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION REPORT
CONTENTS
Abbreviations and Acronyms ...................................................................4
I. Introduction and Overview ...................................................................5
II. The Project and Country Context ...................................................................7
A. Project Rationale, Preparation and Development Alternatives ............. ..................... 8
B. China's Record on Poverty Reduction and Safeguards ........................   ........... .. 12
C. Project Improvements in May 1999 and Management Response July 19, 1999 ......... 13
III. Environmental Safeguards ..................................................................  15
A. Initial Environmental Screening Process ...................1....5. .. .................... ......... 15
B Analysis of Alternatives ....................... . .... .............. ...1.. ... ....... ...... ...... 1 6
C Area of Project Influence ...............................1.................................... .................. 17
D. Environmental Analysis, Mitigation and Monitoring . ...... ...... ............................ 18
IV. Social Safeguards .............................................. 21
A. Indigenous Peoples .......................2.................... .....1.. ................. .........1. ........ 2 1
B. Resettlement ..........                ............................................................. 24
Annex 1. Project Identification and Review of Alternatives .............................................   27
I. Overview ....................27 ................................. ................ ... .............. ... 27
II. Poverty Reduction in Qinghai ............ ........................... . ............... ....... .... 27
III. Site Altematives ............. ...... ...................... .1... ... ....... .. ........ ...... ......... .. 31
IV Development Options Within Xiangride-Balong Area ..        ..  ...................... 35
Tables
Table I Studies and Documentation Available .. ... ..3........... .......... ................... 36
Table 2. Major Investment Projects Supported by International Donors in Qinghai ... ... 38
Table 3. Move-out Counties - Development Constraints .................. ...  . .................. 39
Table 4. China: World Bank Agricultural and Rural Development Projects
Containing Resettlement .... ...  ......................................................... 40



4 Background Paper
Currency Equivalent
RMB 1.0 = US$.121
US$ 1 = RMB 8.28
Measures
1 hectare= 2.471 acres
I meter 3.28 feet
1 kilometer= .6214 miles
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ARPP             Annual Review of Portfolio Performance
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CODE             Committee on Operational Development Effectiveness
DO               Development Objectives
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
FAO              United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
FY               Fiscal Year
Ha               hectare
ICBP             BirdLife International
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
IP               Implementation Performance
IPDP             Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
IUCN             World Conservation Union
IWWRB            International Waterfowl and Wetlands Research Bureau
Km               kilometer
NEPA             National Environmental Protection Agency
OD               Operational Directive
OED              Operations Evaluation Department
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
RAP              Resettlement Action Plan
SEIA             Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
VSIP             Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan
WFP              World Food Program
WWF              World Wide Fund for Nature



China: Western Poverty Reduction Project-
Qinghai Component
Background Paper on the
Management Report and Recommendation
in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report
I. INTRODUCTION AND OVERVIEW
1.    The Inspection Panel has found the World Bank to be in "apparent violation" of
seven out of the ten policies it examined for the Qinghai Component of the China
Western Poverty Reduction Project.' This finding warrants serious analysis and action by
the Bank. Its significance is amplified in light of the fact that the Project involves
environmental and social issues, and has aroused considerable international attention. The
findings have potential implications for the future not only for this Project, but for the
application of the Bank's safeguard policies both within China and in other countries.
Management has carefully considered the Panel's report, both as it applies to this specific
Project and to the way the Bank addresses safeguard issues more broadly.
2     This document is provided as a background to and explanation of the
Management Report and Recommendation In Response to the Inspection Panel
Investigation Report, where we laid out Management's recommendations to the
Executive Directors of the World Bank in response to the Panel's findings. Here we
discuss the Panel's substantive findings in more detail, so as to ensure that its findings are
appropriately internalized in the next steps for this Project, and that any institutional
lessons are learned and acted upon. It is also important that Management respond fully to
the major specific findings of the Panel's report. Though this is not required under the
rules governig the Panel's work, we feel it essential, given the seriousness of the
findings.
3.    Management recognizes that during Project preparation and appraisal, greater
rigor in the application of safeguard standards should have been ensured in light of the
special circumstances of this Project. Specifically: (a) more should have been done to
ensure the confidentiality and integrity of the consultative process; (b) more could have
been done to ensure that there was greater involvement of project affected people,
including indigenous groups, in the Project design; (c) a more thorough environmental
analysis would have improved Project preparation; (d) documentation on the part of the
Bank should have been better; and (e) information on the Project should have been
disclosed more promptly.
4.    A number of these weaknesses were recognized in last year's (July 19, 1999)
Management Response to the Initial Request for Inspection, which laid out an augmented
program of analysis and consultation to be undertaken prior to Project start-up. A number
Henceforth, in this document when we refer to "the Project" we refer to the Qinghai Component of the
Western Poverty Reduction Project, which comprises three separate components for Qinghai, Inner
Mongolia and Gansu



6 Background Paper
of these measures had been incorporated in the strengthened Project Documents as agreed
with the Borrower in May 1999, prior to Board consideration of the Project. In light of
the Panel's findings and in view of the specific circumstances of this Project,
Management recommends that, building on the already-planned activities: (a)
environmental work be undertaken to bring the depth and coverage of the analysis up to
the standard of a Category "A" project; (b) additional consultations with affected peoples
be carried out, with specific attention given to the confidentiality and integrity of the
process; and (c) a separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP) be prepared to
ensure that the full requirements of the Bank's Indigenous People's policy are met. These
activities are described in detail in the Management Report and Recommendation in
Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report.
5.    We believe these measures will meet most of the concerns raised by the Panel.
However, there are areas in which our recommendations differ from those of the Panel.
The treatment of Project alternatives is the most important example. The Panel suggests
that the environmental assessment should carefully and independently review all feasible
alternatives to the Project. Our view is that OD 4.01 is not intended to require the analysis
of alternatives that have already been demonstrated not to be viable from the standpoint
of reducing poverty in a sustainable manner. Rather, it is the broader process of sector
work, strategy formulation and regional planning that should lead to the choice of
investment projects, and this burden should not be placed upon a project specific
environmental assessment. In the case of this Project, alternatives have been explored at
some depth over several years, and found not to be feasible. This is documented in Annex
1 to this paper. Nevertheless, we agree with the Panel that this analysis should have been
documented more fully prior to project appraisal, and we propose that this be remedied.
6.    In addition to Project-specific measures, the Panel Report raises issues of broader
relevance for the Bank's treatment of safeguard policies. These relate in particular to the
formulation of safeguard policies, the linkages between environmental and social
safeguards, accountabilities, and country ownership (and hence, the relationship of the
Bank to a client country), and are addressed in the attached document "Country Focus
and Safeguard Policies: Institutional Issues."
7.    We wish to address some of the Panel's findings with which we do not agree, and
some of the facts, upon which the findings are based, which we believe to be incorrect.
Specifically, we wish to: (a) note that the Panel's Report did not give due consideration
and weight to the augmented measures contained tn last year's Management Response,
(b) question the Panel's interpretation of some Bank policies, and (c) correct some factual
errors This is critical to enable the Executive Directors to evaluate the Panel's Report
and the Management Report and Recommendation, and to make their judgment regarding
this Project. While the purpose of this document is not to rebut the findings of the Panel
Report, staff and Management believe that facts and the staffs view points have not been
2
fully elaborated in the Panel report .
2  Since this was the first full investigation of the Panel, it is understandable that the process was not
perfect, and it would perhaps be useful for the Executive Directors to review some of the procedural
issues involved We would recommend, for example, that in the future, opportunity be provided to



Background Paper  7
8.    This document thus seeks to provide a balanced assessment on the substantive
findings of the Panel-where we agree and where we feel the facts do not support the
Panel's findings. It begins with a bnef description of the Project and country context to
place the Panel's findings in perspective. This is followed by an assessment of the
Panel's findings in each of the major areas it addressed. Annex I provides details on
Project identification and a review of alternatives.
II. THE PROJECT AND COUNTRY CONTEXT
9.    The Panel Report concludes that Management is "substantially in compliance"
with the provisions of Annex B of OD 4.00 (Environmental Policy on Dam and Reservoir
Projects); OP/BP 4.37 (Safety of Dams); BP 10.00 (Investment Lending: Identification to
Board Presentation); and OD 12.10 (Retroactive Financing). The Panel Report concludes
further that Management is "in apparent violation of several provisions" of OD 4.01
(Environmental Assessment); OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples); OD 4.30 (Involuntary
Resettlement); OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats)3; OP 4.09 (Pest Management); OP 10.00
(Investment Lending: Identification to Board Presentation); and BP17.50 (Disclosure of
Information). The Management's Response to the Initial Request (July 19, 1999)
acknowledged that the Disclosure of Information policy had been violated due to late
deposit of Project Documents in the Infoshop, but otherwise was of the opinion that the
Project was substantially in compliance.
10.   The disconnect between Management and the Panel warrants careful analysis.
How could this situation arise, whereby the professional staff and management of the
Bank conclude that the Project is in compliance with policies, while the Panel concludes
that it is not? In answering the question, the starting point is a recognition that, what it
means to be "in compliance," depends on the interpretation of key words and phrases.
Phrases such as "meaningful consultation" (OD 4.20), "significant, irreversible and
sector-wide impacts" (OD 4.01) and "illustrative only" (OD 4 01), which are fundamental
to choices made in the implementation of the safeguard policies, are obviously open to
interpretation.
11.   In this case, Bank staff and Management believed the preparation of this Project
to be substantially in compliance because of their interpretation of these phrases, and
because they were confident of the quality of this Project and its environmental and social
safeguards. Two extra points were taken into account in reaching this judgment (a)
China's strong record on project preparation and implementation, poverty reduction and
resettlement; and (b) a set of measures that had been added in the April-July 1999 period
on both environmental and social issues, that would substantially raise the standards of
analysis, verification and documentation for the Project. The Panel on the other hand
establishes a rigorous definition of compliance, without acknowledging the measures
Management to check on facts before reports are issued The Panel's investigation process also raises
issues about the Bank's internal deliberative process
3  Not mentioned in the Instruction from the Board to the Panel, but addressed in the Management
Response of July 19, 1999



8 Background Paper
added April - July 1999, and seems to regard China's record as largely irrelevant to the
question of compliance.
12.   In order to place these issues in perspective, and clarify Management's position
with regard to safeguards in the case of this Project, this section reviews (a) the Project
rationale and history, (b) China's record on poverty reduction, resettlement and
safeguards, and (c) the quality improvements made to the Project in April-June 1999.
A. Project Rationale, Preparation and Development Alternatives
13.   In several parts of the Panel Report, the authors express the view that not enough
rigor entered the decision-making process of the Bank or the Borrower in the design of
the Project. These concerns are expressed in the context of the analysis of alternatives
and in the Panel's view that the Project came to the Bank for financing after much of its
design had been completed. These concerns raise fundamental questions for the way the
Bank does business, and for our growing emphasis on country ownership and project
preparation. Management believes that where there is a strong track record of
achievement at the program level, and where there is demonstrable analysis and
professionalism in design at the project level, we should encourage the strong degree of
national and provincial ownership, as embedded in this Project. The Panel is right to note
that due diligence on the part of the Bank requires that Task Teams document the process
by which a project is identified and prepared, including the analysis of alternatives. In the
case of this Project, there were weaknesses. However, it is a quite different matter to
imply that the substantive rationale for the Project is weak. This section briefly reviews
the process of Project identification and preparation within the broader context of poverty
reduction programs in China. Annex 1 gives more detail.
14.   The Chinese Government's Poverty Program. The Chinese Government has
designed and implemented an ambitious poverty reduction program over the last two
decades, which in turn has made a major contribution in reducing absolute poverty from
more than 30 percent of the rural population in 1978 to less than 5 percent at the end of
1998, or from about 280 million people to about 42 million in the past decade.4 At the
same time, an increasing share of the remaining poor are now concentrated in China's
western provinces, mostly in remote and mountainous, resource poor areas. Although
these upland poor have land rights, in most cases the land is of such low quality that it is
not possible to achieve subsistence levels of crop production, let alone increase their net
income. In many years, these poor people must consume grain and other subsistence
foods beyond their own production levels, leading them into a downward spiral of
poverty Ethnic minorities are particularly affected since they tend to live in upland areas
in poor counties. While ethnic minority counties account for less than 9 percent of the
national total, they account for more than 40 percent of the nationally designated poor
counties. The Move-out counties visited by the Inspection Panel belong to these
4  "China - Overcoming Rural Poverty," Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, UNDP, World Bank,
May 2000.
5 China State Ethnic Affairs Commission.



Background Paper  9
nationally designated poor counties with a large portion of ethnic minorities, located in
the remote and inaccessible area of eastern Qinghai province, in western China.
15.   Poverty Reduction Through Voluntary Resettlement.6 The severity of the poverty
and environmental destruction of many of the western uplands is extreme and
overwhelming. The upland population greatly exceeds the carrying capacity of these
lands (para 19) and, in most years, the population simply would not survive without
government assistance and relief grants. Therefore, voluntary resettlement of people from
the most severely affected upland areas has become an increasingly important poverty
reduction method in China and is now an important element in its poverty reduction
strategy. Many provinces have already carried out voluntary settlement successfully (e.g.
Ningxia, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hebei, Zhejiang, and Shandong), with Bank
support (paras 17-18).
16.   Participants in the voluntary settlement programs originate from upland areas
where people have the greatest difficulty in maintaining a sustainable livelihood because
of the limiting environmental conditions. The central government reviews and provides
partial funding support for provincial plans for poverty reduction through voluntary
resettlement, and the provincial governments take responsibility for detailed planning,
funding and implementation. Whenever possible, local resettlement is preferred to long-
distance resettlement. Resettlement is on a voluntary basis and, in practice, the number of
households wishing to resettle greatly exceeds the available slots, as is the case in this
Project. Particularly after villagers become aware of neighbors who have benefited from
resettlement, selection often becomes very competitive. Settler families typically retain
rights to use their old rainfed lands for the first two or three years after relocation, and
regulations most often allow them to reverse their decision and return to those lands at
any time during this initial period. Surveys based on other resettlement programs show
that the average settler enjoys a substantial increase in income within the first three years
of relocation, and most have few regrets about having made the move.
17.   World Bank Assistance in Clhina's Poverty Reduction. The World Bank has
supported China's goal of reducing chronic poverty for almost two decades. To date, the
Bank has been involved in 28 provinces, providing US $5.5 billion for 31 ongoing
agricultural and rural development projects. In recent years, the Bank's support has
focused on targeted poverty reduction operations in remote, resource-deficient areas of
western China. The Project is the fourth in a series of such operations. In these programs,
the Bank works closely with China's other development partners, including international
organizations (such as IFAD, FAO, UNDP and WFP) and various bilateral organizations
(including Australia, Canada, Japan, and New Zealand and others).
18.   The Bank has also been heavily engaged in the analysis of poverty reduction
strategies in China over the last decade, through systematic studies as well as frequent
discussions with the Government and other development partners. More than ten years of
Bank research, analysis, and direct project experience in China has confirmed that viable
6 For further reading on the subject, see "China - Overcoming Rural Poverty," Leading Group for
Poverty Reduction, UNDP, World Bank, May 2000.



10 Background Paper
schemes for voluntary resettlement should be considered as one of the best opportunities
for reducing poverty. The Bank's 1992 Report "China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty
in the 1990s," noting the success of China's voluntary resettlement programs, identified a
number of measures including expanded voluntary resettlement to newly irrigated areas.
Additional Bank analysis in 1996 ("China's Poverty Reduction Through Voluntary
Resettlement Program") also concluded that "where suitable conditions exist, voluntary
resettlement to newly irrigated lands remains the most reliable and cost effective means
of reducing absolute poverty in China's worst affected areas." This finding is confirmed
in the draft report "China: Overcoming Rural Poverty" (May 2000) which was discussed
at a multi-donor Poverty Conference in Beijing in May 2000. When a targeted poverty
reduction project is under design, a large number of possible strategies are considered,
ranging from integrated sets of in situ activities to activities promoting labor mobility and
voluntary resettlement. This was also the case for this Project (see Annex 1).
19.    Qinghai Province Poverty Reduction Program. Qinghai has benefitted from
various national poverty programs, but remains one of the poorest provinces in China
with the number of absolute poor in 1996 at about 669,000, or about 13 percent of the
total provincial population. About 27 percent of the provincial total population, including
over 60 percent of the province's absolute poor, live in the Project's six Move-out
counties in the eastern mountainous area of the province, which comprises 1.6 percent of
the Province's total land area. At RMB 1,174, the per capita income of Qinghai's rural
population is about 40 percent of the national average.
20.    Qinghai Province has a well-defined poverty reduction strategy based on about 40
studies on the natural, social and economic conditions of various areas of the province
(Annex 1, Table 1). These studies were carried out in the 1980s and 1990s to develop
alternative poverty reduction strategies for the varying social and natural resource
conditions in Qinghai. Basically, the strategy is differentiated according to the three sub-
regions of the Province: (a) in the south, where Tibetan herders are the predominant
population, the strategy is to improve pastures; (b) in the east, where there is potential for
in situ development, government supported and donor-assisted integrated development
activities are taking place7 (Annex 1, Table 2). During the identification period of this
Project, the Bank made site visits to these projects and had detailed discussions with
Qinghai Province and the foreign funding partners on lessons learned; and (c) in the east,
where there are no options for in situ development, voluntary resettlement, such as this
Project, has been proposed.8
7   Australian Aid, IFAD and thc World Food Program have provided assistance to Qinghai in counties
where there is potential for development in situ. These have been very small-scale programs,
capitalizing on local opportunities where they were available, which have generally not been able to
address the underlying problem of over-population in the upland areas that results in senous
environmental degradation Thus many of these activities may have questionable long-term
sustainability, a concern expressed by the agencies themselves during meetings with the Bank.
8  The World Food Programme Project 3557 has a resettlement component, where 1,600 households
from Ledu, Huangyan and Huzhu Counties in Haidong Prefecture were settled in two new villages,
east and west of Keke Town in Wulan County of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture



Background Paper  I1
21.   To meet the needs of these three different areas, three key programs were
developed in 1996: (a) the "Feeding and Clothing" Program for the Southern Qinghai
Livestock Area Program; (b) the Integrated Development of the Eastern Qinghai Dry
Mountainous Area; and (c) the Voluntary Resettlement Program. Qinghai and the
Borrower have sought support from a number of donors in implementing these programs.
International credit/loan funding from the Bank was requested for the Voluntary
Resettlement Program based on the experience of previous programs that demonstrate the
financial viability and long-term economic sustainability of these schemes. This would
enable beneficiary participation in the repayment of the loan, which is the common
practice for World Bank loans and credits in China.
22.   The Qinghai Component of the Project. The Project forms an integral part of the
broader national and provincial poverty reduction program where the Bank is only a
small player. Consistent with the principles of the Comprehensive Development
Framework, both China's central government and the Qinghai Government have full
ownership of the design and implementation of their poverty reduction activities. Thus,
the Project concept was presented to the Bank, and a request made for financing.
23.   The scope and design of the Project was defined by Qinghai Province based on its
poverty reduction strategy ("Seven-Year Poverty Reduction Plan of Qinghai Province,
1993"), supported by the numerous studies as mentioned earlier. This Project, the only
stand-alone Bank-supported project in Qinghai, was designed to reduce the incidence of
absolute poverty in remote and inaccessible villages in the Project areas, with little
potential for in situ activities, through a voluntary resettlement program. We would like
to emphasize that the Project was not designed to benefit the population in the Move-out
area at large. Rather, the focus was on the moving-out population and the affected
population in the Move-in area. Other government and donor-funded activities are and
will be focused on the population remaining in the Move-out areas. When fully
implemented, the Project would enable its beneficiaries to meet basic needs of food and
clothing and, in many cases, earn cash income from a marketable surplus to enable
continuous income growth.
24.   The six participating Move-out counties are nationally designated poverty
counties constrained by the fragility of the environment. The resource base of the
counties has been depleted as a result of a combination of population pressures, intensive
cultivation, and over grazing. The average density of population is about 114
persons/km2 (compared to less than I person/km2 in the Move-in area). Crop yields are
low due to poor soil quality and recurrent drought. Many households in the Move-out
counties do not produce adequate food grain supplies for their own subsistence and have
to borrow from relatives or better-off neighbors to supplement the limited welfare ration
provided by local governments. With steadily increasing population pressure, more
unsuitable land will be cultivated, thus accelerating environmental degradation. Even
with the use of improved technologies and systems, the population pressure would
prevent the achievement of even the most basic living standards. Through a number of



12 Background Paper
studies9 carried out by Qinghai, it has been established that the areas selected for the
Project offer little or no development opportunities and that the only sustainable
alternative is to contain cultivation of the degraded lands and assist the local population
to voluntarily seek opportunities elsewhere. The Project targets only villages with no in
situ development opportunities. In sum, this Project was designed as part of a province-
wide program for poverty reduction. It was built upon a serious analytical base, and
project alternatives were considered. We share the Panel's view that this process could
have been better documented by the Bank, but not that the process itself was weak.
B. China's Record on Poverty Reduction and Safeguards
25.    The Panel Report makes much of the phrase "in China, things are done
differently", which it apparently heard from a number of individuals it interviewed. The
Panel uses this to imply that the Bank applies its policies differently in China, suggesting
a special relationship. In this, we believe the Panel Report misreads the Bank's record.
Policies are not applied differently for different borrowers. Rather, we use a risk-
management approach that tailors the amount of detail and analysis required at appraisal
and supervision to the risks of the Project, importantly including general implementation
risks and other risks that are country specific. China's strong track record on project
preparation and implementation, including those aspects applying to resettlement and the
environment, means that we often need to do less detailed work in ensuring due diligence
than with some other borrowers. This section briefly reviews China's performance and
provides information that we feel justifies this approach. The purpose here is not to argue
that the Bank's Task Team and Management should in any way apply a softer standard in
applying due diligence, but rather that less detailed work is required to provide
confidence that standards are high. In this case, given the sensitivity and level of interest
in the Project, we recognize that more should have been done by the Bank to document
the design process.
26.    China has consistently managed its portfolio of Bank-assisted projects very well.
This is summarized in the 1998 CAS Progress Report, for example:
"The quality of the China portfolio continues to be high, with only 6% of projects evaluated by
OED over the past five years considered unsatisfactory According to the most recent Annual
Review of Development Effectiveness, the China portfolio was ranked first Bank-wide in terms of
the rewards, even when adjusted for risk. This is due primarily to the very high level of
Government ownership and commitment to ensuring successful implementation, combined with
generally strong local implementation capacity Incentlives at the local level are heightened by the
fact that the beneficiaries are responsible in most cases for repayment of loans and credits China's
highly effective approach to involuntary resettlement is noted in a recent OED study where the
Chinese projects were cited as "best practice" in terms of income restoration and "show what can
be done to make resettlement work "
9   For example, see: "Conditions on AgricultLre and Natural Resources, and Agncultural Zoning of
Datong, Huangyuan, Hualong, Xunhua, Minhe and Ping'an counties, during the period of 1980-1989,"
"Land Resources of Qinghai, 1991: "Social and Economic Statistics of Poverty Stricken Areas of
Qinghai Province, 1994-1996." A full list of studies and documentation on which the Qinghai Province
based the design of the Project can be found in Table I of Annex I



Background Paper   13
27.    The OED and QAG       consistently give the China portfolio high marks. OED
findings show that, in terms of Borrower performance for the period of FY87-97, China
comes in near the top when compared to similar countries, and is the top performer in
terms of preparation. In the Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), China's
scores for implementation performance (IP) and achievement of development objectives
(DO) are 90 and 95 percent for FY98 and FY99.10
28.    On safeguard policy performance China also rates highly. According to QAG, for
example:
"By comparison with most developing countries, China's policies on environmental assessment
and resettlement reflect a longstanding policy commitment as well as a history of competent
implementation. Environmental assessments for investment became mandatory in China in 1979,
ten years before the Bank introduced OD 4 01 China's record in other areas of social and
economic safeguards has also been strong Experience with involuntary resettlement in China has
been assessed as "best practice" by OED Recent thematic supervisions of resettlement, agro-
processing and thermal power projects confirm the quality of implementation of safeguard
policies.
29.    In March 1998, OED completed its review of resettlement, finding that China was
uniquely best practice because of its commitment to using resettlement as a development
opportunity and because of its competence in design and implementation of programs.
OED spelled out the lessons for the Bank and other borrowers from China's strong
performance. CODE discussed this report on April 28, 1998. The minutes state:"I
"Borrower Ownership. Speakers underscored the vital importance of borrower ownership,
commitment, and capacity to implement resettlement policies and the need for the Bank to work
with the borrowers to help address performance constraints and build capacity Some of them
pointed to the successful experience in China as a fine example of strong borrower ownership,
commitment, and capacity China also provided interesting comments on the report, which
confirmed the country's high level of ownership of resettlement as a development imperative."
30.    While the above discussion establishes the fact that China has been a top
performer on projects, it is also clear that performance was better in some areas than in
others and that Bank due diligence at appraisal and supervision still has an important role
to play. A forthcoming QAG report will note this.
C. Project Improvements in May 1999 and Management Response of July 19, 1999
31.    While arguing that the Bank was substantially in compliance with its own policies
in the processing of this Project, the Management Response to the Initial Request (July
19, 1999) noted that the coverage and quality of some of the preparatory work on social
and environmental issues could have been better. To remedy this, the Project was revised
in May 1999, prior to Board consideration, and the Management Response of July 19,
1999 provided details on the additional work that would be required. The Borrower
supported the inclusion of this additional work and the associated cost and delay of
iO See Annutal Report on Portfolho Performance (ARPP), Fiscal Year 1999 (CODE) 99-80), October 13,
1999
See CODE minutes, CODE/M98-6, March 22, 1998



14 Background Paper
Project start-up. Management and the Borrower viewed this additional preparatory work
as an important element in ensuring that the Project would be implemented to high
environmental and social standards. In summary, the measures discussed below were
already included in the Management Response of July 1999.
32.   Environmental Studies. The following program of Supplemental Environmental
Studies were included:,
(a)   Detailed Design and Implementation Studies: Detailed design of the conjunctive
water use program and development of ground and surface water monitoring
plans; soil mapping; irrigation system layout; development of soil monitoring
program; farmer training program; strengthening of pesticide management within
minority communities.
(b)   Ecological Studies: Assessment of ecological impacts of existing settlements and
specification of range management safeguards, ecological and land use surveys of
the Balong Soak.
(c)   Supplementary Field Review: An environmental review of existing settlements
and irrigated perimeters, environmental review of water systems, including the
dam and canals, and cultural resource survey.
Based on the above activities, the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Program
was to be strengthened, and consultations were to be held among affected people.
Improved technical maps were to be prepared.
33.   Social Studies. A series of social assessment studies, as outlined in the Project
Agreement, were to be prepared, including:
(a)   An Updated Social Assessment Summary Report based on Participatory Rural
Appraisals to: (a) promote informed participation of project affected people; (b)
identify and propose any needed adjustments to the Voluntary Settlement
Implementation Plan (VSIP), the Local Beneficiaries Action Plans, and the Pilot
Program; (c) refine the selection criteria by which individuals and communities
volunteering to resettle are chosen; and (d) review alternative poverty alleviation
strategies which exist for those individuals, villages, and townships in the Move-
out area not selected to participate in the resettlement. During the update,
additional social data were to be collected and relevant maps would be prepared.
(b)   An Updated Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan based on needs and
concerns of project affected people identified during consultations allowing for
refinements in the design of the Project if any, including the Pilot Program (as
defined in the Management Response of July 19, 1999).
(c)   Updated Local Beneficiaries Action Plan based on the needs and concerns
identified during the social assessment process to provide a meaningful
participation framework for all project affected people, and would allow for
refinements in the design of the Project, if any.
12 Project Agreement, December 30, 1999; Schedule 2, Section B



Background Paper  15
34.   An Independent Team of Experts. A team, now referred to as the Environment
and Social Team of Experts, consisting of both international and local specialists was to
provide advice on preparation of the Environmental and Social Studies, assist in their
review and provide recommendations to the Borrower and the Bank on these matters. The
Team was also to provide support and monitoring to the Borrower during the full penod
of Project implementation.
35.   The above measures, incorporated into the improved Project design in May and
June 1999 were not a major focus of the Panel's work. The Inspection Panel Report noted
that these improvements made it more complex for the Panel to assess compliance issues,
since it required them to choose whether to focus on compliance at the time of the start of
Project implementation or at Project appraisal. The Panel chose to focus primarily on the
period up to appraisal.
36.   In the next two sections, addressing environmental and social safeguards
respectively, we examine the findings of the Panel, and ask whether, looking forward,
their concerns can be responsibly addressed by the measures already agreed with the
Borrower last year, or whether additional measures will be required. In summary, we
conclude that the measures proposed and agreed with the Borrower last year (costing
around US $1.5 million) will address many of the concerns raised by the Panel. But in
light of the Panel's findings and our decision to reclassify the Project henceforth as
Category A, we are now recommending some additional activities (costing an additional
US $670,000), that will be required to deepen the verification of earlier findings, and will
be brought together in a Supplemental Environmental Impact Assessment (SEIA) and
Upgraded Social Plans (including a separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plan).
However, as discussed earlier, Management's proposals differ from those of the Panel in
a few key aspects.
III. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFEGUARDS
37.   This section reviews the Panel's findings as they apply to environmental
safeguards. Specifically, the Panel finds weaknesses in: (a) the initial environmental
screening process, (b) the analysis of alternatives; (c) the area of Project influence
including treatment of induced and multiplier effects; and (d) the depth of environmental
analysis and the preparation of mitigation and monitoring plans.
A. Initial Environmental Screening Process
38.   The initial screening of a project is the time when the Task Team undertakes a
broad stocktaking of the potential significant impacts of the project, assigns it an
environmental category and agrees on terms of reference for the environmental
assessment work. In the Panel's judgment this Project should have been placed in
Category A, requiring a fuller environmental analysis. A major reason for this opinion
was that Annex E to OD 4.01 gives an illustrative list of activities that are likely to
require a detailed analysis consistent with Category A: these include dams and reservoirs,
irrigation and flood control, land clearance and leveling, and resettlement, all of which
are included in the Project.



16 Background Paper
39.   This is a central finding of the Panel, in that many other findings stem from this
judgment, including analysis of alternatives and examination of potential direct and
indirect environmental impacts. The Management Response of July 19, 1999 noted that
this is an issue on which professionals could differ in judgment. It noted that OD 4.01
states that a full environmental assessment is required where "a project is likely to have
significant adverse impacts that may be sensitive, irreversible and diverse. The impacts
are likely to be comprehensive, broad, sector-wide, or precedent setting "(Paragraph 5,
Annex E). In this case, a B Category was assigned in accordance with screening
procedures in April 1998 following a site visit by an international consultant. This was
confirned by the Regional Environment Department in accordance with procedures
enforced at the time. It was anticipated that the potential direct impacts would be limited
in their scope and could be addressed through mitigation measures that had previously
been used successfully in other projects. The potential indirect impacts were viewed as
restricted in both their intensity and in their area of influence on the basis of Chinese
experience. It is correct that Annex E to OD 4.01 provides a list of project types that
would generally be placed in Category A, and that this Project contains several
components (including a medium sized dam,   resettlement and irrigation) that are
included in this list. However, in the Management Response of July 19, 1999 it was noted
that OD 4.01 specifically states that "this list is illustrative only", and Bank professionals
and Management have systematically opposed a "checklist" approach to environmental
categorization.
40.   Notwithstanding the procedural issues surrounding the original screening process,
Management recognizes that given the special circumstances of this Project, it would be
beneficial to conduct a deeper level of environmental analysis than was provided in the
original Environmental Impact Assessment. Management has therefore decided that, in
order to minimize risks and answer doubts that have been raised, the Project will be
recategonzed henceforth as A, and a SEIA will be prepared. The details of the SEIA are
provided in the Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection
Panel Investigation Report.
B. Analysis of Alternatives
41.   OD 4.01 requires that for Category A projects the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) should analyze alternatives in the design of the project from an
environmental standpoint to ensure that environmental costs and benefits are factored
into the choice of project design. In the Panel's view the Project entered the Bank's
portfolio too late for the Bank to have a major influence on project design, and
alternatives were not well addressed in the EIA. In particular these include the
alternatives of staying on site in the Move-out area, different locations for new
development, and altemative development options for the Move-in area such as agro-
pastoralism and sedentary pastoralism.
42.   This finding raises an important principle regarding analysis of alternatives. In
Management's view, OD 4.01 was not intended to require the analysis of alternatives that
13 Contrary to the Panel's assertion, seismicity was addressed in the design of the dam



Background Paper  17
are not economically or developmentally viable. Sound project identification and
preparation requires that alternatives be considered carefully. This was undertaken in this
Project within the context of broader sector work and project planning at the national and
provincial level. We agree that this work should have been better documented. We also
agree that more analysis needs to be done to assess the technical alternatives to support
detailed design of the Project.
43    We do not believe that it would be productive to undertake much additional work
on some of the alternatives proposed by the Panel. The in situ development option, for
example, has already been explored by Chinese and World Bank specialists. The Bank
Task Team reviewed the experiences of many of the ongoing programs in the Move-out
areas, held discussions with government and donors, reviewed many studies, made
overmight field visits to remote areas and met with local farmers and herders. The
unanimous view of the Task Team was that in situ development options, while
worthwhile to pursue on a small scale, did not present a cost effective way of sustainably
raising living standards for a large number of people. The other options proposed by the
Panel, agro-pastoralism and sedentary pastoralism, are indeed offered to the existing
population in the Move-in area. These options however, are not viable for the Move-out
population who are farmers, not herders.
44.   The Panel's opinion that the Project appeared on the Bank's "radar screen" too
late to be influenced in design is not correct. Based upon review of soil and water
availability and an analysis of carrying capacity, the size of the irrigation area was
substantially reduced (from 26,000 hectares to 19,000 hectares), as were the number of
settlers (from 100,000 to less than 60,000). Nonetheless, looking forward, we agree that it
is valuable to undertake an examination of alternative technical designs within the Move-
in and Move-out areas. We also agree that it is useful to document the full range of
development options that were evaluated by the Chinese authorities. The proposed SEIA
would therefore include both of these elements.
45.   At the same time, it is the view of Management that this finding of the Panel
attributes to environmental assessments and complementary methods of analyzing social
aspects of projects, a much greater role than was intended when these instruments were
developed and approved for use by the Bank and its Borrowers. Careful thought will need
to be given by Management and the Executive Directors as to how to honor the intention
of the policies-which is to ensure that due diligence has been done and that design of
the Project to be supported has been informed by a careful analysis of environmental and
social aspects-while at the same time respecting the Borrower's vision and ownership of
the development program.
C. Area of Project Influence
46.   In assessing potential environmental impacts, it is necessary to consider impacts
that may be indirect or may occur outside the Project area. In the view of the Panel the
EIA should have more clearly defined the Project area and analyzed "induced" and
"'multiplier" impacts in more detail, and should have defined the area of Project influence
more broadly.



18 Background Paper
47.   The EIA prepared for the Project did describe the Project area and evaluate
potential indirect and induced effects, but in a more limited manner than has been
recommended by the Panel. This analysis was based on 20 years of Bank experience in
China, which indicates that the potential for induced development in this type of setting is
minimal. This is based on factors such as household expenditure patterns in rural China
(it is estimated that only about US$12-17 per person per year will be spent in the local
economy after Move-in), and by the way construction is undertaken, with either
dedicated crews who export their earnings or through self-help approaches involving the
beneficiaries as the main source of labor. These conditions, in the view of the Bank,
significantly reduce the risk of induced environmental impacts through the local economy
and of "boomtown" effects that often are associated with major construction programs in
other countries.
48.   Nonetheless, we recognize that in light of questions raised there is merit in
providing a better description of the Project area and evaluating environmental impacts
more broadly. We therefore recommend an analysis of potential direct and indirect
environmental impacts as described in the Management Report and Recommendation in
Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation Report.
D. Environmental Analysis, Mitigation and Monitoring
49.   The Panel raises additional questions concerning the depth of environmental
analysis and the preparation of mitigation and monitoring plans. Have the potential
environmental impacts of this Project been analyzed appropriately to give confidence that
mitigation measures are adequate? Are the mitigation and monitoring plans well designed
and adequate? Were photographs and maps effectively used in the environmental studies?
50.   Environmental Mitigation Plans. In the Panel's judgment there are a number of
areas in which the design of mitigation measures should have been taken further prior to
appraisal of the Project. Examples cited by the Panel include: (a) crossing problems at the
irrigation and bulk water canals that could block the passage of local residents and
herders; (b) provision of transit corridors for livestock through the Balong Irlgation Sub-
District; (c) management and disposal of wastes from new towns and villages; (d) issues
related to use of electricity for heating and appliances; and (e) concerns about oil and
mineral development in the region, including drilling operations.
51.   It is of course important that these issues be addressed. These normally would be,
and will be in this case, an integral part of detailed design as the Project proceeds. In each
of the cases raised by the Panel, a clear framework exists for moving forward, and will be
documented in the proposed updated Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan:
(a)   Crossing Bulk Water Supply Canals The Panel is correct in noting that canal
crossings can be an issue of concern This is an issue that was taken into account
by the Water Resources Bureau staff, who have budgeted for 15 engineered
bridges, the location of which will be fixed during the final design stage on the
basis of consultations with relevant affected people.



Background Paper  19
(b)   Transit Corridorsfor Livestock. The need for livestock corridors was identified as
part of the consultations undertaken for the purposes of the environmental and
social assessment. As mentioned in the July 19, 1999 Management Response,
they have been included in the design as feasibility level provisions, but more
work needs to be done to specify them fully. This includes defining their width,
based on consultations with herders and more detailed analysis of stock numbers,
movement times and soil capability.
(c)   Management and Disposal of Wastes. Throughout rural China, the overwhelming
majority of animal and human wastes, particularly in poor areas where farmers
have insufficient funds to purchase artificial fertilizers, are disposed of on
farmers' fields or to a lesser extent used as fuel. Regarding the disposal of other
wastes, the quantities are not large due to the very low material consumption of
poor farmers although there is a generic problem throughout China regarding the
adverse visual effects of inadequately disposed of plastic film and plastic bags.
(d)   Electrical Heating and Appliances The low income levels of the beneficiaries
restrict their household use of electricity to lighting, some low consumption
purposes such as radios and in exceptional circumstances, television. The cost of
using electricity for heating would be completely beyond the financial capacity of
the average participating family now and for the foreseeable future.
(e)   Oil and Mineral Development The drilling rig observed by the Panel members is
understood to have been undertaking hydro-geological investigations pursuant to
the recommendations made in the mathematical modeling study for water
resources done as part of the preparatory work for the Project. To the best of
Management's knowledge, the only oil development in the Qaidam Basin is a
small refinery located approximately 200 km from the Project site. There is also a
natural gas pipeline connecting Lhasa with Geermu, which is about 90 km from
the site.
52.   Natural Habitats and Biodiversity. The Panel finds the Project to be in
contravention of OD 4.04, "Natural Habitats." Specifically, it suggests that the
information provided in the EIA is not sufficient to assert with confidence that the area is
not critical for rare, vulnerable, migratory or endangered species.
53.   In fact, a large number of expert analyses were consulted in reaching judgments
associated with the status of biodiversity. In accordance with the provisions of the OD,
Chinese and Bank specialists consulted authoritative sources of information on current
protected areas and priority areas for conservation to determine the potential impact of
Project supported activities on natural habitats and biodiversity. Sources include the
Biodiversity Review of China (WWF International), Biodiversity Action Plan for China
(NEPA), and the Directory of Asian Wetlands (WWF, IUCN, ICBP and IWWRB). These
sources indicate that while important natural habitats exist within Qinghai Province as a
whole, the priority conservation areas are far from the sites to be developed and will not
be affected by the Project. According to the technical studies undertaken as part of
Project design, the only potential indirect impact of the Project on natural habitats would
be in an area extending about one kilometer northeast of the main irrigation area. This
area of seasonally waterlogged land was referred to, for convenience, as the "Balong



20 Background Paper
Soak." Mathematical modeling showed that the groundwater table in this area could be
seasonally lowered by between 0.1 and 0.5 meters. Funding is already provided in the
Project for monitoring and land use surveys that would form the basis for a management
plan. On the basis of investigations undertaken by Chinese specialists, it was not
anticipated that the Project would have significant indirect adverse impacts on other areas
of ecological significance in the area of influence as originally defined.
54.   Although Management considers it unlikely that the area is critical for rare,
vulnerable, migratory or endangered species, the Borrower has agreed that the proposed
SEIA would evaluate potential direct and indirect impacts on natural habitats and
biodiversity by Project-supported activities; assess technical alternatives that may reduce
potential impacts; and identify management, mitigation and monitoring measures. This
would include the assessment of ecological impacts of existing settlements and
specification of range management safeguards, ecological and land use surveys of the
Balong Soak and additional literature reviews and reconnaissance studies of the fauna
and flora in the Project area and the greater area of influence. This analysis would be
supported by photographs to show representative habitats, maps would be prepared to
show distribution of major natural habitats, and relevant scientific literature and
unpublished sources of information would be reviewed. The Environmental Mitigation
and Monitoring Plan would be updated, if necessary, to include additional mitigation
measures and monitoring actions to address the conservation of natural habitats and
biodiversity.
55.   Pest Managemnent. While Bank funds will not be used for pesticide purchases, the
Panel noted that since counterpart funds will be used, a Pest Management Plan should
have been prepared and documented under OD 4.09.
56.   It is true that the Project does not include a freestanding Pest Management Plan.
However, pest management issues were evaluated in the original Environmental Impact
Assessment and the Project design provides support for agricultural extension and
training activities to address this matter. In addition, a formal agreement exists with
Chinese authorities that all pesticides procured with counterpart funds will be restricted to
World Health Organization Class II and III types, consistent with existing policy.
57.   Management agrees that these actions would be more easily accessible if
consolidated in the form of a Pest Management Plan. Therefore, a freestanding Pest
Management Plan would be prepared as an element of the SEIA. The Plan would provide
a consolidated analysis of the potential pest management issues associated with the
Project, review pesticide screening procedures and a list of proposed pesticides, describe
the training programs for extension personnel and farmers, and outline planned
monitoring actions. In addition, it would include detailed information concerning the
technical assistance program under the Project that will develop awareness programs for
pesticide transport, storage, application and container disposal. It would also outline the
elements of the Project-supported activity for "Strengthening Pesticide Management in
Minority Communities."
58.   Maps and Documtentation. The Panel also finds that the documents for the
Project, including the EIA, do not include adequate use of photographs and maps.



Background Paper  21
Although the maps were adequate for the purposes of Project preparation, this finding is
accepted and recognized as a weakness in the presentation of the EIA and associated
documents. However, the range of maps used in Project preparation was much richer than
suggested by the Panel, including satellite imaging for soil investigations and
environmental analysis (Global Panchromatic Spot Satellite Image Map). The SEIA
would include the extensive use of photographs and maps that illustrate physical,
biological and socio-economic conditions in the Project area.
IV. SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
A. Indigenous Peoples
59.   Issues relating to indigenous peoples lie at the heart of the controversy
surrounding this Project. The majority of Project beneficiaries and all involuntarily
resettled people are ethnic minorities. The poor people from the Move-out counties will
be drawn from a variety of ethnic groups: Tibetans, the Tu, the Muslim Hui and Salar
peoples, and the Chinese majority ethnic group, the Han. The Move-in area is also a
multi-ethnic area with Mongols predominating but with substantial Han, Tibetan, and Hui
populations. The Task Team acknowledged the complexities of designing a Project
suitable for all ethnicities and reached agreement with Qinghai and the Borrower that
detailed social assessments should be undertaken before designing a Voluntary
Settlement Implementation Plan (VSIP) and the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for
involuntary resettlement. Both the resulting Social Assessment and VSIP included
analyses of the cultural backgrounds and needs of the various involved ethnic groups and
suggested a series of measures to maintain inter-ethnic cooperation and the equal
distribution of Project benefits. After the controversies around this Project arose, the
Bank revisited the detailed design of these activities in order to assure itself that the
concerns that were raised had been taken into consideration.
60.   As a result, a number of clarifications and improvements were agreed upon with
the Borrower, and included in the Project design. These improvements were reflected in
the Project Appraisal Document presented to the Board in June 1999. Multi-cultural and
multi-lingual education facilities in primary and secondary schools, ethno-medical health
care delivery facilities, ethnic cultural centers, and other culturally appropriate measures
were agreed upon for implementation in both the Move-in and Move-out areas. A series
of additional social studies (Participatory Rural Appraisals) were also planned to verify
and validate the results of previous studies, ensure the confidential input of project
affected people, and explore possible additional improvements of both the Pilot stage of
the Project and the Project itself.
61.   The Inspection Panel asserted that these supplemental studies presented problems
for them in assessing compliance. After reflection they chose to give little weight to the
additional studies on the grounds that they were to be completed after appraisal, and thus
found the Project to be out of compliance with OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples) for four
principal reasons: (a) there are no separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plans
(IPDP); (b) the consultations carried out were not confidential, and therefore they could
not constitute "meaningful participation," i.e. people did not feel free to voice their



22 Background Paper
personal opinions; (c) the consultations carried out were too narrow in scope, excluding
possibly adversely affected local Tibetan and Mongol groups; and (d) the unique ethnic
lifestyles and ways of life of the local Tibetan and Mongol groups, specifically their
pastoralist subsistence strategy, was not sufficiently taken into account while considering
the Project.
62.   Separate Indigenous Peoples Development Plans. The Panel's view is that the
Bank misread OD 4.20 when it concluded that no Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
was necessary because the Project design itself is the Indigenous Peoples Plan. In the
Panel's view, a separate IPDP should be prepared for each ethnic group.
63.   In light of questions raised, we acknowledge that indigenous peoples' issues could
have been better addressed in a separate IPDP, which is now recommended. Preparation
of a separate plan would encompass consultations with the various ethnic groups and
would enable ethnic specific adjustments to the Project. The IPDP would build upon, and
supercede, plans for enhancing local ethnic cultures already included in the agreed upon
Local Beneficiaries Action Plan. The Project design and its relevance to the indigenous
groups would be presented in the written languages of these groups.
64.   This said, the Panel's finding that it is inappropriate to consider the Project as a
whole as a proper IPDP substitute is more a comment on the OD rather than a critique of
this particular Project. The OD is clear that treating the entire Project as an IPDP is
warranted in the case where the bulk of those who benefit from the Project are indigenous
peoples. Indeed many experts within the Bank and Bank Management maintain that full
integration can promote a more thorough approach to planmng and help mainstream
minorities' concerns into the design of the Project. The Panel's view, furthermore, that a
separate IPDP should be prepared for each ethnic group is also not required under the
OD. Whether individual IPDPs add value to the quality of the project design and
ownership is debated among the professional community. Some would argue that
separate plans help ensure that each group's concerns are adequately reflected in project
design, while others argue that inter-ethnic and pan-ethnic issues argue for one
comprehensive plan or indeed inclusion in the project design as a whole, as the OD
allows.
65.   Meaningful Participation. The Panel finds that the Bank failed to ensure
meaningful consultation among the affected ethnic populations. Central to this finding is
the failure to ensure confidentiality of the participatory process.
66.   We agree that more should have been done to maintain confidentiality and
integrity of the consultation process. The Management Response of July 19, 1999
described the extensive consultations that were held, but also agreed that there should
have been greater efforts made to facilitate confidentiality of the discussions. For this
reason the Management Response of July 19, 1999 included a series of additional
Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRAs), that would be held without officials present so as
to increase confidentiality and preserve anonymity. However, the Panel's assertion that
"Bank staff has a responsibility to guarantee confidentiality of the respondent"
(paragraph 29, Executive Summary of the Inspection Panel Report) expands the
interpretation of "full and informed consultation" (OD 4.20). OD 4.20 does not provide



Background Paper  23
specific standards for ensuring "informed participation" and recognizes that there are "no
foolproof methods.. .to guarantee full local-level participation." We would like to
reiterate that while much can be done to try to ensure confidentiality, the operational
difficulties are considerable, not least because the Borrower undertakes such work, and
not the Bank. In this context, we would like to note that despite the imperfections in the
social consultations, the Social Assessment revealed some negative views toward the
Project, and discussed possible mitigation suggestions recommended by Mongol and
Tibetan herders and farmers in the Move-in area, which were included in the Project
design.
67.   Coverage of Consultations. The Panel finds that an inadequate number of
affected people were consulted. Specifically, the Panel claims that no survey was carried
out among the 289 nomadic pastoralist households who pass through the Project area
twice a year, and that only three Tibetan households were consulted. In addition, the
Panel claims that eight Mongol villages in the Move-in area were overlooked by the Bank
and not included in the 4,000 project affected people.
68.   Here the Panel's facts are incorrect The Panel states that the largest group of
affected people, the nomadic pastoralists, were not surveyed or consulted. In fact thirty
such households were surveyed and consulted (a 10 percent sampling). Similarly 58
(instead of the Panel's three) Tibetan households were surveyed. And the eight Mongol
villages were not overlooked by the Project. They are included in the 4,000 affected
people, but seem to have been double counted by the Panel (see below).
69.   Nonetheless, we agree with the Panel that a broader geographic coverage is
needed to cover a wider group of local people who may be affected by the Project beyond
the immediate settlement area. For description of this expanded series of social studies
see the Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection Panel
Investigation Report. In the Move-in area, social assessments will be conducted for the
settlement area and its encompassing Project townships of Balong, Zongjia, and
Xiangride, and also for the designated Project affected areas farther afield For the Move-
out area, social assessments will be conducted not only in the villages from which settlers
will move out, but also in the local Project affected areas.
70.   Tailoring the Project to Ethnic Differences. The Panel finds that the unique
ethnic lifestyles and ways of life of the local Tibetan and Mongol groups, specifically
their pastoralist subsistence strategy, were not sufficiently taken into account while
considering the Project.
71.   Prior to the Board presentation of the Project, but after appraisal, the Bank
acknowledged that more work was needed to tailor Project benefits and mitigation
measures to the needs of different ethnic groups. This included a series of measures,
including a Pilot period preceded by extensive additional social studies, and consultations
with beneficiaries and affected groups during the Project period. The Management
Response of July 19, 1999 noted that culturally appropriate activities such as
multicultural education and training programs in Mongolian and Tibetan as well as the
provision of culturally diverse health care delivery systems (specialists and
pharmacologies) are included in the Project Agreement (as part of the Local Beneficiaries



24 Background Paper
Action Plan). The needs of Muslim Hui and Salar to live apart from "non-believers" was
recognized so as to maintain dietary customs; the culturally and linguistically compatible
Tu and Mongols will live in contiguous communities; and local Tibetan and Mongol
religious and cultural needs are respected. New economic opportunities will be offered to
local Mongols and Tibetans who choose to take advantage of Project benefits.
Furthermore, the social studies prior to the Pilot will specifically use PRA activities to
ascertain the further social and cultural needs and desires of local Mongols and Tibetans
in the Project area.
72.   The Panel's statement that pastoralism is not being supported by the Project is
inaccurate. Herders were consulted and their suggestions (for grazing corridors and the
option of a mixed herding-farming lifestyle) were incorporated into a Project design that
enables pastoralism to continue. The Social Assessment revealed that most Mongol
herders in the Move-in area have already begun a semi-herding, semi-farming subsistence
lifestyle, and so the Project design allows for participation in agriculture and access to
fixed sources of water and empowers the herders themselves to decide on their economic
alternatives. They can continue their current mix of pastoralism and agriculture or can
adjust as they like.
B. Resettlement
73.   The Panel declared the Project to be out of compliance with OD 4.30 (Involuntary
Resettlement) for three main reasons: (a) the number of affected persons identified for
compensation was underestimated; (b) the project affected people will not be
appropriately compensated for their losses; and (c) the preparation of the RAP did not
adhere to all the procedural requirements of OD 4.30.
74.   Coverage of the Resettlement Plan. The Panel claims that the Bank missed many
of the villages in the general Project area and that it underestimated the area affected by
irrigation canals. The first claim is incorrect. The eight villages that the Panel claims have
not been included in the "Project area" are eight of the ten Balong Township villages
(Wulasitai, Nuomuhong, Hatu, Xiatu, Buluoge, Tuotuo, Keri, and Yikegaoli). The Panel
appears to have mistakenly double counted them in the total number of people in the
immediate Project-area, arriving at a larger number of directly affected people.
Documentation supplied to the Panel, however, might have been inadequate on this point,
and may account for the error.
75.   It is correct that possible resettlement due to construction of the canals has not yet
been exactly determined. At the time of appraisal, the RAP could not establish how many
people, if any, would be affected by canal works because canal siting had not yet been
determined. Instead, a policy framework was prepared to establish principles and
standards for any resettlement eventually caused. This practice is consistent with OD
4.30, and it has been followed in a number of Bank projects. The Revised RAP will
include any people affected by the canal works' siting. The requirements to implement
appropriate remedies to resettlement-related impacts associated with the canal works
would be enforceable under the Project Agreement.



Background Paper  25
76.   The Compensation Package. The Panel finds that the project affected people
have not been appropriately compensated for their losses, as not all impacts have been
addressed. The specific bases for the finding are that the RAP failed to compensate for
the full range of potential disruptions to resource access, for changes that would occur in
social organization or social relationships, and for future risks and eventualities. OD 4.30
explicitly states that not all losses or future eventualities can be subject to valuation and
cash compensation, and that income restoration is the objective of the RAP. Management
believes the RAP provides substantial forms of assistance that, taken together, will allow
affected persons to improve, or at least restore, both incomes and living standards. It
should be noted that losses are relatively slight: partial loss of pastureland for 63 herder
households, loss of farmland in a defunct irrigation scheme for 248 households, and
partially disrupted migration patterns for 289 herder households. In return, all affected
households receive free house-plots and a small settlement grant, and those losing
farmland or pastureland receive irrigated land as a replacement. Residence in the
settlement also provides access to new or improved services (e.g., schools, clinics) and
opportunities to participate in, or benefit from, other aspects of the program.
77.   The Resettlement Action Plan. The Panel finds that the RAP itself was
inadequate because it did not include all of the planning elements that OD 4.30 requires.
But all of the essential policy elements of a RAP were prepared and incorporated into the
VSIP, which Management considered to be appropriate given the very close linkage
between the voluntary settlement program and the resettlement preferences of those
persons involuntarily affected. Although details regarding survey results, planning
decisions and technical justifications were not specifically presented in the RAP annex to
the VSIP, all of the substantive work required was undertaken. It should be noted that no
separate time bound implementation schedule is possible, because the timing of
involuntary resettlement-related activities is specifically contingent on accomplishment
of specified objectives in the VSIP.






Annex 1
China: Western Poverty Reduction Project- Qinghai Component
Project Identification and Review of Alternatives
1. OVERVIEW
1.    Introduction. This Annex responds to the Panel's concerns that the planning
process failed to adequately consider alternatives to the project. It provides information
on the process used for Project design, which was identified and prepared by the
Borrower with the assistance of the Bank. It summarizes the development and site
alternatives that were reviewed by the Borrower. On the basis of this process, a decision
was made to voluntarily settle 57,775 persons from the Move-out area in Datong,
Huangyuan, Hualong, Xunhua, Minhe and Ping'an Counties in the eastern portion of the
Qinghai Province to the Move-in area planned Project site in Dulan County in the east
central portion of the Province.
2.     Section II summarizes the poverty reduction strategies and development options
that were considered by Qinghai Province, leading to selection of a program based on the
concept of voluntary settlement. Section III describes the altemative sites that were
considered for the Project. Section IV summarizes options that were considered for
development of the preferred site at Xiangride-Balong.
II. POVERTY REDUCTION IN QINGHAI
3.    Provincial Strategy. As noted previously in this document, the Project is part of a
Provincial poverty reduction strategy formulated over the past decade and validated
through a large volume of serious analyses at various levels. Over a number of years, the
Province analyzed alternative poverty reduction strategies suitable to its specific natural,
social and economic conditions. The Province defined its poverty reduction strategy
based on an impressive number of studies carried out in the 1980s and 1990s (Table 1).
4.    In summary, Qinghai's poverty reduction strategy is differentiated regarding three
areas in the Province: (a) in the south where Tibetan herders are the predominant
population, the strategy is to improve pastures, in accordance with the expressed desire of
the herders; (b) in the east where there is potential for in situ development, government
supported and donor assisted integrated development activities are taking place; and (c)
in the east where there are very limited options for in situ development, voluntary
settlement, such as this Project, has been proposed.14
5.    Three Coinplenientary Programs. To implement the Province's poverty
reduction strategy, three programs, supplemented by donor funded activities (Table 2)
were developed in 1996.
14 The World Food Programme Project 3557 has a resettlement component, where 1,600 households
from Ledu, Huangyuan and Huzhu Counties in Haidong Prefecture were settled in two new villages,
east and west of Keke Town in Wulan County of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture



28 Background Paper - Annex I
(a)   Feeding and Clothing Program for the Southern Qinghai Livestock Area. This
program aims at improving living and production conditions for about 45,700
herder households through construction of settlement sites, animal sheds, fenced
pastures and improved fodder production base. The program is to be completed in
2002.
(b)   Integrated Development of the Eastern Qinghai Dry Mountainous Area. The
program is to benefit about 1.5 million people in 151 poor townships of 14
counties in the eastern mountainous area of Qinghai. It focuses on integrated in
situ development through soil and water conservation and watershed development
to improve the ecological environment and production conditions. The first phase
of the program will be completed this year and the second phase is estimated to
take 10 years starting in 2001.
(c)   Voluntary Resettlement Program (of which this Project is a part). International
credit/loan funding from the World Bank was requested for this Program based on
the experience of previous programs that demonstrate the financial viability and
long-term economic sustainability of these schemes. This would enable
beneficiary participation in the repayment of the loan, which is the common
practice in China for World Bank loans and credits.
6.    Eastern Qinghai - The Move-out Counties. The six participating Move-out
counties are nationally designated poverty counties constrained by the fragility of the
environment. The resource base of the counties has been depleted as a result of a
combination of population pressures, intensive cultivation, and overgrazing. The average
density of population is about 114 people/km2. The area is physically located in the
transitional zone between the Loess Plateau and the Qinghai Plateau at an elevation of
1,700 - 3,250 meters comprising deep valleys separated by very steep hills. Between 60 -
85 percent of the land is hillside, and more than one third of the land being farmed has
slopes in excess of 250. Average rainfall is in the range of 320-520 millimeters per year,
solar radiation is very high and average temperatures are low. Water resources are ample
in the valleys but very limited on the slopes and hilltops due to geological and soil
conditions. Drinking water is derived from rainfall storage cisterns dug into the ground,
water supplies for farm animals are very limited and irrigation is almost impossible.
7.    The hillsides, from which the settlers originate, are very eroded. About 75 percent
of Ping'an County is classified as "eroded" of which about 50 percent is classified as
"highly eroded" or "extremely highly eroded." To add to difficulties imposed by lack of
water, the area is also subject to weather induced disasters including drought, high winds
and periodic flash floods, the impact of which is worsened by the widespread
deforestation throughout the area. Crop yields are low due to poor soil quality and
recurrent droughts. Many households do not produce adequate food grain for their own
subsistence and have to borrow from relatives or better-off neighbors to supplement the
limited welfare ration provided by local governments. Based on extensive research, it has
been determined that the area offers little or no development opportunities and that the
only sustainable alternative is to contain cultivation of the degraded lands and assist the
local population to voluntarily seek opportunities elsewhere.



Background Paper -Annex 1  29
8.    Consideration of Alternative Poverty Reduction Strategies. The Bank Project
Team's consideration of alternative poverty reduction strategies and project alternatives,
carried out during the identification stage, consisted of a series of discussions with the
Ministry of Finance, the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction, various levels of
government in Qinghai and donor organizations. These discussions concerned China's
poverty alleviation strategies, policies and efforts in general, as well as detailed
discussions about the Project concept. The Project Team held meetings with IFAD in
Rome, UNDP, WFP, EU in Beijing and AusAid in Qinghai. These discussions were
concentrated on lessons learned from their field activities in Qinghai in counties where
there is potential for in situ development (Table 2). These have been very small-scale
programs, capitalizing on local opportunities where they were available and have
generally not been able to address the underlying problem of over-population in the
upland areas, which results in serious environmental degradation. Thus many of these
activities may have questionable long-term sustainability, a concern expressed by some
the agencies during meetings with the Bank.
9.    The discussions were complemented by field visits in the Move-out and Move-in
areas and review of relevant data and other information. The field visits included
overnight stays in remote villages, discussions with farmers and herders, and meetings
with local technical bureaus to discuss the information obtained at the provincial level.
Chinese speaking Bank staff and consultants reviewed some of the original studies (Table
1). This documentation consists of numerous studies and research programs
commissioned by the Provincial Government before the Project was proposed to the
Central Government.
10.   The purpose of the identification phase of the Project was to identify a
development strategy that would provide a sustainable basis for long-term poverty
reduction of the target population. To this end, basically three main strategies were
considered: (a) in situ improvement and intensification of agriculture; (b) alternative
employment schemes; and (c) agricultural development combined with voluntary
resettlement for the target beneficiaries.
(a)   In Situ Improvetnent and Intensification of Agriculture. Based on lessons learned
and review of the situation in the Move-out counties, in situ improvement and
intensification of agriculture was not considered a sustainable option. The
unsuitable natural conditions, severe environmental degradation, excessive
population pressure, extreme difficulties in providing any basic infrastructure
(safe drinking water, roads, electricity) combine to make large scale in situ
development impossible (Table 3).
While it is technically possible to build terraces in areas with heavy erosion, steep
slopes and depleted soils, it is not economically feasible due to the high costs
involved compared with the minimal increase in yield from terracing in an area
with such a low rainfall. Terraces are not a feasible option in these areas of less
than 300 mm of annual rainfall. These conditions also reduce the scope for
diversification of agricultural production systems such as introduction of major
new crops and/or expanded production of livestock and poultry. While some
scope for these activities was identified in villages on less steep hills, it was
deemed insufficient to meet the needs of a larger population. Such in situ



30 Background Paper-Annex I
activities will instead be taken up as measures to enhance the livelihoods and
incomes of those who remain in the Move-out areas.
Large scale in situ development is possible in areas like the Loess Plateau with a
lower population density (about 80 per kM2) and higher annual precipitation
(about 500 mm). In neighboring Gansu Province and Ningxia Hui Autonomous
Region with similar conditions, voluntary resettlement has also been established
as the only feasible alternative for larger scale assistance in other Bank-supported
projects (e.g. Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project, Northern Irrigation Project).
(b)   Alternative Employment Schemes. Possibilities were reviewed for alternative
employment generation schemes in the Move-out areas that would create local
employment in small-scale enterprises. Based on previous Bank support to such
schemes elsewhere in China, these interventions were assessed as having limited
scope and would not provide an adequate basis for a substantial poverty reduction
strategy.
Also, similar to the Bank supported Southwest Poverty Reduction Project, Qinba
Mountains Poverty Reduction Project and Gansu Hexi Corridor Project, the
possibility of an organized labor mobility program was considered. Three main
constraints in the Move-out areas ruled out this option: (i) Qinghai lacks in-
province urban employment opportunities for rural populations. The Province is
still one of the least developed in China with a weak urban economy that provides
very limited urban employment opportunities for rural populations. Since 1985,
the urban population has remained stable at about 34 percent; (ii) about 55 percent
of the population in the Move-out areas is semi-literate or illiterate. This makes
any surplus rural laborers from these areas less competitive as sources of labor
mobility to other parts of the country; and (iii) there has been a very limited
number of rural laborers going to other parts of the country from the Move-out
areas. Four of the six Move-out counties are minority autonomous counties and
over half the total population is composed of ethnic minorities. Minority
populations in the Move-out areas are traditionally engaged in agricultural
activities.
(c)    Voluntary Resettlement. 15 The severity of the poverty and environmental
destruction on many of the western uplands is extreme and overwhelming. The
upland population greatly exceeds the carrying capacity of these lands and, in
most years, the population simply would not survive without government
assistance and relief grants. Therefore, voluntary resettlement of people from the
most severely affected upland areas has become an increasingly important poverty
reduction method in China and is now an important element in China's poverty
reduction strategy. Many provinces have already carried out such activities quite
successfully (e.g., Ningxia, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hebei, Zhejiang, and
Shandong), with Bank support (Table 4). Based on the Bank's previous
experience in China, voluntary resettlement was considered as a potentially very
useful tool for effective poverty reduction in the Move-out areas where the
population greatly exceeded the carrying capacity of the land.
15 For further reading on the subject, see China Overcoming Rural Poverty, Leading Group for Poverty
Reduction, UNDP, World Bank, May 2000



Background Paper-Annex ]  31
Ill. SITE ALTERNATIVES
11.   Analysis of Alternative Sites. Having determined that a voluntary settlement
program would best meet the needs of the target beneficiaries in the six counties, the next
analysis of alternatives related to the identification of sites suitable for development of a
sustainable agricultural system to support the settlers from economic and social points of
view. The two most critical factors impinging on site selection are:
(a)   Water must be available to support irrigated agriculture. It would not be feasible
to base the development on a rainfed agricultural system due to the generally low
rainfalls throughout the Province.
(b)   Soils must have physical and chemical characteristics suitable for irrigated
agricultural development; the main requirements are good physical characteristics
(loams, sandy loams, loamy sands), low to moderate salt content (generally less
than 5 percent) and reasonable nutrient status (particularly organic matter
content).
12.   The next most important criteria were:
(a)   To the extent possible, the development site should not be permanently occupied
or subject to substantial usage rights.
(b)   The proposed developments should have minimal direct and indirect adverse
environmental and social impacts.
(c)   Basic infrastructure, particularly electricity, should be available or within
reasonable proximity to reduce development costs.
(d)   Access to the site(s) should be reasonable and include all weather access roads.
(e)   Overall development costs should be acceptable.
13.   Alternative Sites Reviewed. The first two criteria defined four alternative
development areas located in the two main hydrological basins of Qinghai Province; (a)
(Yellow River) Gonghe Basin (with one potential development area) and (b) the Qaidam
Basin (with three potential development areas in West, North and East).
(a)   (Yellow River) Gonghe Basin. The potential development area, the Gonghe Basin,
is a sub-basin of the Yellow River, located approximately 160 kilometers west of
the Move-out area. The Basin extends over a distance of about 210 kilometers
under the jurisdiction of Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture (Gonghe,
Guinan and Xinghai counties).
The Yellow River flows from the southwest, dividing the Basin into two large
sections, Talatan in the northwest and Mugetan in the southeast. Together these
areas contain about 175,000 ha of land suitable for reclamation, of which 600 ha
is Class I land (best suited), 27,000 ha is Class II land, and 147,400 ha is Class Ill
land. The best concentration of land suitable for development is in Talatan, which
contains a total of about 73,000 hectares of potentially developable land located in
a reasonably compact area. Of this land, only about 27,000 ha has been developed
(for livestock purposes) due to the very high costs required for irrigation works



32 Background Paper-Annex I
and other facilities. The current population of the Talatan area is about 20,000
people of whom about 50 percent are minorities, principally Tibetans.
The main advantages of this area are:
o     Annual Rainfall: Average annual rainfall is relatively high (250-330 mm)
which would potentially require less water per irrigated unit of developed
land.
o     Close to Move-out Area: The area is also the closest of the alternative sites
to the Move-out area, which would reduce relocation costs.
*     Close to Urban Centers: The proximity to the Provincial capital, Xining
(about 160 km away) would make provision of basic infrastructure
relatively easy and also potentially provide a good outlet for produce.
The main disadvantages of this area are:
o     Existing Grazing Leases: All of the land suitable for development is
already the subject of grazing leases. Due to the relatively high rainfall,
Talatan has been providing good grazing grounds in the winter and spring
and the entire area has been contracted to local herders. For the Project to
proceed, there would have to be substantial revocation of leases and a
considerable proportion of the total investment would have to be devoted
to compensating the affected people in an acceptable way.
o     Desertification: The area is subject to quite severe desertification due to
high winds and overgrazing. Drifting sands and dunes are spreading in the
region at a rate of about 500 hectares per year. Another contributing factor
to the land degradation problem is that soils throughout the area are light
and quite sandy which also means that they are not ideally suited for
irrigation. The herders in this area have expressed their wish to improve
the grassland by ceasing production activities in order to improve the
ecological conditions. Measures include gradual control of grazing
pressures combined with other actions to promote reestablishment of
ground cover.
o     High Development Cost: The development costs of the irrigation system
would be too high to achieve economic sustainability of the proposed
investment. The main surface water source in the area is the Yellow River
but it is difficult to utilize due to the fact that it is confined to deep valleys
about 500-600 meters below the general ground surface. The underground
water resources are also deep. Irrigation development would require
construction of a medium size reservoir about 90 kilometers away from
the existing Longyangxia Power Station. A ten stage lift pumping system
would be required to get water from the reservoir to the development site.
The total cost for development of the irrigation system would be in the
order of RMB 1.16 billion (US$6,300/ha) with an annual operating cost of
around RMB    20 million, making the development unacceptably
expensive.
(b)   Qaidam Basin. The potential development area in the Qaidam Basin runs
diagonally, southeast-northwest, through the center of Qinghai at an average



Background Paper - Annex 1  33
altitude of 2,600-3,300 meters. The Basin has a total area of about 25.6 million ha
under the jurisdiction of Haixi Mongolian and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture (5
counties and 3 administrative commissions) of which about 303,000 ha or about
1.2 percent of the Basin's total area is potentially suitable for development.'6 All
potential development areas are located on slopes at the foot of the surrounding
mountain ranges. Currently, the area of developed land is less than 47,400 ha,
mainly concentrated in Nuomuhong and Xiangride of Dulan county,
Chachaxiangka and Saishike of Wulan county and Delingha City. The three
alternative development areas in the Qaidam Basin are:
(i)   West Qaidam Basin: There are two potential development areas located in
the vicinity of the Narim Gol River (also referred to as the Nalinggele
River), approximately 600 kilometers west of the Move-out area. The total
land suitable for agricultural development is about 68,000 ha, including
23,000 ha in Geermu town and 45,000 ha in Big/Small Zaohuo and
Wutumeiren. All land in Geermu has been developed since the 1970s
except 3,300 ha available arable land adjacent to Chaerhan Salt Lake
(where most land is seriously salinized and cannot be cultivated), an area
which is too small for any ,meaningful development. The land in Big/Small
Zaohuo and Wutumeiren area consists of two separate locations, neither of
which is particularly attractive for development. There are no obvious
advantages of these locations. The main disadvantages are:
*     Soil Quality: The soil has poor organic content, requiring intensive
soil improvement before the land can be used for any agricultural
development. In addition, the soil is highly saline (with over two-
thirds of the area covered by soils with salt content greater than 5
percent), requiring several years of leaching before any cultivation
can commence.
*     Water Supply: The only water source available for development in
this area is Nalinggele River, approximately 100 km away in a
remote and inaccessible location, which would mean high delivery
costs. The estimated cost of the water conveyance and storage
facilities is on the order of RMB 700 million
*     Site Access: The site is very remote from the Move-out area and
has no road access or power supply.
(ii)  North Qaidam Basin: There are two potential development areas located at
widely separated locations on the northern side of the Basin and about 800
kilometers west-northwest of the Move-out area. This area has a total of
34,000 ha of land suitable for development including Dachaidan Zhen
(28,000 hectares) and Lenghu Zhen (6,000 hectares). But the areas are
widely scattered and there are virtually none that are consolidated enough
to be suitable for the scale of development envisaged. This area is
considered as suitable for limited fodder development.
16 The major portion of the Basin comprises either steep mountain land or low-lying saline swampy land,
neither of which has potential for agricultural development



34 Background Paper - Annzex I
(iii)  East Qaidam Basin: This area, located about 450 km west of the Move-out
area has a total of 201,000 ha of land suitable for agricultural development
of which 8,000 hectares is in Wulan County, 89,000 ha in Delingha City
and 104,000 ha in Dulan County, predominantly in the Xiangride-Balong
area.
With implementation of the World Food Program Project No. 3557 (with
voluntary resettlement) basically all suitable land has been developed in
Wulan County. In Delingha City, only about 31,000 ha of land has already
been developed for irrigated agriculture; the remaining land is unable to be
developed due to serious water shortages. The Xiangride-Balong area (in
Balong and Zongjia townships) in Dulan County has a large area of
reclaimable land available. ' 7
The main advantages of the Xiangride-Balong area are:
o     Relatively sound economic basis.
o     Moderate climate.
o     Low population density (0.2 person per km2).
o     Reasonably rich water and land resources. Soils in the area have
good development potential with reasonable structure, moisture
holding capacity and organic matter content. Saline and sodic soils
are  present although  salinities  are  generally  acceptable
(predominantly less than 5 percent);
o     Reasonably good level of basic infrastructure (closeness to roads
and electncity).
o     Previous experience demonstrating successful oasis development
in the area indicating that the Project is technically feasible.
The main disadvantages of this area are:
o     The further distance (compared with Gonghe Basin) from the
Move-out area, increasing the relocation costs.
o     Produce outlets are not as accessible as for the other sites (with
proximity to Xining and Geermu, the major population centers in
or close to the Qaidam Basin).
14.   Final Selection of Site. Of the four possible development areas, the final decision
rested on a comparison between a development in Gonghe Basin and a development at
Xiangride-Balong in the East Qaldam Basin. Gonghe Basin was favored by its
availability of infrastructure, relatively better climate, and closer proximity to the Move-
out area, and to a major population center such as Xining. It was disadvantaged by the
fact that all suitable development areas are already leased to local Tibetan herders for
grazing purposes, the high cost of water resources development and the already existing
environmental problems in the area.
17 Public lands without private leases



Background Paper -Annex 1  35
15.   A development at Xiangride-Balong was favored by its large availability of
reclaimable land, low population density, the availability of adequate water and soil
resources, infrastructure availability and its comparatively low development cost. It was
disadvantaged by its greater distance from the Move-out area and less favorable access to
produce markets.
IV. DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS WITHIN XIANGRIDE-BALONG AREA
16.   A major concern in site selection was minimizing the cost of water supply, which
could be achieved by locating the development area as close to the Xiangride River as
possible. However, site selection is also governed by the location of soils suited to
irrigation development in terms of structure and chemical composition and occurrence in
sufficient areas to justify the cost of water delivery. An extensive soil mapping program
indicated that the soils meeting these criteria were located predominantly in the Balong
area, the center of which is located about 70 kilometers from the Xiangride River.
Consideration of the availability of soil resources was the main factor that led to a
reduction in the scale of the development in terms of both development area, which was
reduced from 26,000 ha to 19,000 ha, and the number of people to be accommodated,
which was reduced from 100,000 people to less than 60,000 people.
17.   The need for sufficient water to service the irrigated area while maintaining an
acceptable flow in the Xiangride River to satisfy downstream uses was also a
consideration. Within that context, there were a wide range of options as to the balance
proposed between the use of surface water and groundwater. During Project preparation,
five options were evaluated using mathematical modeling techniques,18 ranging from
total reliance on groundwater (requiring no reservoir construction) to total reliance on
surface water (requiring no borehole development). The recommended option involved a
balanced (conjunctive use) approach intended to provide an optimum balance among
three considerations: meeting water demands, preventing secondary salnization (by
controlling the level of the groundwater table) and minimizing changes to water tables in
the swampy areas north of the irrigation area.
18 Dong, X Preliminary Study and Report on Analysis Result of Groundwater Modeling for Balong
Report prepared by Xinjiang Agricultural University, October 1998, 22 pp Plus maps, Annexes



36 Background Paper - Annex 1
Table 1. Studies and Documentation Available
I. NATURAL RESOURCE CONDITIONS
Geographical   a   Land Resources of Qinghai, 1991, by Qinghai Provincial Committee
Features       e   Conditions on Agricultural Natural Resources and Agricultural Zoning of the Move-
out counties during the period of 1980-1989; 1980-1989 by Related Counties*
*   Qinghai Manual, 1989 by Qinghai Agricultural Engineenng Society
Climate        a   Agricultural and Livestock Climate Resources Analysis of Qinghai and Their Zoning,
1985 by Qinghai Research Institute of Meteorology Sciences
*   Climate Observation Information, 1990-1996
Hydrology      *   Soil and Water Conservation Program of the Typical Watersheds in Loess Plateau
Area of East Qinghai, 1986, by Qinghai Provincial Water Conservancy Department*
o   Qinghai State Land Resources (Water Conservancy Part), 1989, by Lao Chuntai
o   Hydrology Observation Information, 1990-1996
*   Rational Utilization of Soil and Water Resources while Engaging in Integrated
Agricultural Development of Qaidam Basin in Qinghai, 1986**
Land           a   Land Resources and its Utilization in Qinghai, 1989, by Xiang Liping and published
Resources          by Qinghai People's Publishing House
a   Social and Economic Statistics in Poverty - Stricken Areas of Qinghai Province, 1994-
1996*
o Soil Type Map of Qinghai, 1989, published by Science Publishing House
o   Livestock Resources and Zoning in Qinghai, 1987, by Livestock Zoning Group of
Qinghai provincial Livestock Department
o   State Land Programming in Qaldam Basin, 1988, by Provincial Planning Committee"0
o   Land Resources Assessment and Research on Land Program by Areas 1994, by
Qinghai Plateau and Geography Institute
o   Land Evaluation and Research on Land Utilization by Areas 1994, 1996, by Qinghai
Plateau and Geography Institute
*   Qinghai Soil Survey Data Bank, 1993, by Qinghai Plateau and Geography Institute
Il. SOCIAL CONDITIONS
Population     *   Qinghai Social and Economic Statistics, 1996
o   Social and Economic Bulletin of the Provincial Poverty-Stncken Area, 1996
(Provincial Poverty Reduction Office Internal Document)
o   On Population, 1992, by Wang Jiahua, Hal Guisheng, Liu Baomin and Yao Hulmin
and published by Qinghai People's Publishing House
o   1 % Population Sample Survey Nationwide (Qinghai Part), 1995
o   Population Carrying Capacity and Population Migration, 1993, by Zhang Zhiliang,
published by Gansu Science and Technology Publishing House
Nationalities  a   On Population, 1992, by Wang Jianhua Hai Guisheng, Liu Baomin and Yao Huimin
and published by Qinghai People's Publishing House
o   1% Population Sample Survey Nationwide (Qinghai Part), 1995
o   Qinghai Ethnic Minorities, 1987, by Ethnic Minority Research Institute of Qinghai
College of Nationalities, and published by Qinghai People's Publishing House
o   Qinghai Ethnic Minorities, 1987, by Ethnic Minority Research Institute of Qinghai
College of Nationalities, and published by Qinghai People's Publishing House
Religious      a   Qinghai Manual, 1989, by Qinghai Agricultural Engineering Society
Tepls of Qinghai, 1986, by Qinghai Cultural Relics Management Office~.
* - information relate to Move-out areas only.
- information relate to Move in area only
All other information relate to both Move-out and Move-in areas



Background Paper-Annex ]    37
III. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (STRUCTURE, OUTPUT AND INCOME)
* Qinghai Social and Economic Statistics, 1994-1996
* Social and Economic Bulletin of the Provincial Poverty-Stricken Area, 1996
(Provincial Poverty Reduction Office Internal Document)
* Compilation of Documents Related to Economic Development of Poverty-
Stricken Areas in Qinghai Province, by Provincial Leading Group for
Economic Development in Poor Areas (internal document)
* Seven Year Poverty Reduction Program of Qinghai, 1994, released at the
provincial Poverty Reduction Working Conference
* General Program of Agricultural Development in Haixi Prefecture, 1996, by
Qinghai Plateau and Geography Institute**
IV. SITE SELECTION STUDIES
* Rational Utilization of Soil and Water Resources in Agricultural
Development of Qaidam Basin, a Joint research carried out in 1985 by China
Agncultural Engineering Research and Designing Institute, Qinghai
Provincial Planning Committee, Provincial Departments of Water
Conservancy, Agriculture and Forestry, Livestock, Mining, and Provincial
Academy of Agricultural Sciences, ctc
* Research on Qaidam Basin, carried out in 1990 by Provincial Science and
Technology Committee, Qinghai Plateau and Geography Institute, Geography
Department of Lanzhou University and Provincial Planning Committee (State
Land Department)
* Feasibility Study on Developing Agriculture in Xiangride-Balong of Qinghai
Province in 1990 by Qinghai Provincial Water and Electric Power Designing
Institute
* Report on Talatan Water Conservancy Program in Gonghe County of Hainan
Tibetan Prefecture, carrled out in 1984 by Qinghai Provincial Water and
Electric Power Designing Institute
* Integrated Agricultural and Livestock Development Program of Gonghe
County of Hainan Tibetan Prefecture in 1986 by Agriculture and Livestock
Zoning Office of Gonghe County
* Report on Talatan Barren Land Survey of Gonghe Prefecture of Hainan
Tibetan Prefecture in 1978 by Provincial Department of Agriculture and
Forestry



38 Background Paper - Annex I
Table 2. Major Investment Projects Supported by International Donors in Qinghai
(A) Southern Qinghai - Livestock Development
Project                      Major Activities                Financier            Implementation Period             Project Location
Clothing the Population of the    Livestock infrastructure          Central Government      1996-2002                     Southern Qinghai
Southern Qinghai Livestock Area
IFAD Project                      Livestock, agriculture, forestry,  [FAD                   1995-2000                     Hainan prefecture
irngation, rural industry, support
services, special credit for womcn
etc
Livestock Development             Research and extension on livestock  EU                   1995-2001                     Guoluo prefecture
_and pastureland                   _Japa_
Livestock Wintenng                Livestock infrastructure          Japan                  2000-2004                      Guoluo prefecture
(B)   Eastern Qinghai - in situ Development
Project                      Major Activities                 Financier           Implementation Period             Project Location
Integrated Development of the     Rural infrastructure - water and soil  Central Government  1996-2000 phase one          14 counties in eastem Qinghai
Eastern Qinghai Dry Mountainous   conservation, watershed                                  2001-2010 phase two
Area                              development
WFP5717/lFAD424                   Rural infrastructure              WFP/IFAD                1997-2000                     Xunhua, Hualong, Pingan
counties
Potato Development                Potato breeding                   EU                      1998-2001                     Provincial Research Institute for
Agriculture and Forestry, Ledu,
Huangzhong, Minhe counties
Rape Seed Improvement             Strengthening of production system  UNDP                  1997-1999                     Huzhu county
and producers' skills
Basic Education (fll)             School building, teaching equipment  World Bank           1996-2001                     All 14 nationally-designated
_____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____ poverty  counties
Poverty Reduction and Sustainable  Equipment, TA, training, micro   UNDP                    1997-2000                     Guide, Tongren, Huangyuan
Development of Human Resources    credit                                                                                  counties
(C)   Eastern Qinghai - Volu tary Resettlement
ProJect                      Major Activities                 Financier           Implementation Period             Project Location
WY_FP3557                         Irrigation                        WFP                     1989-1995                    Wulan county in Haixi prefecture
Voluntary Resettlement Program    Comprehensive development in      World Bank                                           Datong, Hualong, Ping'an, Xunhua,
Move-in area                                                                           Huangyuan, Minhe in east Qinghai
& Dulan county in Haixi prefecture



Background Paper - Annex 1   39
Table 3. Move-out Counties - Development Constraints
Natural Resources
Parameters                                      Incidence
Annual precipitation                                 320-530 mm
Annual evaporation                                    1740-2220 mm
Per capita water resources                           Less than one third of the national average
Per ha water resources                               Less than one fourth of the national average
Incidence of drought                                 Once every 1.8 years
Per capita cultivated land                           0.16 ha (which is decreasing with population
expansion)
Irrigated land                                       22 percent of the total cultivated land
Land above 25 degree slope                           About 30 percent
Population Pressure
Parameters                                      Incidence
Population density- 1996                             114 person//km2
Total population below poverty line (poverty line in 1996  30 1 percent
prices is RMB 580/person in agricultural areas and RMB
680/person in herding areas
Other Constraints
Parameters                                      Incidence
Per capita grain availability                        320 kg
Per capita annual net income                         RMIB 795 (68 percent of the provincial
average)
Illiterate or Semi-literate                          About 55 percent
Population without access to adequate drinking water  150,000 (about 11 percent of the total
population)
Animals without adequate access to water             177,440 (about 12 percent of the total
animals)
Number of villages without electricity               71 (about 5 percent of the total villages)
Number of villages without road access               150 (about 11 percent of the total villages)
* Figures are from eastern part of Qinghai Province, which is generally representative of the Move-out
Counties



40 Background Paper - Annex I
Table 4. China: World Bank Agricultural and Rural Development Projects Containing Resettlement
Summary        Type of     Resettlenient   Inhabitants    Reason for          Alteration of Minority Population in
DO'    RSet' Resettlement   Area (within)     Affected      Relocation   Minority involved  Move-in Area Move-out Area
1999 Anning Vallcy Agricultural       S      S    Involuntary  County                   2,638 Canal etc     None               No            no             Sichuan
Development
1998 Tarim Basin 11                   S      S    Voluntary    county and a non-       10,000 for better and  Uygur, Kirghiz, Hui non-populatcd no          Xinjiang
Bank financed                  irigatcd land  (100% of total)   desert land
activity
1997 Qinba Mountains Poverty          S      S    Involuntary  no physical              2,750 land acquisition Hui (250 persons)  No         no             Sichuan, Shaanxi,
Rcduction                                                rcsettlement is                                                                              Ningxia
expected
1996 Gansu Hexi Corridor              S      S    Voluntary    Province               200,000 Poverty       Dongxiang (22,600), yes          yes            Gansu
alleviation    Hut (23,400),
Tibetan (4,000)
rInvoluntary  County                    566 Rcscrvoir      None              No            no
1995  Yangtze Basin Water Rcsources   S      S    Involuntary  Province                12,587 Dam           None               No            no             Hunan, Hubei
1995  Southwest Poverty Reduction    HS      S    Involuntary  no physical             scvcral land acquisition Zhuang, Miao, Yao, No        no             Guangxi, Yunnan,
resettlemcnt is       thousand               Yi, Buyi (50% of                                Guizhou
expected                                     total)
1994  Xiaolangdi Resettlement         S       S   Involuntary  Province               180,000 Dam           None               No            no             Henan
1993  Taihu Basin Flood Cont          S       S   Involuntary  Province                13,100 Flood control  None              No            no             Jisangsu, Zhejiang,
Shanghai
1988  Northem Irrigation 3           HS      HS   Voluntary    Province                54,384 Poverty       Hui (majority)     yes           yes            Ningxia
I______________________________I________  _______  ____________                         alleviation
Note I/ DO = Developmcnt Objectives
Note 2/ RSet = Rcscttlement
Note 3/ Projcct was closcd in 1998



Country Focus and Safeguard Policies:
INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
June 12, 2000






COUNTRY FocuS AND SAFEGUARD POLICIES: INSTITUTIONAL ISSUES
CONTENTS
Acronyms ...................................................4
I. Introduction ....................................................5
II. World Bank Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies .................................................7
A. Evolution of Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies ..... .... 7.......... ... .. .... .. 7
B. Environmental Assessment and Social Policies . ........................9...................9
C. Disclosure Policy ......................1......... 1
III. Implementation of Safeguard Policies ...............................           14
A Interpretation of Policies ....................... . ................................ .. ............ 14
B. Compliance with Policies ........................... 15
C. Resources for Safeguard Policies ........................... 17
IV. Country Focus .................................                                 18
A. Increased Country Focus . .................. .......... ... .......... .... ....18.......... .............. 18
B. Trends in Lending .............. .... ... .......... ... ............. ..... . ... ... 19
C. Safeguard Policies and Programmatic Lending ...... ... . ..... ......2.... ..0.. ............. .20
V. Conclusions ................................................ 23
Annex A. Operational Statements-The Evolving Vocabulary .............................................. 25
Boxes
Box 1. World Bank Safeguard Policies ... .......... ........... ... .7..................... .........7
Box 2. Safeguard Assessment .1...................1.............              l l
Box 3. Disclosure Requirements for Safeguard Policies ................. . ..... ... ....... 12
Box 4. Capacity Building for Resettlement ....................... ... . .. . ......... .......... 22



4     Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
ACRONYMS
AFR                     Africa Region
APL                     Adaptable Program Loan
BP                      Bank Procedures Statement
CAS                     Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                     Comprehensive Development Framework
CODE                    Committee on Development Effectiveness
EA                      Environmental Assessment
EAP                     East Asia and Pacific Region
ECA                     Europe and Central Asia Region
ENV                     Environment Department
ESSD                    Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Network
GP                      Good Practice Statement
IFC                     International Finance Corporation
IPDP                    Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
ISG                     Information Solutions Group
LCR                     Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LEG                     Legal Department
MDB                     Multilateral Development Bank
MNA                     Middle East and North Afnca Region
OD                      Operational Directive
OED                     Operations Evaluation Department
OMS                     Operational Manual Statement
OP                      Operational Policy Statemcnt
OPC                     Operational Policy Committee
OPN                     Operational Policy Note
OPS                     Operations Policy and Strategy
OVP                     Operational Vice President
PAD                     Project Appraisal Document
PID                     Project Information Document
PRSP                    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QACU                    Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit
QAG                     Quality Assurance Group
RDV                     Rural Development Department
RED                     Regional Environment Division
RESU                    Regional Environment Sector Unit
RVP                     Regional Vice President
SAP                     Systems Application Program
SAR                     South Asia Region
SDV                     Social Development Department
SEA                     Sectoral Environmental Assessment
SECAL                   Sector Adjustment Loan
WBI                     World Bank Institute



Country Focus and Safeguard Policies:
Institutional Issues
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    Throughout its history, the World Bank has evolved in line with the changing
needs of its clients. The Bank's early operations helped Europe to rebuild after World
War II. As Europe recovered, and the independence movement swept the globe, the Bank
turned to a different, but related, set of issues and challenges-the needs of developing
countries. As these needs changed over the years-in response to the oil crisis of the
1970s, the debt crisis of the 1980s, the transition crisis of the 1990s-the Bank adapted,
while retaining its primary focus on development finance and advice. In recent years, of
course, the Bank has sharpened its focus on poverty reduction as the overarching goal of
all its work.
2.    Safeguard Policies. Coinciding with this sharpened focus on poverty reduction
was the increasing recognition of the importance of the environmental and social impacts
of donor-supported development projects. The Bank responded to these concerns by,
among other things, addressing its own policies-articulating more precisely what is
required of the Bank and its borrowers in preparing and implementing projects, and
distinguishing what is mandatory from what is advisory. By the late 1990s, the Bank
began grouping its long-standing environmental and social policies-which it recognized
as being particularly important in its operational framework-under the term "safeguard
policies." It was also at this time that the Bank began to focus on compliance issues as a
special operational priority. These events marked the beginning of "operational policy
reform," a Bankwide work program that continues today and is now reaching out to
partners in the context of policy modermization and harmonization.
3.    Country Ownership. Meanwhile, the development assistance paradigm itself has
evolved. At its core is the shift from the development project to the country as the unit of
account, and the growing recognition that country-owned policies and institutions are the
key to sustained development impact. The Comprehensive Development Framework
(CDF) exemplifies this evolution, with its emphasis on development programs rather than
projects, and on country ownership of development rather than the imposition of ideas
and conditions by donor agencies. Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers (PRSPs) build on
this approach. Both the CDF and the PRSP also highlight the importance of results,
reinforcing the Bank's attention to implementation issues and outcomes.
4.    Institutional Issues. There are some tensions between these two trends-toward
clearer articulation and better implementation of project-based safeguard policies on the
one hand and toward greater focus on country programs and capacity building on the
other-in part because they reflect different development assistance models. But to date,
those tensions have not clearly surfaced in a systematic way, nor have they been resolved.
Recent developments in country programs and in discussions of lending instruments and
operational policy implementation suggest that there would be considerable benefits to
looking at these trends together, with a view to promoting synthesis and synergies.
Indeed, several issues warrant full debate and discussion with and within the Board,



6    Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
especially in view of their important strategic and sizable resource implications both for
the Bank and for borrowers. They include the following:
o     How should the Bank balance its responsibility for due diligence with respect to
the implementation of the safeguard policies in specific investment projects,
against the proven importance of building country ownership of policy and
institutional directions for sustained development impact? How can we increase
the development impact of our safeguard policies?
*     How   should we manage the linkages between the Bank's environmental
safeguards and the social safeguards? Should we consolidate the existing system
of environmental assessments, resettlement plans, and indigenous peoples
development plans into a simpler and more coherent framework for "safeguard
assessments" and disclosure? Should we develop an integrative social assessment,
paralleling the environmental assessment?
O     What should be the minimum acceptable standards for compliance with the
safeguard policies? What would be the resource implications for the Bank and its
borrowers if standards are raised? How can we ensure the continuing adaptation
of the roles and accountabilities in the Bank's current matrix structure to ensure
satisfactory outcomes?
5.    Strategic Implications. The answers to these questions will have major
implications for the Bank's strategic directions, in light of the important resource trade-
offs they imply. Some are very straightforward, such as the need to simplify, consolidate,
and harmonize our safeguard and disclosure policies to facilitate understanding and
compliance. But others are more far-reaching. A new social assessment mandate and
higher quality standards could bring benefits, but would also entail major implementation
costs-requiring either more resources or redeployment from other activities. More
seriously, they would raise the cost to borrowers of doing business with the Bank and
could dissuade them from engaging on projects in which such issues are likely to arise-
with the possible result that less attention would be paid to environmental and social
issues. But the most far-reaching implication relates to the strategic choice between
tougher social and environmental standards for individual projects, requiring, for
example, "best possible practice" as suggested by the Inspection Panel, versus greater
emphasis on building country capacity and ownership of environmental and social
policies, via sectoral environmental and other safeguard assessments. While in prmciple
the approaches are complementary, in practice-especially with fixed resources-there
are trade-offs. They must be carefully considered as a basis for corporate decision-
making and strategy. They will shape the direction of the Bank for many years to come.
6.    Organization of the Paper. Against this background, this paper is structured
around three themes-the Bank's environmental and social safeguard policies, their
implementation, and their country focus. Section I1 considers the evolution of the Bank's
social and environmental safeguards, the balance between them, and relevant disclosure
policies. Section III looks at accountabilities and resources for safeguard policies. Section
IV looks at country issues and the consistency of the safeguard approach with enhanced
country focus.



Institutional Issues  7
II. WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD POLICIES
7.     This section summarizes the evolution of the Bank's environmental and social
safeguard policies. It then discusses one area where the Bank's operational policy
framework is not well understood-environmental categorization and assessment in
projects where the predominant issues are social-and one area, social policy, where
some feel that our framework is incomplete. It briefly discusses disclosure requirements
for environmental assessments (EAs), indigenous peoples development plans (IPDPs),
and resettlement plans, an area in which the existing policy framework is unclear and
needs to be amended.
A. Evolution of Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies
8.     The Operational Manual' contains the Bank's operational policy and procedural
instructions to staff. The Manual has existed since the 1960s, albeit in different forms.
(Annex A summarizes its evolving vocabulary.) As currently structured, the Manual
groups operational policy statements by function.2 Along with the fiduciary policies,
which cover procurement and financial management, priority is given to the
environmental and social policies-which (along with two legal policies) are known as
"safeguard policies" (see Box 1).
Box 1. World Bank Safeguard Policies
The term "safeguard policies" was first used in the 1997 Cost Effectiveness Review Report a It comprises
ten policies, of which seven are in the environmental and social areas. The safeguard policies are
OP 4 01    EnvironmentalAssessment       OPN 11 03 Cultural Property
OP 4 04    Natural Habitats              OP 4 36    Forestry
OP 4.09    Pest Management               OP 4.37    Safety of Dams
OD 4 20   Indigenous Peoples             OP 7 50    Projects on Initernational Waterways
OD 4 30   Involuntary Resettlement       OP 7 60    Projects in Disputed Areas
Four of the safeguard policies relate to environmental issues-enviromnental assessment, natural habitats,
forestry, and pest management; and two relate to social issues-indigenous peoples and involuntary
resettlement An additional statement deals with the closely related area of cultural property
See Report on the Cost Effectiveness Review (R97-23 1), October 14, 1997.
9 Pre-1987 Operational Manual. The Bank's concern with the environmental and
social impacts of its operations dates back at least 30 years. Operational Manual
Statement (OMS) 2.36, Environmental Aspects of Bank Work, was issued in May 1984,
but it reflected a long-standing concern: "Since 1970 the Bank has steadily increased its
attention to the environmental opportunities and risks introduced by the development
process" (para. 2). This OMS set out the principles on which it was based: that projects
The Operational Manual is available at the following website.
http //wbInOOl l.worldbank org/lnstitutional/Manuals/OpManual nsf/
2 Operational policy reform was discussed in World Bank Operational Policies Lessons of Experience
and Future Directions (CODE97-73), November 20, 1997, World Bank Operational Policy Reform
Progress Report (CODE98-13), March 5, 1998, and World Bank Operational Policy Reform Content,
Communications, and Compliance (CODE98-48), July 24, 1998.



8    Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
not "exceed the regenerative capacities of the environment, ... cause severe or
irreversible environmental deterioration, ... compromise the public's health and safety,
." and so on. These principles connected environmental effects with social effects: the
Bank "will not finance projects that displace people or seriously disadvantage certain
vulnerable groups without undertaking mitigatory measures acceptable to the Bank"
(para. 9). The OMS referred readers to OMS 2.33, Social Issues Associated with
Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects (issued in February 1980), and OMS
2.34, Tribal People in Bank-Financed Projects (issued in February 1982). In October
1986, Operational Policy Note (OPN) 10.08, Operations Policy Issues in the Treatment
of Involuntary Resettlement in Bank-Financed Projects, reviewed the Bank's record on
involuntary resettlement and gave further guidance in the area. Other OPNs were issued
at about the same time: OPNs 11.01 on pesticides (March 1985), 11.2 on wildlands (June
1986), and 11.03 on the management of cultural property (September 1986).
10.   Post-1987 Operational Manual. Beginning in 1987, many of these documents
were revised as Operational Directives (ODs). OMS 2.36 became OD 4.00, Annex A,
Environmental Assessment, in September 1989; and in October 1991, it became OD 4.01.
OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples, was issued in September 1991, replacing the OMS on
tribal peoples. OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, issued in June 1990, replaced the
earlier documents on that subject. OD 4.03, Agricultural Pest Management, was issued in
June 1992. During this period, as social and environmental issues were increasingly
understood to be central to the development paradigm, they assumed a greater profile in
Bank policies. This period also coincided with the growing interest in Bank-supported
projects by civil society, which was often critical of the Bank for not observing its own
policies in some high-profile projects. The perceived disconnect between the Bank's
policy statements and their actual implementation was very large, mirroring broader
concerns about the quality of Bank operations that were detailed in the Wapenhans
Report3 and other internal and external assessments.
11.   Conversions to OP/BP Format. Part of the Bank's response to these and other
concerns was to introduce a new kind of operational statement, designed to distinguish
Board-approved policies from mandatory procedures and advisory material-Operational
Policies, Bank Procedures, and Good Practice (OP/BP/GP) statements. The aim was not
to change the policy content of the statements, but to present it in a more precise way-
distinguishing among Board-approved policies, mandatory procedures, and advisory
material-so that Bank staff, borrowers, and external parties would know exactly what
the Bank requires. The ODs, which had been issued in the late 1980s and early 1990s
(and the OPNs and OMSs that remained from the 1980s), had not had to meet the test of
legal exactitude that was now required, engendering much debate both inside and outside
the Bank about what each clause was meant to say. And, of course, the intervening years
had seen changes in thinking and practice that also needed to be taken into account. The
bottom line is that for the safeguard policies, the conversion process has not been simple
and is still ongoing. Some of the environmental and social ODs have been converted to
the new format-for example, OD 4.01, Environmental Assessment, became OP/BP 4.01
3  See Effective Implementation Key to Development Impact, Report of the World Bank's Portfolio
Management Task Force, November 3, 1992 (the Wapenhans Report)



Institutional Issues  9
and was issued in January 1999. Some of the earlier documents, like OPN 11.2 on
wildlands (which became OP/BP 4.04, Natural Habitats, in September 1995) went
directly to the OP/BP format without having been ODs first. The remaining safeguard
policy statements are scheduled for conversion in FY01; these are OD 4.20, Indigenous
Peoples, OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, and OPN 1 1.03, Cultural Property.
B. Environmental Assessment and Social Policies
12.    As noted above, environmental and social impacts were historically closely linked
in the Bank's portfolio-for example, in large dam projects. As a result, when the Bank
adopted the policy on environmental assessment in 1989, many saw environmental
screening, categorization, and assessment as the umbrella for the full spectrum  of
environmental and social policies. During the 1990s, however, the portfolio evolved
away from the kinds of projects in which resettlement and environment issues were
closely intertwined. And at the same time social development came into its own as a
development priority 4 The    confluence  of these  two   changes has meant that
environmental assessment has become less and less appropriate as an umbrella vehicle
for categorizing projects with major social issues but relatively minor environmental
issues.5
13.    Environmental Assessment. This evolution is most evident in the progression of
the EA instructions. The 1984 OMS 2.36 had explicitly linked the social and
environmental impacts of projects. In the 1991 OD 4.01, the link was still recognized, but
was much less explicit: para. 1 of Annex E stated that "the classification of each proposed
project depends on the type, location, sensitivity, and scale of the proposed project, as
well as the nature and magnitude of its potential impacts." A footnote to this statement
defined "sensitivity" as referring to "issues such as impacts that are irreversible, affect
vulnerable ethnic minorities, or involve involuntary resettlement." The 1999 conversion
to the OP/BP format states that "a proposed project is classified as Category A if it is
likely to have significant adverse environmental impacts that are sensitive, diverse, or
unprecedented"; and the related footnote 10 explains that "a potential impact is
considered 'sensitive' if it may be irreversible (e g., lead to loss of major natural habitat)
or raise issues covered by OD 4.20, Indigenous Peoples; OP 4.04, Natural Habitats; OP
4.11, Safeguarding Cultural Property in Bank-Financed Projects (forthcoming); or OP
4.12, Involuntary Resettlement (forthcoming)." This has been read by some to suggest
that the existence of resettlement issues automatically makes a project an A. However,
current Bank practice is quite different, interpreting footnote 10 as: "A potential impact is
considered 'sensitive'...if it may raise [environmental] issues covered by...." In other
words, a resettlement project is considered environmentally sensitive only if the
resettlement raises environmental issues.
4   See Task Group Report on Social Development and Results on the Ground (SecM96-1063), October
16, 1996; and Follow-up to the Recommendations of the Social Development Task Force (CODE97-
I 1), February 24, 1997
However, this ongoing shift is not without controversy Indeed, the balance between social and
environmental sensitivities was an important factor in the debate within the Bank on the environmental
category of the China Western Poverty Project. Hence, from an institutional perspective, critical issues
are the Bank's operating rules and standards-both what they are and what they should be



10   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
14.   Evolving Bank Practice on Environmental Categorization. Operations with
important social issues but relatively less important environmental issues are now
classified as Category B. For these projects, the safeguard focus has thus shifted from EA
to the resettlement plan. Indeed, an ESSD analysis last year showed that the majority of
operations with resettlement are environmental Bs, not As; this practice is the same
across all Regions; and it reflects the changing nature of the portfolio and particularly the
kinds of projects for which resettlement is an issue.6 A Management note to CODE,
attaching the draft conversion of OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, into OP/BP 4.12,
highlighted the growing portfolio with substantial resettlement but more limited
environmental impacts. It suggested the need to formally "de-link" resettlement from
OP/BP 4.0l.7 CODE's reaction was cautious, discouraging staff from moving too quickly
on the "de-linking" clarification.8
15.   Current Draft OP/BP 4.12. Meanwhile, the changing nature of Bank projects
involving resettlement is reflected in the evolution of the Bank's operational policy
statements on resettlement. Para. 20 of OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement, which was
issued in June 1990, states: "The screening process for an environmental assessment
(EA) normally classifies projects involving involuntary resettlement as Category A."
However, reflecting the evolving practice during the 1990s, the latest draft of OP/BP
4.12, Involuntary Resettlement, contains no mention of any such presumption. Nor were
any issues related to the environmental categorization raised in last year's consultations
with external stakeholders.
16.   Board Discussion of Category B Projects. One shareholder has frequently
requested Board discussions of Category B projects with resettlement, arguing that
resettlement per se should imply an A categorization. One example came on January 21,
1999, when the Board discussed the China Anning Valley Agricultural Development
Project, which was categorized as a B. During the discussion the task team leader
defended the categorization on the grounds that the environmental impacts of the
proposed project would be limited. This position was supported by Regional
environmental staff, the Social Development Sector Board Chair, and the Environment
Sector Chair, acting for ESDVP. The staff clarifications were welcomed, and it was noted
that they appeared to fully address the issues raised.
17.   From Environmental to Safeguard Assessmient. Clearly, the current policy on
environmental assessment needs clarification. Neither experts nor practitioners believe
that social impacts should be analyzed through environmental assessment.9 All agree that
social impacts should be analyzed through tools designed for the task. To this end,
following initial consultations with the Executive Directors, Management intends to
develop a proposal that would broaden the current approach to project screening and
categorization, looking at safeguard policy and impact, rather than exclusively at
environmental impact (see Box 2). On this approach, a project would be screened and
6 See Inventory of Projects with Involuntary Resettlement (CODE99-48/1), June 15, 1999.
7  See Draft OP/BP 4 12, Involuntary Resettlement (CODE9948), June 7, 1999
s  See Draft OP/BP 4 12 Involuntary Resettlement, Report from CODE (CODE99-78), October 6, 1999
9 There also are issues with respect to the analysis of alternatives and classification of project
components that need to be clarified



Institutional Issues  II
categorized as a "safeguard A" or "safeguard B," for example, and all such projects
would follow the same standards for consultation and disclosure as are currently required
for environmental A or B projects.
Box 2. Safeguard Assessment
Under the proposal, projects would be categorized as A, B, or C, depending on the seriousness of their
impacts when judged against the seven environmental, social, and cultural safeguards
Safeguard categorization
* Environmental Assessment
* Pest Management
* Forestry
* Natural Habitats
* Involuntary Resettlement
* Indigenous Peoples
* Cultural Property
A safeguard assessment would be required for Category A or B projects, focusing on the particular
safeguard(s) (environment, indigenous peoples, resettlement, and so on) that the project raises All Bank
disclosure and consultation principles that currently apply to EA would apply to the screening and
assessment process, this is in line with the proposals of the Disclosure Policy Review. A separate category
(Fl) would continue to be used for projects involving financial intermediaries, with each subproject
screened and categorized as a safeguard A, B, or C
18.    A New Social Assessmnent Mandate? Introducing a safeguard assessment would
correct the problems with the fragmented and inconsistent nature of our environmental
and social policies. But there still is an issue of balance between them. For the
environment, we have separate policies on pest management, forestry, and natural
habitats as well as environmental assessment, which looks across the various
environmental impacts and seeks ways to minimize and mitigate them. On the social side,
however, we have operational polices on involuntary resettlement and indigenous
peoples, but no overarching framework for a broad social assessment that would look
across these and other social impacts, with a view to identifying ways to minimize and
mitigate adverse impacts. Assessing whether our current safeguard policies add up to the
right environmental/social policy balance is thus an issue-but one that must be
addressed with great caution. Adding a new social assessment requirement that would go
beyond current substantive requirements on resettlement and indigenous peoples would
be a large undertaking, with major strategic and resource implications for the Bank and
its borrowers; This topic warrants thorough discussion by the Executive Directors in due
course.
C. Disclosure Policy
19.    The intricacies of the Bank's disclosure policy are another source of complexity
and confusion. As Box 3 shows, the rules are different for the disclosure of
environmental assessment, depending on whether the project is an A or B-with
differences between IDA Bs and IBRD Bs. And the rules are even less straightforward
for resettlement plans and indigenous peoples development plans. This complicates the
task of complying with disclosure requirements and undermines effective
implementation.



12    Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
Box 3. Disclosure Requirements for Safeguard Policies
Disclosure Policy Requirement
Document             Format        Placement                   Timing
Category A EA            Separate       Freestanding     Disclosed locally and received by
document                       Bank before appraisal. Once received
by Bank, sent to InfoShop unless, in
exceptional circumstances, borrower
objects
IBRD Category B EA       Separate       Annexed to the   If a separate document, once received
document or   PID              by the Bank, sent to InfoShop unless,
section in                     in exceptional circumstances,
PAD                            borrower objects.
IDA Category B EA        Separate       Annexed to the   If a separate document, disclosed
document or   PID              locally and received by Bank before
section in                     appraisal Once received by Bank,
PAD                            sent to InfoShop unless, in excepttonal
circumstances, borrower objects.
Resettlement plan and    "Incorporate"  Unclear. in EA   When EA is disclosed.
IPDP (with separate EA)  in EA          or annexed to
EA
Resettlement plan and
IPDP (with no separate   ------------------------------Disclosure not required------------------------------
EA, e.g , some Category B)
20.    Environmental Assessment. The rules for disclosure of EAs for Category A
projects are the clearest. There must be a satisfactory freestanding EA report; it must be
disclosed locally and received by the Bank prior to appraisal; it must be then sent to the
InfoShop.10 For Category B projects, there may or may not be a freestanding EA report;
if there is, depending on whether the project is IDA or IBRD, the EA may or may not
need to be received by appraisal. In essence, an EA report for an IDA-funded Category B
project is treated in the same way as a Category A project: both have to be released
locally and submitted to the InfoShop. Ultimately, however, the difference between the
IDA and IBRD Category B requirements is small-the Bank must receive the EA report
for an IDA project before appraisal begins, while it may receive the EA report for an
IBRD project at any time. Hence, in the interests of clarity and simplicity, it would be
desirable to be able to treat all Bank-funded Category B projects in the same way,
regardless of the funding source. In addition, it would be desirable for EAs for Category
B projects-whether IBRD or IDA-to be separate documents (however short), rather
than attached to Project Information Documents (PIDs), and to be catalogued as such.
These changes, discussed in the Disclosure Policy Review, 1 would require Board
approval.
0   Unless in exceptional circumstances, the borrower objects Bank policy dictates that for IDA projects,
project processing stops in such situations. For IBRD projects, continuation of project processing is
decided by the Board.
1 See Disclosure Policy Review (CODE 2000-13), April 24, 2000. The most recent version of the
disclosure policy was published as a booklet, The World Bank Policy on the Disclosure of Information
(Washington, D C   World Bank), 1994. The presumption of disclosure is in the original



Institutional Issues  13
21.    Resettlement Plans and Indigenous Peoples Development Plans. The disclosure
requirements for these reports12 are closely linked to the classification of projects for
EAs, but are very unclear. At present, there is flexibility: EA reports are to "incorporate"
the resettlement plans and the IPDPs, "wherever relevant."' 3 However, this flexibility
leads to confusion as to whether these development plans must be included within the
main EA report, or whether they can be attached as an annex. Recent practice with IPDPs
has been to build them into social assessments, which provide an iterative process to
determine project objectives, identify all stakeholders, identify social impacts and
opportunities, develop mitigation plans, and undertake participatory monitoring for
results. One practical difficulty that emerges from this confusion is that even though the
plans may have been "disclosed," they may not be easy to find because they are neither in
EAs-where many InfoShop users expect to find them-nor logged in separately, which
would make them easier to locate. In many cases, recent practice for Category A and B
projects has been to prepare EA reports and these other plans separately, but with
appropriate collaboration and cross-referencing, and then to disclose them like EA
reports, accordmg to the project category. This practice would seem to meet the spirit of
the disclosure policy, which should be amended for clarity. Another practical difficulty is
that when a Category B project does not result in a separate EA report,14 there is no
requirement to disclose the resettlement plans or lPDPs, and no easy way for interested
persons to determine whether such a plan has been prepared.
22.    Management Actions. Reflecting these concerns, Management proposes to
harmonize the Bank's disclosure requirements governing the assessments associated with
safeguard policies, per the discussion in the Disclosure Policy Review. Meanwhile,
ESSD's Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit (QACU) has recently added to its
training program a component specifically addressing the existing disclosure
requirements. In February 2000, ESSD and ISG issued a form on which staff clearly
specify where the EA report, resettlement plan, or IPDP is located in the package of
project documents. ESSD also is designing systems for EA reports, resettlement plans,
and IPDPs to prevent further project processing if the InfoShop is unable to confirmn
receipt of the required document. These features-along with compliance monitoring
arrangements similar to systems under development for PIDs-are expected to be in
place by September 2000.
Administrative Manual Statements (1985 and 1989) See also BP 17 50, Disclosure of Operational
Information, September 1993, and Expanding Access to Bank Information (SecM93-927), August 31,
1993.
12  Resettlement plans are required by OD 4 30, Involuntaty Resettlement; see also Draft OP 4 12,
Involuntary Resettlement (CODE99-48), June 7, 1999 Indigenous peoples development plans are
required by OD 4 20, Indigenous Peoples Draft OP 4.12, para 20, states that resettlement instruments
must be disclosed as a condition of appraisal Draft BP 4 10, Indigenous Peoples, paras 12-16, states
that a draft indigenous peoples action plan (IPAP) or strategy must be sent to the Bank, approved, and
disclosed If these become freestanding requirements, then the discussion of their context within the
EA process becomes less important.
13 The World Bank Policy on the Disclosure of Information, footnote 10
14 OP 4.01, Environmental Assessment, does not require a separate EA report for Category B projects
Instead, it states that "the findings and results of Category B EA are described in the project
documentation (Project Appraisal Document and Project Information Document)."



14   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
RIU. 1[MPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARD POLICIES
23.   Policies, no matter how carefully drafted, can be subject to very different
interpretations and standards of implementation. Thus it is essential to establish clearly
what the minimum standards are, who is in charge of interpretive work, what their roles
and accountabilities are, and what resources are required both for carrying out the work
and for meeting the standards. These compliance issues have been central to
Management's focus throughout the Bank's renewal process.
24.   Focus on Implementation. This section summarizes ESSD's standard-setting
work and then turns to compliance issues. It traces the Bank's "journey" from highly
decentralized Regional accountability to greater empowerment of Regional ESSD units,
and greater recognition of the role of the ESSD Sector Boards and Anchors in setting
standards for compliance and validating quality assurance. It summarizes the evolving
Board and institutional dialogue on compliance over the last two years and outlines
recent changes in the accountability structure to "rebalance the matrix." It also
summarizes the available information on resources devoted to compliance with the
safeguard policies.
A. l[nterpretation of Policies
25.   Judgment in interpreting the safeguard policies is essential. Given the many
different situations in which Bank policies must be applied, there must be an authoritative
source of guidance on their interpretation. Every project comes with a set of
considerations that must be taken into account during the environmental and social
screening process. What is the scale of the environmental and social impacts-both in
magnitude and severity? And what is their significance-both to directly affected
stakeholders and to those with an indirect interest? As it is very difficult to specify
everything in advance, a critical question for operational governance is the degree of staff
discretion in applying judgment, and the source and amount of guidance provided.
Setting standards and interpreting policies is clearly central to the job of the ESSD
Network.
26.   Safeguard Technical Committee. To oversee the standard-setting process, in
FY99 ESSD established a Safeguard Technical Committee comprising senior specialists
for each of the safeguard policies. Staff serving on the committee are responsible for
providing advice on the application and interpretation of each of the policies, momtoring
the compliance of the Bank's lending portfolio, advising senior management on specific
compliance issues, and serving as a focal point for external and internal inquiries. Recent
portfolio compliance reviews include a Bankwide review of environmental categorization
(under OP 4.01), and compliance reviews of OP 4.37, Safety of Dams, OP 4.09, Pest
Management, and OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement. These internal reviews offer
guidance to Regional staff on priority issues and promote the consistent application of the
policies across Regions. The Safeguard Technical Committee also oversees preparation
of training materials, supports QAG in its desk reviews of quality at entry and
supervision, and works closely with QACU.



Institutional Issues  15
27.   ESSD Sourcebooks. An important source of guidance to operational staff is the
Bank's sourcebooks on safeguard policies-in particular the Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook, the electronic Resettlement Guidebook, and the Participation Sourcebook.15
They offer technical advice on a wide range of issues and are used by Bank staff,
borrowers, cofinanciers, and suppliers of goods and services under Bank projects. The
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (including 26 updates) and the electronic
Resettlement Guidebook have recently been made available on CD-ROMs and widely
distributed to headquarters and field staff, as well as to clients.
28.   Staff Training. Safeguard training is key to ensuring that operational staff are
familiar with the safeguard policies and their interpretation in project-specific contexts. A
new training program on safeguards was developed in FY99 and launched in FY00. To
date, 33 courses have been delivered, reaching more than 450 operational staff. Safeguard
training is included in World Bank Institute (WBI) hub training, and by the end of FY00
will have been delivered in all Regions. Safeguard sessions are part of the ESSD annual
fora, and are included in orientation programs for new staff. Training on interpretation
and implementation of safeguard policies is also delivered to clients through active
programs in all Regions, particularly in AFR, MNA, and EAP. In addition, to facilitate
compliance, ESSD has developed a reference matrix that clarifies the objectives and
triggers of each of the safeguards and summarizes their consultation and disclosure
requirements.
B. Compliance with Policies
29.   As noted earlier, the focus on compliance is an initiative of fairly recent origin, a
key part of operational policy reform, which was launched with the articulation of the
safeguard policies in late 1997. The evolving management matrix-and in particular the
roles of the ESSD Anchors and Sector Boards vis-A-vis Regional staff in assessing
compliance-has been much debated over the past few years, with successive measures
to increase ESSD responsibility and accountability for compliance. This section briefly
recaps that debate.
30.    Who Does Whlat? Responsibility and accountability for compliance with the
Bank's environmental and social requirements have long been vested in the Regions. OD
4.01, Environmental Assessment, issued in 1991, assigned specific duties to the Bank's
task managers and the REDs (Regional Environment Divisions), and set out a purely
advisory role for the Environment Department. OP/BP 4.01, the successor policy
statements to OD 4.01 issued in January 1999, assigned to the task team the role formerly
assigned to the task manager, and assigned the responsibilities of the RED to the
Regional Environment Sector Unit (RESU). BP 4.01 confirned the continuing advisory
role of the Environment Department but also set out a new responsibility for compliance:
"ENV carries out project audits to help ensure compliance with the Bank's EA policy,
5 Environmental Assessment Sourcebook World Bank, 1991, and The World Bank Participation
Sourcebook, World Bank, 1996 The Resettlemnent Guidebook is available from the InfoShop on CD-
ROM, as well as on the Bank's intranet See also Pollution Prevention and Abatenient Handbook
World Bank, 1998; and Toward Cleaner Production, World Bank, 1998



16   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
and it conducts periodic reviews of the Bank's EA experience to identify and disseminate
good practice and develop further guidance in this area."
31.    Clarification of Accountabilities. Though the rules were clarified by OP/BP 4.01,
there had been a period of flux in early 1998 about the roles and accountabilities for
safeguard policies under matrix management, as Management discussed with CODE on
several occasions. On April 29, 1998, for example, during the CODE meeting on OED's
report on resettlement,16 the Managing Director, Operations, said that the Regions would
remain responsible for compliance with the safeguard policies; dedicated resources would
be provided to the Regional environmental and social units, to the ENV, SDV, and RDV
Anchors, and to LEG, to strengthen their review, advisory, and monitoring activities
through, among other things, project audits; ESSD would provide increased training; and
Management would increase its oversight.'7 kmmediately following the CODE meeting,
the Managing Directors issued an official memorandum to Operational Vice Presidents
(OVPs) launching the new compliance system. 18
32.    Continuing Debate. Over the next 18 months there was much internal debate
about the appropriate balance of responsibilities and accountabilities across Regional
units, Sector Boards, and Network Anchors. This debate also involved CODE, in the
context of the discussion of OED reports and the Management plan to consult externally
on the draft OP/BP 4.12, Involuntary Resettlement. CODE and OED have generally taken
the view that central Network clearance is essential for the effectiveness of the Bank's
safeguard policies. 19 CODE's note to the Executive Directors stressed the need to
strengthen the Bank's quality assurance and risk management processes. They welcomed
Management's commitment to implementing the safeguard and fiduciary policies and
confirmed that CODE will continue to monitor the impact of matrix management on
accountability for quality.20
33.    Rebalancing the Matrix. The latest round of discussions on matrix rebalancing
commenced in October 1999, when the Managing Directors communicated to all
operational staff the broad approach being followed.2' More recently, the Managing
Directors endorsed the recommendations of the Joint Regional/Network Action Team to
enhance Regional/Sector Board collaboration on quality and compliance. These
recommendations focus on procedures for identifying operations subject to high
safeguard risks and for ensuring ESSD Sector Board sign-off on them. Overall, the
16 See Recent Experience with Involuntary Resettlement (CODE 98-20), April 20, 1998.
17 See Operational Policy Reform and Compliance, statement by Caio Koch-Weser (CODE98-25), May
6, 1998.
18 See note to OVPs, "Operational Policy Reform Compliance with Safeguard Policies," Sven
Sandstrom and Caio Koch-Weser, May 20, 1998
19 See 1999 Annual Report on Operations Evaluation (R99-217), November 23, 1999 See also Draft
Management Response to 1999 Annual Report on Operations Evaluation (CODE99-98), December 15,
1999; and Managingfor Quality and Development Effectiveness (SecM2000-10), January 10, 2000.
20 See Meeting of Executive Directors - January 11, 2000 Managing Development Effectiveness An
Overview of FY99 Apex Evaluation Reports - Chairperson's Statement (CODE2000-1), January 10,
2000
21 See note to operations staff, "Making the Matrix Work Better," Sven Sandstrom and Shengman Zhang,
October 12, 1999.



Institutional Issues  17
matrix rebalancing exercise recognized some deficiencies of the previous system-lack
of common corporate practices, weak risk management, and insufficient independence of
environmental staff in applying judgment. Three actions were therefore taken to
implement the new structure:
*     Off-the-top resources for compliance monitoring, independent of country budgets,
have been allocated in all Regions.
*     New   roles  and  responsibilities  for  compliance  have  been  defined:
(a) environmental and social development units in the Regions are now
responsible for categorization, and (b) the ESSD Sector Boards are now
independently responsible for the consistency of ratings, and certification of
actual compliance for high risk-projects.
*     New roles and responsibilities have been assigned to the ESSD Anchors,
primarily to support the Sector Boards in providing corporate sign-off for the
high-risk projects, and other safeguard support work, including clarification of the
standards to be applied.
Management is keeping a close watch on all of these measures to ensure their adequacy.
Particular attention is being given to implementation, including ensuring that firewalls are
built into the compliance system, to minimize actual and perceived conflicts of interest in
compliance monitoring and management.
C. Resources for Safeguard Policies
34.   The May 1998 note from the Managing Directors to the OVPs on the safeguard
policies also gave instructions on resources for compliance. It stated that resources were
to be provided to Regional "environmental and social units, and to the ENV, SDV, and
RDV Anchors, and LEG, to strengthen their review, advisory, and monitoring activities."
It instructed ESSD to "strengthen support for quality assurance, including technical
support for project preparation and implementation, and advice on policy issues.. .and to
disseminate good practice information to Bank Group staff and clients, and identify,
publicize, and reward best practice."22
35.   Resources for Safeguard Policies. Most spending for safeguard policy
compliance is embedded in individual task budgets. And with current systems it is
difficult to separate spending on compliance from other project expenses. That said, staff
are very much aware of the need to focus on compliance, and rising project costs reflect
this increased focus. Indeed, in February 2000, the Task Force on OP/BP Compliance
presented its preliminary finding that the cost of improved compliance with safeguard
policies (including upgraded supervision) would translate into an annual incremental
need of $15 million for the next two fiscal years, falling to $8 million thereafter. The
detailed allocations and sources of funding are still been worked out, but part of the
increment is expected to be provided "off the top" for enhanced compliance assessment
22 See Sandstrom and Koch-Weser note to OVPs, op cit



18   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
and monitoring, and for tasks for which risks are perceived to be high or there is a
backlog of unmet supervision obligations. The other part is expected to be for increased
budgets for lending tasks as well as for safeguard ESW tasks in country programs. For
the former, the Regional estimates for FYO1 so far total $4.8 million; including the
funding for the ESSD Anchor, the amount specifically earmarked for compliance
activities in FYO1 totals $6.8 million.23. For the latter, most Regions have included
additional funds in Work Program Agreements as part of their efforts to mainstream
accountability for safeguard (and fiduciary) compliance (thereby contributing to the rise
in unit costs of project preparation and supervision). However, as of this writing, the
breakdowns are not yet available. Careful Management attention will be needed to ensure
that the resources provided are adequate and that they are spent as intended.
36.    Management Actions. The Managing Directors are giving special attention to the
implementation of the safeguard (and fiduciary) policies, which are a central topic of
their business reviews with the OVPs. The Regions and Networks are closely monitoring
their safeguard programs, particularly their high-risk tasks. All of the Regions regularly
monitor their high-risk portfolios and projects under preparation, with periodic reviews
by the RVPs. ESSD, as noted earlier, is keeping a close watch on compliance issues,
through its anchors, Sector Boards, and newly recruited technical expertise in QACU.
Centrally, system improvements in SAP to monitor all safeguard compliance
expenditures are being developed.
IV. COUNTRY FOcus
37.    These increases in the attention that Management has paid to accountabilities and
resources for compliance with the safeguard policies have coincided with the stronger
recognition of country ownership of policies and institutions as the critical ingredient of
sustained development impact. This section briefly reviews the evolution of these
developments and the implications for the Bank's safeguard policies.
A. Increased Country Focus
38.    For many years, the Bank's focus has been shifting toward a more integrated and
comprehensive country-based approach to development assistance. This broader
approach reflects the findings from  research on aid effectiveness,24 as well as the
accumulated lessons of experience analyzed by OED25 and QAG26-all of which point to
the crucial importance of country ownership and coordinated donor support of the
23 Data based on business plan submissions received by Corporate Resource Management from units.
24 See, for example, Dollar, David, and Lant Pritchett, Assessing Aid: What Works, What Doesn 't, And
Why, World Bank Policy Research Report, 1998
25 See 1999 Annual Review of Development Effectiveness, OED, November 1999 See also Johnson, John
H, and Sulaiman S. Wasfy, Borrower Ownership of Adjustment Programs and the Political Economy
of Reform, World Bank Discussion Paper, OED, 1993.
26 See Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (ARPP)-Fiscal Year 1999 (R99-212), November 18,
1999; and Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (ARPP)-Fiscal Year 1998 (R8-281), November
24, 1998 See also Supervision Quality in FY99 A QAG Asses jment (CODE99-81), October 14, 1999,
and Supervision Quality in FY98 A QAG Assessment (RSA2) (CODE98-53), September 17, 1998



Institutional Issues  19
country's program. This evidence underpins the shift in the development assistance
paradigm from the development project to the country as the unit of account.
39.   Role of CAS. The CAS, introduced in 1990, has helped Bank programs to
internediate countrywide challenges into project-level interventions. As the latest CAS
Retrospective27 demonstrates, CASs increasingly focus on country ownership and
commitment: some 80 percent of the FY98-99 CASs contain a substantial discussion of
government priorities (compared with 60 percent of FY97-98 CASs), and all CASs are
now prepared in consultation with the government. Almost all CASs base the
development of a broad integrated program of Bank support on an assessment of the
overall social and political economy context. Diagnosis of the overall situation, dialogue
with the government, and straight talk about remaining differences increasingly
characterize good CASs.
40.    CDF Pilots and PRSPs. The pilots for implementing the CDF and the PRSP
program, although in their early stages, also reflect the shift to a comprehensive country-
focused approach to development that goes beyond individual projects. The CDF
explicitly relies on strong country ownership of a single comprehensive program of
development that can be supported by donors and partners. It encourages the use of
instruments and approaches that emphasize long-term goals in entire sectors or groups of
sectors, rather than one-off or short-term activities. PRSPs, which are grounded in the
CDF principles, are prepared and fully owned by the government and are a reflection of
its own poverty reduction priorities that cut across many sectors.
B. Trends in Lending
41.   In parallel with the increase in country focus, Bank lending itself has undergone
important changes in composition and orientation.28 It has evolved away from hardware
to software-from projects that finance bricks and mortar, to programs that address the
policy and institutional foundations of a healthy and stable private sector and social
development. Investment In the power sector, for example, which accounted for 21
percent of Bank lending in 1980, is today largely in the private sector and thus accounts
for only 2 percent of Bank lending; and that 2 percent focuses much more on public
policies and institutions than on machinery and equipment. By contrast, lending for
multisector, social sector, and public sector issues has expanded more than fourfold-
from 9 percent of lending in 1980 to over 40 percent in 1999.
42.   Sectoral and Programmatic Investment Lending. Sectoral and programmatic
lending approaches are also becoming increasingly common and have now been applied
27 See Country Assistance Strategies Retrospective and Implications and Note on "Enhancing Board
Discussion of Country Assistance Strategies " (R99-228/2), May 22, 2000 See also Country Assistance
Strategies Retrospective and Outlook (SecM98-242), March 30, 1998, Enhancing Board Discussion
of Country Assistance Strategies (R98-199) July 16, 1998; Country Assistance Strategies Board
Seminar (R97-73), February 13, 1997, and Enhancing the Board's Discussion of Countiy Assistance
Strategies (R97-73), April 18, 1997
28 See Lending Retrospective Volume and Instruments Issues Paper (SecM99-512/1), November 16,
1999.



20   Country Focus and Safeguard Polhcies
to a variety of lending instruments in a wide range of sectors in all six Regions." For
example, in the 1990s, the Africa Region introduced the Sector Investment Program (SIP)
to help address development issues comprehensively and coherently, in cooperation with
other donors. The SIP adapted a traditional lending instrument, the sector investment and
maintenance loan (SIM), to support longer-term reform programs owned by the
government. Among sectoral lending approaches, some simply combine several "retail"
investment operations under one "wholesale" umbrella. Others go beyond a collection of
individual projects and take an integrated approach to investments, policies, and
institution building in the sector as a whole, and may involve financing a slice of an
entire govemment program, often in partnership with other donors. They may also
involve a series of operations adaptable over time to changing country circumstances, as
in the case of adaptable program loans. With all these approaches, experience to date
reinforces the importance of country ownership and commitment, and the emphasis on
building local capacity.
C. Safeguard Policies and Programmatic Lending
43.    The safeguard policies were initially designed to apply to specific investment
projects. However, like other externally promoted initiatives, when applied exclusively at
the individual project level, they may do little to build sustainable borrower capacity to
manage programs. In other words, their broader development impact is limited. A critical
question is thus how to balance the need to ensure Bank's due diligence in the operations
we finance with capacity building to maximize development impact? How can we best
promote and support systemic improvements in environmental and social performance at
the sector or country level-through sectoral and programmatic approaches, inter alia?
44.    Sectoral Environmental Assessment. The challenge is to see how the Bank's
safeguard policies can be scaled up and applied to sectorwide or countrywide programs.
To a large extent, the solution already exists-through the sectoral environmental
assessment (SEA), which is explicitly recognized in OP 4.01. While project-specific EAs
focus on the potential impacts of specific investments and often treat sector-specific
strategic issues as given, SEAs provide sectorwide environmental analysis before
investment priorities have been determined. They also support integrating environmental
concerns into long-term development and investment planning.30 SEAs have most often
been used in the context of sector investment programs involving multiple subprojects.
But there are also several examples of operations with a programmatic and sectoral focus
in which a SEA has been carried out, in line with OP 4.01.3' More recently, the focus has
29 The following projects provide examples: Mozambique Agncultural Sector Public Expenditure
Program (1999), India Andhra Pradesh State Highways Project (1997), Tanzania Health Sector
Development Project (2000), Algeria Social Safety Net Support Project (1996), Armenia: Education
Financing and Management Reform Project (1997), China State Farm Commercialization Project
(1998), India Third National Highways Project (2000), Mexico  Agricultural Productivity
Improvement Project (1998), and Zambia Health Sector Support Project (1995)
30 See Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Update No.4 Sectoral Environmental Assessments, World
Bank, 1993
31 Examples include the Thailand Power Sector EA (Report No E235, July 2, 1998) undertaken as part
of the Thailand EGAT Investment Program Support Project (R98-223), August 25, 1998.



Institutional Issues  21
been on assessing environmental capacity and compliance with safeguards at the country
level.32 OP 4.01 also applies to sectoral adjustment loans (SECALs);33 a recent example
is the Indonesia Water Sector Adjustment Loan to support water policy improvements. 4
45.    Adaptation of Safeguard Policies to Programmatic Lendiig. ESSD and OPS are
leading efforts to explore how existing safeguard policies can best be applied to
programmatic investment lending,35 using the SEA and other sectoral or countrywide
safeguard assessments. The issue is to move beyond safeguarding the expenditures
associated with specific Bank-financed projects to supporting systemic improvements in
the borrower's own safeguard policies and institutions. This will involve a much greater
emphasis on capacity building and-taking ownership seriously-a shift of primary
accountability for monitoring and evaluating compliance from the Bank to the borrower
(see Box 4). Clearly the SEA-and equivalent sectoral or countrywide assessments for
the other safeguard policies-holds the key. But the critical issue is standards. Setting
them too low would have the obvious problem of not ensuring the desired performance.
On the other hand, setting standards that are too high would also be counterproductive;
too few countries would pass, and we would remain in a project world, forgoing the
sustained development impact that broad country ownership can bring. The challenge
will be to specify the standards for countries' safeguard policies and institutional
arrangements-and of support for programs to strengthen countries' institutions-that
will warrant the prudent and effective use of programmatic approaches.
32 The forthcoming Philippines Portfolio Review is a countrywide exercise examining risks in projects
under implementation
33 Since January 1999, there have been 29 SECALs, of which 2 were categorized as Bs and the remainder
as Cs, operations rated C do not require any further EA action. OP 4 01 does not apply to structural
adjustment operations
34 See Indonesia Water Sector Adjustment Loan Project (R99-65), April 27, 1999, and Indonesia Water
Sector Adjustment Loan Project, Sectoral Environmental Assessment (Report No E267), March 1,
1999, available at http /www-wds.worldbank org/
35 See Lending Retrospective Volume and Instruments Issues Paper (SecM99-512/1), November 16,
1999 See also CDF Internal Guidance Note (SecM99-244), April 12, 1999, and PRSP Internal
Guidance Note (R99-239/1), January 19, 2000



22    Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
Box 4. Capacity Building for Resettlement
The Bank's resettlement capacity-building efforts have bcen most notable in South and East Asia (the
Regions with almost 80 percent of the resettlement in the Bank's portfolio), though more recently we
have extended them to other Regions of the Bank Since 1995, we have carried out more than 50
resettlement workshops for project staff and policyimakers in about 15 countries. Our efforts have been
most concentrated in India (about 25 wvorkshops), China (10), Vietnam (4), Bangladesh (3), Brazil (3),
and the Philippines (2)
We also have collaborated with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) on a number of capacity-building
initiatives Many of our workshops have been organized jointly, and we are also working together on a
major initiative to improve resettlement policy and institutional frameworks in seven Asian countries
(Bangladesh, China, Indonesia, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, and Vietnam).
Starting in 1993 with an annual headquarters-based training program, we have increasingly decentralized
the resettlement capacity-building initiative Most of our current efforts are concentrated on promoting in-
country capacity-building programs. Between 1995 and 1999, we have conducted almost 40 such
programs, most in Asia. The latest element of our capacity-building effort in India is a resettlement
"distance learning program," to be conducted in collaboration with a university in New Delhi. This
program, which will be open to local project staff, consultants, and students, will have a positive
development impact far beyond the projects the Bank supports in India.
Local project staff working on resettlement issues are encouraged to participate in Bank-sponsored
training initiatives, where they interact with staff working on similar issues in other projects. This has
promoted a better understanding of resettlement issues among project staff, which, in turn, has helped
improve resettlement implementation substantially For example, interaction of Bank and borrower staff
in the India Transport Sector resettlement discussions led to innovative solutions for dealing with the
resettlement of squatters and encroachers, otherwise a very difficult issue. Similarly, the use of local
consultants trained in Bank capacity-building programs in China has significantly improved the quality of
resettlement plans and implementation For example, one of the earlier projects in the transport sector, the
Shanghai-Zhejiang Expressway Project, faced considerable delays in processing because borrower staff
lacked understanding of resettlement issues; however, more recent transport projects are prepared without
any delays on account of resettlement.
Resettlement capacity in the Bank's field offices has also been strengthened The number of resettlement
staff in field offices has grown from 3 in 1995 to 20 today This growth has also had a major impact on
improving the quality of resettlement preparation and outcomes on the ground
46.    Harmonization of Policies. This discussion also highlights the need to agree on
standards more broadly with clients and other donors. Work is ongoing to explore how
the Bank and its partners might achieve convergence in the requirements, interpretation,
and application of their safeguard policies. Action on this front will help to reduce the
costs and increase the overall effectiveness of development assistance.36 The multilateral
development banks (MDBs) have made some progress in harmonizing aspects of
36 A recent OED evaluation reported that many recipients of development assistance believe that
reducing operational policy differences through coordination and harmonization is the first action
needed to significantly improve aid coordination and effectiveness (see The Drive to Partnership Aid
Coordination and the World Bank, OED, November 16, 1999). Other development partners are
coming to a similar conclusion as they seek to construct a new development architecture that
emphasizes client government ownership and capacity building, partnership, and results (Joint
Statement by OECD/DAC, World Bank, and UNDP, following the jointly organized Development
Partnership Forum, From Aid Co-ordination to Development Partnership, Paris, December 7-8, 1999.)
See also Jean-Claude Faure, On Common Ground     Converging Views on Development and
Development Co-operation at the Turn of the Century and Making Partnerships Work on the Ground,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Stockholm, Sweden, Workshop Report, August 1999.



Institutional Issues  23
procurement policy.37 Building on this experience, further discussions are under way
between the Bank and other MDBs to move the harmonization agenda forward across a
range of operational policies. IFC also is having a similar dialogue with international
financial institutions, including export credit agencies. Important challenges going
forward will include agreeing on the standards (international or otherwise) at which these
policies should be harmonized, their relationship to client-owned standards and
implementation capacity, and the extension of the harmonization process to bilateral
agencies.
V. CONCLUSIONS
47.   This paper has considered institutional issues in three areas-the Bank's
safeguard policies, their implementation, and their country focus-that all are undergoing
change. The bottom line:
Policies. Going forward, Management intends to build on previous discussions
with the Executive Directors and develop a proposal for Board consideration that
would consolidate the currently fragmented treatment of the Bank's
environmental, social, and cultural safeguards into a more coherent approach-
centered on a safeguard assessment process-with uniform disclosure and other
procedural requirements. The objective is to simplify the framework to promote
better implementation.
*     Implementation. Management has recently taken steps to rebalance the matrix and
continues to keep a close watch, clarifying the respective accountabilities of the
ESDVP and the RVPs for compliance with the safeguard policies. Current
systems will be reviewed in one year to see if further clarification and/or
rebalancing is needed. In the meantime, ESSD is upgrading its monitoring,
auditing, and training systems-under the leadership of QACU's new Senior
Advisor-and the Regions are closely managing implementation and increasing
the level of resources dedicated to risk management and safeguard policy
implementation.
*     Country Focus. Management intends to encourage the development and use of
sectoral environmental assessment, sectoral resettlement plans, and sectoral
indigenous peoples development plans-and, in due course, strategic safeguard
assessments-as vehicles for underpinning sector investment loans and other
programmatic lending instruments. A critical issue for discussion will be the
appropriate level of standards for such sectoral assessments.
48.   Strategic Issues. Looming beyond these issues and actions are bigger and more
strategic issues that go to the heart of the development paradigm. They warrant full
debate and discussion with and within the Board, especially in view of their important
37 The agreement pertains to a common master bidding document for MDBs to use in the procurement of
goods This documcnt covers about 80 percent of all contracts financed by MDBs



24   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies
strategic and sizable resource implications for the Bank and borrowers. They include the
following:
o     Do we have the right set of safeguard policies? What would be the costs and
benefits of adopting an integrative social policy or mandated social assessment,
paralleling the environmental assessment?
o     Are the minimum    standards for compliance with the safeguard policies
sufficiently clear? Is there consensus around them? How does current practice
compare with these standards? What would be the implications of raising the
standards, for the Bank and our borrowers?
o     How should the Bank balance its own responsibility for due diligence with respect
to the implementation of the safeguard policies in projects, against the proven
importance of building country ownership of policy and institutional directions
for sustained development impact? How should this balance affect the level of
standards required by Bank-supported programs and projects?
49.   Strategic Implications. The answers to these questions will have major
implications for the Bank's strategic directions, in light of the important trade-offs they
embody. A new social policy and/or social assessment mandate and higher performance
standards would bring benefits, and also costs-for the Bank as well as for borrowers;
thus careful analysis and debate are needed. But the most far-reaching implication of this
discussion relates to the strategic choice between a focus on social and environmental due
diligence for individual projects, using, for example, "best possible practice" as suggested
by the Inspection Panel, versus a shift to building countries' capacity for and ownership
of environmental and social policies. While in principle the approaches are
complementary, in practice-especially with fixed resources-there are trade-offs. Hence
the critical issue is the level of acceptable standards. In terms of both Bank and borrower
resources, should best practice be the level we require of all the projects we support? Or
should we set the acceptable standards bar at a level that well-performing clients can
meet and sustain in their development programs, and encourage (but not require) better
and best practice through capacity building efforts? These issues must be carefully
analyzed and debated in view of their strategic importance for the Bank and its future.



Annex A
Operational Statements-The Evolving Vocabulary
1.    During the 1970s and 1980s, the Bank periodically issued Operational Manual
Statements (OMSs), which were intended to "describe the operational policies and
procedures of the Bank and IDA with respect to lending, project, economic and other
activities."
2.    During  the  same period, Operational Policy Notes (OPNs) discussed
methodology, good practice, and points not covered in OMSs. Usually they referred to
existing OMSs, but some OPNs were issued without a parent OMS.
3.    Operational Memoranda were-and continue to be-ad hoc discussions of new
policies or procedures, or clarifications of existing policies, that convey instructions to
staff when it is not practical to issue a new Operational Manual statement. Once the
material in such a memorandum is covered in any revision of the parent statement, the
memorandum is retired.
4.    At the time of the Bank's 1987 reorganization, the different instructions to staff
filled three volumes. Operational Directives (ODs) were conceived as a means to
consolidate all the instructions on each subject into one rational presentation. They
presented background and included discussions of policy, instructions about procedures,
and suggestions on carrying out the intent of the policy.
5.    By 1992, the Bank's increasing concern with compliance and accountability led to
designing a system that would clearly separate policies, mandatory procedures, and
advisory material: the OP/BP/GP system.
*     Operational Policies (OPs) are short, focused statements of policy that follow
from the Articles of Agreement, the General Conditions, existing Operational
Manual statements (ODs, OMSs, and OPNs), and new or amended policies
approved by the Board.43 Within the limits set by such documents, OPs establish
the parameters for the conduct of Bank operations. Compliance with OPs is
mandatory. OPs are expressed in declarative wording such as "the Bank does" or
"does not," or "the Bank requires." Exhortative or advisory wording such as "the
Bank expects" or "the Bank encourages" is seldom used; it lacks objectivity in the
sense that it is difficult to define standards to be met, measure compliance, and
assess accountability.
*     Bank Procedures (BPs) inform staff how to carry out the policies set out in the
OPs, describing the actions, standard documentation, and clearances that are
required centrally. Like OPs, BPs are mandatory, and are designed to ensure
consistency across Regions and operations.
43 "Operational Policies and Procedures The New System," memorandum from IIROVP to staff,
February 1, 1993.



26   Country Focus and Safeguard Policies - Annex A
o     Good Practice statements (GPs) contain all other information-such as the
history of the policy, sectoral context, or best-practice examples-that Bank staff
should find useful in carrying out the policies and procedures in OPs and BPs, as
they apply to different country circumstances. By default, all operational material
of advice and interest to staff but not OP or BP in nature falls into the GP
category. However, with the advent of the World Wide Web and Knowledge
Management, GPs are being phased out, with the material being transferred to the
relevant Network websites.



