RP-001 5
VOL. 2
China
Western Poverty Reduction Project
Involuntary Resettlement Plan
Qinghai Provincial PMO
May, 1999



Attachment I:
Qinghai Component Involuntary Resettlement Plan
A. Project Objective
1.     The objective of the proposed Western Poverty Reduction Project (WPRP) is to alleviate chronic
poverty for the absolute poor living in remote and inaccessible villages of Gansu and Qinghai Provinces
and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. The Qinghai Province component would assist 57,775 persons
from poor households to raise their incomes through increasing grain and livestock production sufficient to
meet their basic food and clothing needs and, in many cases, also generate marketable surplus to improve
their living standards. Access to health, education and other rural services would also be improved for the
poor households. The development objective has emerged from the expectations and aspirations of the
target population surveyed during project preparation.
B. Qinghai Province Component
2.     To achieve its objectives in Qinghai Province, the project would support:
i) Land and Household Development: Provision of improved agricultural and livestock technology
packages -- seeds, fertilizer, plastic mulches, breeding/fattening stock; forestry development; and upgrading
agricultural and livestock support services;
ii) Irrigation and Land Improvement: Construction of a reservoir, renovation of an existing dam
and construction of irrigation and drainage systems on 19,200 ha;
iii) Rural Infrastructure: Construction of Class IV rural roads construction of drinking water
supply; and extension of electric power;
iv) Rural Enterprises: Provision of credit to establish non-state owned and household-based rural
enterprises for construction of food and fiber processing facilities based on appraisal criteria;
v) Voluntary Settlement: Voluntary settlement for 57,775 poor people currently living in degraded
mountainous areas of eastern Qinghai. Start-up costs of settlement including grants for transport, housing,
fuel, and initial subsistence expenses would be financed out of counterpart funds;
vi) Social Sectors - Education and Health: Construction and upgrading of basic education (21) and
health ()facilities in Qinghai's new settlement area;
vii) Institutional Building and Project Management: Establishing project management offices at
provincial, prefecture, and county levels, and township work stations and village project implementation
groups (VPIG); and establishing systems to monitor, evaluate and disseminate project impact on poverty
reduction, voluntary settlement, and environment.
3. Issues and impacts associated with land acquisition and resettlement are expected to arise only in
the case of the creation of new or expanded voluntary settlements. (Details regarding migrant selection
criteria, forms of assistance to be provided, and technical specifications for settlements are provided in a
separate Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan.)
C. Impact on Settlement Receiving Areas
4.     The Qinghai component of the WPRP involves voluntary relocation of 57,775 persons from poor
counties of eastern Qinghai Province to the Xiangride-Balong (XB) area in Dulan County in central
Qinghai Province. About 19,200 hectares of land belonging to Balong and Zongjia townships will be



developed for general irrigation works. Almost all of this land is arid, uninhabited, and largely unutilized.
In terms of involuntary resettlement-related issues and impacts, however, development or expansion of
settlements is expected to adversely affect some 4,000 persons (600 households) from Balong and Zongjia
townships. Based on a census and survey of affected areas, these impacts are as described below:
*   1,333 hectares of the settlement area land is used, under formal lease agreements with the townships,
by 63 households (352 persons) as winter and spring pastures. The impact of the loss of this pasture is
marginal as the affected area is only a small part of the available pastures- 17% of their contracted
pastures and only 2.5% of the total available pastures.
*   A part of the settlement area is used as a passageway between winter and spring pastures by an
additional 289 herder households (2411 persons), however, they have no lease rights over this land.
The project will nevertheless disrupt their seasonal transhumance routes.
a   A part of the land is used by 248 households (1237 persons) for farming. This area is served by an
existing irrigation system. This land will be integrated into the new irrigation systems to be developed
as part of the project.
5.      On the whole, the impact of land acquisition and land use change on the sparse local population is
small. No housing, wells, fences, or other fixed assets are affected. The project will take all necessary
measures to assist affected households in their efforts to improve their incomes and living standards. This
will be done by giving affected households the opportunity to participate in the voluntary settlement
program. The program is fully integrated with the VSIP and all benefits provided voluntary settlers will be
extended to the affected households. The main components of the program for the three different groups are
as follows:
Herders who lose contracted pasture land:
6.      In a Social Assessment conducted as part of project preparation and design, herder households
losing contracted pasture land have expressed their desire to shift to a semi-nomadic life, giving them an
opportunity to engage in agricultural production in addition to herding, to build permanent housing instead
of residing in yurts, and to improve their access to schools, clinics and other services. Accordingly, the
project has designed a compensation and resettlement program with the following features:
*   Compensation for acquired land:      Each member of the affected 63 herder households will be
provided a 30-year lease for irrigated land to replace their leased grazing lands, which they can use for
growing either grain or forage crops. The quantity of replacement land is based on the conservative
assumption that irrigated land is 11.4 times more productive than unimproved and rain-fed pasture
land. Accordingly a total of 117 hectares (1754 mu) of irrigated land will be provided proportionally to
the 63 households in exchange for the 1,333 hectares (19,995 mu) lost to the project. Though the
replacement land averages 0.33 hectares (4.95 mu) per capita, the amount of replacement land
households actually will receive varies from a high of 1.85 hectares (27.75 mu) per capita to as low as
0.05 ha (.75 mu) per capita.
*   Land for house construction: Every affected herder household will receive 0.04 hectares (0.6 mu) as
land for house construction free of charge.
*   Setting up a village site : The house plots for the 63 households will be given in a compact area so that
it can form a natural village near newly developed irrigated lands they will lease. The project will
provide all necessary amenities and services, including a primary school, a health clinic, water and
power supply, and access roads. Households indicating that the proposed village site is too far for
effective access to their remaining pastoral lease lands will be given an opportunity to join any more
conveniently located settlement sites instead.



*  Rehabilitation Allowance:    In order to assist the affected households to resettle comfortably and
without incurring any debt, the project will provide a direct rehabilitation allowance to each family at
the rate of 850 Yuan per person. This includes 240 Yuan as resettlement cost, 500 Yuan for house
construction and 110 Yuan for fuel supplies. This allowance will be paid directly to affected
households, with no deductions for any purpose.
* Contingency Arrangement: As is the case for voluntary settlers, no lease fees or agricultural taxes are
to be charged during the first three years following relocation. This assumes that all project-related
inputs and services are delivered on time and that settlers will be able to achieve improved incomes
within three years. For those involuntarily affected, no lease charges or taxes will be assessed until net
per-capita annual income reaches the level of 1,300 Yuan.
Farmer Households
7.     The 248 affected farmer households will be eligible for the following forns of assistance:
* They will be provided replacement land in the newly developed irrigated areas. Since the new irrigated
areas are developed around the old system, the replacement land will be located close to their present
farms and therefore will not cause any hardships.
* Each household will retain their existing landholdings. If the household's existing landholding area is
less than 0.31 hectares, they will be provided additional land in the vicinity so that their total
landholding reaches 0.31 hectares (4.65 mu) per person, including 0.22 hectares (3.3 mu) per person of
irrigated agricultural land. The terms of their lease will be the same as for voluntary settlers, except
that they will be charged only for the incremental landholding above the area they previously
possessed.
* Any farmer household losing access to land before irrigation improvements are complete and
replacement land can be provided will be eligible for paid temporary employment as a transitional
measure to maintain incomes.
Herder Households affected by disruption of herding routes
8.     The land these households currently use does not belong to them, nor do they have any formal
lease rights. However, in order to provide uninterrupted passage to men and cattle, the project would create
three protected passageways through the project area so that they are not subjected to any difficulties on
account of the project.
9.     In addition, the project will offer these households the opportunity to join the VSIP program. If
they join, they are to receive the same level of benefits as voluntary settlers, including the 30-year lease on
0.31 hectares (4.65 mu) of land (including 0.22 hectares of irrigated agricultural land), 0.04 hectare (0.6
mu) house plot provided without charge, and a settlement allowance of 850 Yuan per person.
D. Legal Framework and Policy Principles
10. The measures described above are intended to be consistent with, and to meet the requirements of,
the following laws, regulations and policies.
(a)    Land Administration Law of the People's Republic of China;
(b)    Implementation Regulations of the Land Administration Law in Qinghai Province; and
(c)    Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement of the World Bank
11.    Based on the above laws and policies, the design of this resettlement plan reflects the following
basic principles:



(a)     Involuntary resettlement and land acquisition should be avoided and minimized as much as
possible.
(b)    If resettlement and land acquisition cannot be avoided, detailed plans should be prepared for
compensation and rehabilitation of the affected people.
(c)    Adequate funds should be provided in a timely manner for implementation.
(d)    Preparation and implementation of resettlement activities should be conducted in consultation with
the local govemments and the affected people.
(e)    Absence of legal title to land or other assets affected by the project is not a barrier to compensation
or other forms of assistance; Access to customary grazing areas, water or forest resources will be
maintained.
(f)     Compensation should be paid at replacement cost without depreciation, and without deductions for
any purpose.
(g)     Compensation should be paid prior to the move and acquisition of land.
(h)     Rehabilitation and relocation measures provided to affected people should be compatible with
their social and cultural preferences.
(i)    Affected people should receive transitional assistance during relocation and in their livelihood
rehabilitation activities.
(j)     Incomes and living standards of the affected people should be improved or at least restored after
resettlement.
(k)    For this component, annual activity plans should be prepared, reviewed by the province and
accepted by the World Bank before the relevant civil works are started.
E. Budget and Financial Arrangements
12.    The costs associated with rehabilitation measures result from providing affected herders and
fanners with the opportunity to participate in the voluntary settlement program. Accordingly, all costs,
including contingencies, are subsumed in the budget reported for the Voluntary Settlement Implementation
Plan. Land development costs are to be bome by the project. The only form of direct compensation - 850
Yuan per capita provided for settlement costs, housing costs, and fuel subsidy - will be paid to relevant
persons or households before they are affected by project construction or other activities.
F. The Timing of Involuntary Resettlement
13.    The Qinghai VSIP is highly complex and calls for detailed planning and phasing of a multitude of
activities. It requires close cooperation and coordination between implementing agencies of both sending
and receiving areas. The technical and logistical complexities of the VSIP will be tested through a small
pilot program to settle about 200 families in one village. The pilot program will be carried out in such a
way that it does not interfere with current land use pattems of the herders or farmers living in the area, nor
will it result in loss of their shelter, productive assets or access to pastures. Irrigation will be through use
of ground water and diesel engine driven pumps so as to avoid the necessity of developing major irrigation
works during the pilot phase.
14.    The pilot settlement will be closely monitored to measure the efficacy of the various program
components and also, to identify any emerging trends in the relationship between settlers and receiving area
population. Settlement under the main phases of VSIP will begin only after the pilot program is completed
and is evaluated.
15.    These measures make it possible to ensure that no direct impacts associated with land acquisition
or resettlement are imposed until the feasibility of the voluntary settlement program is demonstrated
through the pilot program. Because no resettlement-related activities are to be undertaken until pilot
program results are evaluated, it is impossible at present to provide a resettlement timetable.



16.    Following completion of the pilot program, the project will prepare and submit annual work
programs for Bank review. In outlining the scale and scope of planned settlement and other activities, these
annual work plans will identify adverse impacts and the persons involuntarily affected by them.
G. Implementation and Monitoring Arrangements
17.    Implementation and management arrangements are as described in the VSIP (Chapter 20).
Additionally, the PMO will designate personnel responsible for ensuring effective delivery of services and
benefits as described in this plan. Monitoring arrangements are as described in the VSIP (Chapter 21).
Additionally, the external monitoring agency will ensure that adversely affected herders and farmer
households are represented in surveys and assessments of implementation effectiveness.
H. Participation
18.    Potentially affected people have been given opportunities to express their views and to participate
in the project designing at different stages of the planning and implementation.
A social assessment was carried out in the receiving areas during the early stages of the project planning.
As a part of the assessment, a sample survey of the affected households were carried out to elicit their
views and concerns regarding the proposed voluntary settlement program, and to determine their interest in
joining in the voluntary settlement program. All 63 households who would be affected by loss of pasture
land was also surveyed similarly to elicit their views about various resettlement options. The RAP is based
in large part on this social assessment.
19.    Extensive consultation was carried out with village leaders and administrative functionaries and
cadres of village, township and county. The concerns expressed and the suggestions made by them have
been incorporated into resettlement planning.
20.    During the implementation phase, the project (and the external monitoring agency) will consult
with affected people at each stage. They will be given the opportunity to participate in the VSIP if they
desire. The location of settlement areas, formation of communities, the timing of relocation and other
activities will be decided in consultation with affected communities.
1. Grievance Procedure
21.    If a project affected person is aggrieved by an aspect of the resettlement rehabilitation program, he
or she can lodge an oral or written grievance, through the village committee and the township work station,
to the county PMO. In case an oral complaint is made, it will be written on paper by the county PMO and
processed. The county PMO will resolve the issues within two weeks. If the aggrieved person is not
satisfied with the decision, he or she can bring the complaint to the attention of the provincial PMO. The
provincial PMO will resolve the issue within two weeks. If the aggrieved person is not satisfied with the
decision, he or she can bring the complaint to the attention of the monitoring institution. Monitoring
institutions are also responsible for arbitration. It arbitrate on the complaint within 3 weeks. If the affected
person is dissatisfied with the arbitration, he or she can appeal to the People's Court in accordance with the
"Civil Procedure Act" after receiving the decision of the institutions for arbitration. A PAP can make an
appeal on any aspect of the resettlement and rehabilitation program, including compensation rates being
offered. Procedures for grievance will be publicized during participation meetings.
22.    All complaints, both oral and written, should be recorded including resolution and the time of
resolution. External monitoring reports will include a summary of grievances received, if any, and the
manner in which they were resolved.



RESETTLEMENT ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
Type       PAPs       Resettlement Compensation Principle             Standard
Pasture    Herder      The affected households will be provided  Irrigated land - 0.33 ha per person
land      households  replacement land based on the principle    on average, but proportional to the
that irrigated land is 11.4 times more  land lost;
productive than rainfed pastures.
If project activities disrupt income-  At least one member of the
,enerating activities, employment at  affected household will be offered
project works will be provided during the   employment at the project works
transitional period.                  during the transitional period;
They also have the opportunity to join the  If they join, they will receive:
voluntary settlement program and receive
benefits ordinarily extended to the   *  0.31 ha per capita of land
voluntary settlers.                       including 0.22 ha irrigated
farm land; The land will be
given on 30-year lease contract
with exemption from fees and
taxes during the first three
years.
. A free house plot - 0.04ha per
household;
. Rehabilitation allowances of
850 Yuan per person,
consisting of 240 Yuan
towards resettlement cost, 500
Yuan for house construction,
110 Yuan for fuel supplies.
Nomadic   Herder       Affected nomadic herder routes will be  Three protected passage way
routes    households  compensated by providing three protected  through the project areas.
passageways through the project area.
They also have the option of joining the    If they join, they will receive:
voluntary settlement program. If they do
they will receive all the benefits    .  0.31 ha per capita of land
ordinarily extended to the voluntary      including irrigated farm land
settlers.                                 of 0.22 ; The land will be
given on 30-year lease contract
with exemption from fees and
taxes during the first three
years.
.  A free house plot - 0.04ha per
household;
.  Rehabilitation allowances of
850 Yuan per person,
consisting of 240 Yuan
towards resettlement cost, 500
Yuan for house construction,
110 Yuan for fuel supplies.



Farm      Farmer       Replacement land to the extent affected,   Irrigated replacement farm land -
land      households  subjected to a minimum area of 0.22 ha    minimum 0.22 ha per person or to
per person.                           the extent affected.
If income-generated activities are    At least one member of the
disrupted because of construction or other  affected household will be offered
project work, temporary employment will  employment at the project works
be provided during the transition period.   during the transitional period.



