Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 8982-CHA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$60 MILLION AND
A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 73.8 MILLION (US$100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
June 1, 1999
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 1, 1999)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y1.00= US$0.12
US$1.00 = Y8.30
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Banner        Mongolian equivalent of a County
Sumu          Mongolian equivalent of a Township
Gacha         Mongolian equivalent of a Village
mu            Measure of land: I mu=0.067 ha
ha            Hectare
Mcm           Million cubic meters
Bcm           Billion cubic meters
Vice President:  Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:   Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Team Leader:  Petros Aklilu



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC       Agricultural Bank of China           O&M       Operation and Maintenance
ACWF    All China Women's Federation           PAB       Provincial Audit Bureau
CPADO   County Poverty Alleviation Office      PADO    Poverty Alleviation and Development
Office
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy          PEdC      Provincial Education Committee
CCICED   China Council for International       PFB       Provincial Finance Bureau
Cooperation on Environment and
Development
CIF       Cost, Insurance and Freight          PIC       Public Information Center
CSA       Counterpart Special Account          PIP       Project Implementation Plan
D&E       Demonstration and Extension          PLB       Provincial Labor Bureau
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment      PLG       Project Leading Group
EPA       Environmental Protection Agency      PMO       Project Management Office
EPB       Environmental Protection Bureau      PP        Project Province
ERR       Economic Rate of Return              PPEO      Provincial Project Execution Office
(Qinghai)
FAD       Financial and Accounting Division    PPMO    Provincial Project Management Office
FAO       Food And Agriculture Organization    Qinba    Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction
Project
FCPMC   Foreign Capital Project Management     RAP       Resettlement Action Plan
Center
FMSM      Financial Management System Manual    REB      Rural Enterprise Bureau
FRR       Financial Rate of Return             SA        Social Assessment
FSR       Farming System Research              SAB       State Audit Bureau
GMS       Grassland Monitoring Station         SDR       Special Drawing Right
ICB       International Competitive Bidding     SOE      Statement of Expenditure
ICLS      Integrated Crop/Livestock System     SSB       State Statistical Bureau
ICR       Implementation Completion Report     STW       Shallow Tube Well
IDA       International Development Association    SU    Sheep Unit
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural  SW        Shallow Well
Development
IMRG      Inner Mongolia Regional Government    SWPRP   Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
LGPRD    Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and  TAG    Technical Advisory Group
Development of the State Council
LMDC    Labor Market Development Center        TW        Tube Well
LMIS      Labor Market Information System      TWS       Township Work Station
MBD       Model Bidding Document               UNDP    United Nations Development Program
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation            VSIP      Voluntary Settlement Implementation
Plan
MED       Monitoring, Evaluation and Dissemination VPIG  Village Project Implementation Group
MOE       Ministry of Education                WBO       World Bank Office (Gansu)
MOF       Ministry of Finance                  WBLEC  World Bank Loan Execution Committee
(Gansu)
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding          WCB       Water Conservancy Bureau
NCB       National Competitive Bidding         WFP       World Food Program
NPV       Net Present Value                     XB       Xiangride-Balong
OD        Operational Directive                XRWCA  Xiangride River Water Conservancy
Administration (Qinghai)



CHINA
WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1.   Project development objective .............................................................3
2.   Key performance indicators .............................................................3
B. Strategic Context
1.   Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project ...................3
2.   Main sector issues and Government strategy .............................................................4
3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices ............................................4
C. Project Description Summary
1.   Project components .............................................................6
2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project .................................................7
3.  Benefits and target population .............................................................8
4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements .............................................................9
D. Project Rationale
1.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ........................................................ 17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies .......................1  8
3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design ............................................................    18
4.   Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ............................................................ 19
5 .   Value added of Bank support in this Project ............................................................                            19
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ............................................................                                                                 20
2. Financial ............................................................                                                                20
3. Technical ............................................................                                                                 20
4. Institutional ............................................................                                                            21
5. Social .............................................................                                                                  22
6.   Environmental assessment ............................................................                                                28
7.   Participatory approach ............................................................                                                 3-
F. Sustainability and Risks
1.   Sustainability ............................................................                                                         34
2. Critical risks ..........                                                                                                              35



G. Main Loan conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions .......................                                     38
2. Other .......................                                                         38
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                     41
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                    42
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .43
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description .48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .81
Annex 4:  Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .84
Annex 5: Financing Plan .93
Annex 6:    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .94
Annex 7:  Project Processing Schedule .99
Annex 8:  Documents in Project File .100
Annex 9: Social Aspects .101
Annex 10: Environmental Aspects .113
Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits .136
Annex 12: CountryataGlance .139
Maps
Qinghai Province                         No. IBRD 29993
Gansu Province                           No. IBRD 29994
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region         No. IBRD 29995



CHINA
Western Poverty Reduction Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
Date: June 1, 1999                             Team Leader: Petros Aklilu
Country Director: Yukon Huang                  Sector Manager: Geoffrey B. Fox
Project ID: CN-PE-46564                        Sectors: Al - Irrigation & Drainage, AL - Livestock,
AM - Agro-Industry & Marketing,
AQ - Annual Crops, and TR - Rural Roads
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL) Theme: Community-Based Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Yes
Project Financing Data
Loan [X]     Credit [X]    Grant []     Guarantee []  Other (Specify) []
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$M/SDRM) Loan of $60/Credit of SDR 73.8 ($100 equivalent)
Proposed Terms:    []To be defined      []Multicurrency     [X] Single currency
[]Standard variable  []Fixed            [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):     5 Loan/10 Credit
Years to maturity:        20 Loan/35 Credit
Commitment fee:           0.75% Loan/0.5% Credit
Service charge            0.75% Credit
Front end fee on Bank loan  1.00% of Loan
4E^~                   A-KWa""='VE'- }=gi=) MI In M 9§     0Z
Source                           Local           Foreign            Total
Government                                        118.00              5.70           123.70
IBRD                                                0.00             60.00            60.00
IDA                                                69.40             30.60           100.00
Beneficiaries                                      28.00              0.00            28.00
Total:                                            215.40             96.30           311.70
Borrower: People's Republic of China
Responsible agency:
Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and Development of the State Council and Provincial/Regional
Governments of Gansu and Qinghai and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.
* See detailed financing plan in Annex 5



2
Implementing agencies:
Gansu Provincial Project Management Office
Address:           326 Wudu Road, Lanzhou, Gansu Province, China, 730030
Contact Person:    Mr. Yang Zixing
Tel: (0931) 8853628  Fax: (0931) 8853558      Email: yangzx(lz.gs.cninfo.net
Inner Mongolia Project Management Office
Address:           East Wulanchabu Road, Hohot, Inner Mongolia, China, 010010
Contact Person:    Mr. Xu Jianxin
Tel: (0471) 4929396  Fax: (0471)4929396       Email: sjyhdk@,public.hh.nm.cn
Qinghai Provincial Project Management Office
Address:           334 Qiyi Road, Xining, Qinghai, China, 810001
Contact Person:    Mr. Gao Guien
Tel: (0971) 8238426  Fax: (0971) 8256567      Email: fpwzxmb(q),public.xn.gh.cn
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
2000         2001        2002        2003       2004         2005      2006
Annual   16.60        21.50        38.30      31.00       25.80        16.40     10.40
Cumulative   16.60       38.10        76.40      107.40     133.20       149.60    160.00
Project implementation period: 1999-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 09/30/99                  Expected closing date:  06/30/2006
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed Western Poverty Reduction Project (the Project) is to reduce the
incidence of absolute poverty in remote and inaccessible villages of Gansu and Qinghai Provinces
and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (hereinafter referred to as Project Provinces - PPs). The
Project would empower poor households in the selected poor counties to raise their incomes,
through increased grain and livestock production sufficient to meet the basic needs of food and
clothing and, in many cases, also generate a marketable surplus to improve living standards.
Establishment of alternative income generation activities in poor rural areas, improvement of
rural infrastructure and enhanced access to basic social services such as health and education
would also increase the living standards of poor rural households. The Project's objective fully
reflects the expectations and aspirations of the target population, as reflected in the Social
Assessments (SAs).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key performance indicators to monitor the overall Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective,
the Project's development objective, project outputs, and components, are presented in Annex 1.
Verifiable indicators, including the percentage of population below the national poverty line, crop
and livestock yield increases, grazing land management, feed balances, per capita grain
production, school enrollment, visits to health centers, jobs created, etc., would be monitored
during project implementation. A baseline survey has been prepared as part of project
preparation.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project:
(see Annex 1)
Document number: 1632 1-CHA               Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/28/98
The Project is the fourth in a series of Bank-assisted, targeted poverty reduction operations in
China, supporting the Government's Eight-Seven Poverty Reduction Plan (the Plan) and similar
to 31 other poverty oriented projects in China. One of the five pillars of the CAS for China is the
promotion of human resources development. Specifically, it calls for, inter alia, targeted poverty
investments; support for the Government's universal primary education goal, with particular
focus on access for girls and minority nationalities; improved maternal and child health; and
disease prevention. The Project is fully consistent with the CAS poverty alleviation objectives,
supporting selected investrnents in environmentally sustainable agricultural and livestock
development, provision of basic rural infrastructure and enhanced access to basic education and
health services in the poorest regions in western China, where the incidence of poverty is the
highest. Support for the Project is also in line with the Bank's strategy of shifting resources to
China's interior as well as addressing the issues of growing urban unemployment, resulting from
reforms of state-owned enterprise, and limited opportunities for labor mobility to the developed
coastal regions.
The Project would also promote the Bank's overall goal of poverty reduction as articulated in the
"Rural Development from Vision to Action" under which China has been identified as one of the
focal countries.



4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues. The absolute poor in rural China, comprising disproportionately of minority
nationalities, reside mainly in remote and inaccessible upland areas, where the endowment of
natural resources is poor and population pressures high (China. Strategies for Reducing Poverty
in the 1990s, World Bank, 1992). Government's estimates of the incidence of absolute poverty
demonstrate a significant drop, from 270 million people in 1978 to about 60 million people in
1997. However, China's growth pattern has led to rising income disparities between the resource
poor interior and western regions on the one hand, aLnd the more affluent and rapidly growing
coastal areas on the other (China 2020 - Sharing Rising Incomes, World Bank, 1997). An
unfavorable agro-ecological environment, degraded lands, low precipitation with recurrent
droughts, fragmented and uneconomic land holdings combined with slow human resource and
institutional development, constrain the prospects for increased agricultural productivity and
income in the upland areas.
Government strategy. In 1994, China launched a far-reaching poverty reduction strategy under
the 8-7 Plan, which targets 592 designated poverty counties located in inaccessible mountainous
and semi-arid areas in the central and western parts of China. It's objective is to raise per capita
incomes to Yuan 500 (in constant 1990 prices) for about 80 million poor living in abject poverty,
within seven years. To achieve this objective, the Plan calls for close collaboration among the
state, local governments, communities and charities, with assistance from external aid agencies,
aimed at inter alia: i) creating suitable conditions for agricultural development and promoting
related investments in off-farm  income generating activities; ii) improving basic rural
infrastructure such as roads, village electrification and rural water supply; and iii) investing in
basic social services including education and health. Toward this end, a number of initiatives are
being implemented with promising results, including Bank-assisted targeted rural development
projects-Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (S'WPRP) and Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction Project (Qinba), voluntary settlement on newly irrigated land (Gansu-Hexi Corridor
Project), redeployment of surplus labor to non-agricultural activities (labor mobility), etc.
Impact of Government strategy. The impact of the 8-7 Plan has been significant. Since it's
adoption, poverty has fallen markedly according to China's own estimates. In September 1996, a
conference jointly organized by the Communist Party of China Central Committee and the State
Council to review the implementation progress of ithe Plan and decided to: i) reconfirm the
country's determination to meet the basic food and clothing requirements of every citizen by end
of the 20th century; ii) establish the rural poor household as the focal point for poverty reduction
interventions; iii) raise the annual funding of the Plan to Yuan 20 billion with obligatory local
counterpart funds equal to 30-50 percent of the Poverty Fund allocation; iv) assign responsibility
to the developed coastal and other cities and provinces to assist poor provinces; v) introduce
policy incentives including tax exemption for enterprise investors in designated poverty counties,
and reduction or exemption of agricultural tax and the special tax for poor households; and vi)
adopt the Bank assisted integrated rural development approach to poverty reduction as a point of
reference for formulating future similar operations in the future. These decisions mark another
milestone in China's effort to reduce absolute poverty,
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices:
Notwithstanding the progress to-date, sector specific interventions (agriculture, rural
infrastructure, social sectors) have had a limited impact on the lives of the absolute poor in
remote, mountainous, resource deficient areas. Improving their lot will require addressing a series
of sectoral issues in an integrated fashion, as addressed below.



5
(i) Low agricultural productivity. For the target population, fragile agricultural and pastoral
lands are the main source of livelihood. In Qinghai, crop yields are low due to poor soil quality,
recurrent drought, and lack of productivity enhancing technology. Likewise, in Gansu and Inner
Mongolia crop yields are low due to a comparatively harsh agro-ecological environment (poor
soils, steep topography, recurrent drought, short growing period, significant grassland
degradation), lack of access to productivity enhancing technologies and working capital for
higher value seeds for crops and forages. Hence, continued cultivation and/or grazing without
appropriate intervention is likely to further accelerate the degradation of the agro-ecological
resource base in all three PPs.
The Project, by introducing productivity enhancing and environmentally sustainable crop and
livestock development packages aims to progressively shift the focus from a food self-sufficiency
system to one that stresses food security while maximizing cash income. The proposed
technology packages are widely accepted and successfully adopted in China and elsewhere in
previous Bank operations. Provision of these technology packages would be combined with
selected basic rural infrastructure and social services, access to adequate and timely delivery of
production inputs, supplemental irrigation, and agricultural support services. As productivity and
incomes increase, steeper slope land and other areas subject to severe wind erosion and not
suitable for sustainable crop production, would be gradually retired from cultivation and sown
with forage legumes and grasses, or protective trees. The attendant improvements in soil water
conservation and progressive reduction of soil erosion (wind, sheet, gully) would, over time,
contribute to raising sustainable crop and forage production. In these development packages,
improving the nutrition and productivity of existing livestock is a first priority. Increased
livestock output would encourage cut-and-carry feeding of penned ruminant (cattle, sheep, goats)
and improve non-ruminant (pigs, poultry, rabbits) integrated crop/livestock production systems.
(ii) Growing surplus labor. The surplus rural labor in China is estimated at about 30 percent.
With limited access to off-farm employment opportunities and low skill levels, the poor face an
enormous challenge to break the cycle of poverty. Employment opportunities in the urban sector
are steadily declining as more workers are laid-off from state enterprises. The Project would help
spur demand for labor through support for crop and livestock production and investments in
small-scale rural enterprises and selected labor mobility programs. Cheap labor, a growing
potential market, and rural infrastructure development combined with policy incentives is also
likely to attract investors under the East-West Co-operation Program. Beijing and Tianjin
Municipalities and Liaoning Province are designated to assist Inner Mongolia, Gansu and
Qinghai, respectively.
(iii) Access to basic social services. A sample survey conducted in the PPs during project
identification indicated relatively high enrollment rates (average 87 percent) in primary schools.
However, pockets of low enrollment and high drop-out rates still exist due to the inability of
households to pay school fees and other charges. Similarly, lack of access to basic health
services-absence of clinics in close proximity and relatively high cost of services are resulting in
poor maternal and child health. During preparation, delivery options for basic social services
were carefuilly reviewed and in order to minimize complexity and duplication, the interventions to
be supported under the Project were designed to supplement ongoing investments and programs
in the pipeline. These ongoing activities include the proposed basic education project in Gansu, to
be supported by the European Union; a special fund for student assistance, targeting Project
villages established by the Gansu Goverrnent; and in Inner Mongolia, where student enrollment
is comparatively high, a program for additional student assistance to encourage enrollment of out-
of-school children. The social sector component of the Project would provide education and
health services in and around Qinghai's new settlement area, and the 'move-out' counties and
basic health services in Gansu and Inner Mongolia.



6
(iv) Targeting the poor. As noted, 592 counties were targeted for poverty reduction programs
under the 8-7 Plan, based on per capita grain production of less than 200 kg and per capita
income of less than Yuan 300 in 1986. While the poverty county programs have resulted in
significant transfer of resources, China has recognized that integrated interventions being piloted
under the SWPRP and replicated in Qinba, best serve the targeted population. The annual
domestic resource transfer for poverty alleviation has reached Yuan 20 billion. By China's own
account, however, the feeding and clothing targets of the Plan have yet to be met for the
estimated 58 million living in absolute poverty. The Project, building on the lessons learned, from
the SWPRP, Qinba and Gansu Hexi Corridor operations, recognizes that the presence of strong
national, provincial and local institutions, and active participation of target beneficiaries, will be
critical for successfully targeting the poor.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
To achieve its development objective, the Project would support:
(i) Land and Household Development. Provision of improved agricultural and livestock
technology packages-seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, plastic mulches, breeding/fattening stock;
forestry development; and upgrading agricultural and livestock support services.
(ii) Irrigation and Land Improvement. Construction of a new dam1, renovation of an existing
dam and construction of irrigation and drainage systems on 19,200 hectares in Qinghai; and
construction of small scale irrigation works on 34,050D hectares, terracing of 26,500 hectares of
sloping land and soil and water conservation works in Gansu and Inner Mongolia.
(iii) Rural Infrastructure. Construction of 216 kilometers of Class III and IV rural roads to
provide access to 289 remote administrative villages; construction of drinking water supply
facilities to serve 370,000 people in 760 administrative villages; and extension of electric power
lines to 410 administrative villages.
(iv) Rural Enterprises. Provision of credit to establish non-state owned and household-based
rural enterprises for construction of food and fiber processing facilities based on agreed criteria.
(v) Labor Mobility (Gansu). Organized and voluntaiy placement of about 65,700 surplus rural
laborers in off-farm employment in and outside Gansu and support to Gansu's Labor Bureau to
improve the management and referral services. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Borrower would ensure that all regional governments employing surplus labor under the
Gansu Labor Mobility Program, implement the program in a manner designed to ensure safe and
equitable working and living conditions for the laborers (page38(i)).
(vi) Voluntary Settlement (Qinghai). Voluntary seltlement of an estimated 57,800 living in
absolute poverty in degraded mountainous areas of eastern Qinghai and of 4,000 local herders
and farmers living around the settlement area. Start-up costs of settlement, including grants for
transport, housing, fuel, and initial subsistence expenses, would be financed out of counterpart
funds; rehabilitation of 85 percent and terracing of 15 percent of the land to be vacated would be
financed by the Project counties.
(vii) Social Sectors - Education and Health. Construction and upgrading of basic education and
health facilities in Qinghai's new settlement area and in the 'move-out' counties; and upgrading
services of selected basic health clinics in Gansu and Inner Mongolia. Assurances were obtained
1 The dam is an off-river reservoir which will inundate approximately 128 hectares of unused desert land to
an average depth of about 15 meters.



7
during negotiations that PPs would develop and implement their medical financing systems not
later than September 30, 2000 in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the
Bank (page 38(ii)).
(viii) Institutional Building and Project Management. Establishing project management
offices at provincial, prefecture, and county levels, and Township Work Stations (TWSs) and
village project implementation groups (VPIGs); launching a pilot integrated poverty reduction
management program in one Banner in Inner Mongolia to coordinate poverty reduction activities
and entities; implementing these under a single management structure and establishing systems to
monitor, and evaluate the impact of the Project on poverty reduction, voluntary settlement, labor
mobility, and environment and to disseminate the results.
The Project cost estimate, including contingencies, is presented in the table below. The front-end
fee of US$0.6 million will be financed under the Bank loan.
1. Land and Household        AA -Agiutr 141.00                           8 5.2 S005.
Development
2. Irrigation and Land       Al - Irrigation and      86.30    27.7      42.20        26.4
Improvement                  Drainage
3. Rural Infrastructure      TR - Rural Roads         28.70      9.2     11.90         7.4
4. Rural Enterprises         AM - Agro-Industry       13.60     4.4       6.80         4.2
and Marketing
5. Labor Mobility (Gansu)    SE - Employment          15.70     5.0       7.70         4.8
6. Voluntary Settlement      VR - Resettlement         6.50     2.1       0.10         0.1
(Qinghai)
7. Social Sectors            RR - Human Resources      8.70      2.8      0.00         0.0
8. Institutional Development  BI - Institutional      10.60     3.4       5.70         3.6
and Project Management       Development
Total Project Costs                        311.10    99.8      159.40       99.6
Front-end fee                           0.60     0.2       0.60         0.4
Total Financing Required                         311.70   100.0    160.00        100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project:
A clearly articulated Government policy for poverty reduction, including an established
institutional arrangement for its implementation underpin the Project. This policy has been
reviewed by the Bank, and has been assessed to be very satisfactory. Hence, no major reforms are
envisaged in this regard. Lessons learned from ongoing Bank-assisted poverty reduction
operations, however, attest to the need for fine-tuning to make production credit programs more
sustainable, increase flexibility in procurement arrangements to reflect the dispersed nature of
project activities, improve targeting, and enhance, rationalize, and co-ordinate line agency
responsibilities. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the Project.
Households would be introduced to formal credit channels and established input credit lines. To
foster coordination, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be signed between Project
Management Offices (PMOs) and executing line agencies, specifying time-bound delivery of



8
services, has been introduced. An integrated pilot poverty reduction management program would
be implemented in Inner Mongolia. The county resources for poverty reduction activities would
be merged, and implementation arrangements harmonized, including sub-project financing and
selection criteria. Under the pilot activity, no distinction would be made between locally and
externally financed activities. This pilot is anticipaited to demonstrate and evaluate the value
added of integrated management.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project, by creating employment and income generating opportunities, would benefit an
estimated 1.7 million people living in absolute poverty (674,000 persons in 167,000 families in
Inner Mongolia; 930,000 persons in 197,000 families in Gansu; and 61,800 persons in 13,600
families in Qinghai) including minority nationalities residing in 3,700 remote and inaccessible
villages of Qinghai, Gansu and Inner Mongolia. Food grains, cash crops, fruits, wood, forages,
meat and wool constitute the primary project outputs.
A survey of selected project counties indicates that an average household produces adequate food
grain supplies for about six months. For the remaining six months, most households borrow from
relatives or better-off neighbors to supplement the limited welfare ration provided by local
governments. In Qinghai, benefits would accrue tc, the migrants in the 'move-in' area, the
existing households in the 'move-in' area, and to famiilies who remain behind in the 'move-out'
counties and villages. In the case of the latter, out migration would reduce population pressures
and contribute to arresting ecological degradation. St.ep uplands previously cultivated would be
returned to grass and forest land, thereby reducing soil erosion and increasing water conservation.
Rehabilitation of 85 percent and terracing of 15 percent of the land to be vacated would be
financed by the project counties. Some poor households who remain in the 'move-out' villages
would be able to increase their per capita grain production through cultivating larger areas of the
terraced land. County governments would face less demand on their limited resources for welfare
assistance in times of food shortage. When fully implemented, the project beneficiaries would
meet basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases, earn cash income from a marketable
surplus and labor mobility.
The Project would also improve the overall education and health status of the target population by
increasing primary school enrollment and enhancing completion rates, and reducing infant and
maternal mortality and morbidity. Provision of safe rural water would also contribute to reduction
of water borne diseases. Selected rural roads would provide access to social services and markets
and promote investments in rural enterprises.
The target households from poor villages in the nationally designated poverty counties would be
selected based on multiple criteria including per capita income and grain production. Often, the
income variation among households in a selected poor village is insignificant.



9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
China is intensifying the reforms envisaged under its decentralized development strategy;
delegating responsibilities to the lowest levels of quasi-government structure-Village
Committees, while maintaining the policy, institutional and financial responsibilities under
central, provincial and local governments. The Project would utilize existing institutions,
strengthening them as appropriate, to cater to the special conditions in the PPs. A five-tier
implementation arrangement is proposed:
(i) At the national level. The State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction"'and
Development (LGPRD) and its Secretariat, the Foreign Capital Project Management -Center
(FCPMC), are the supreme bodies entrusted to coordinate the 8-7 Plan. FCPMC successfully
directed the preparation of the SWPRP and Qinba and continues to play a key role in their
implementation. For the Project, the FCPMC would make available its implementation and
monitoring expertise to the PPs and provide quality control service, which include FCPMC
reviews of all draft project documents prior to submission to the Bank. It would also be
responsible for project supervision and reporting, supervising the poverty impact consultants and
organizing overseas study tours. Details of specific tasks to be carried out and estimated service
costs will be reflected in the MOUs between PPs and FCPMC. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Borrower would continue to maintain FCPMC to be responsible for project
oversight, overseas training coordination, and poverty impact monitoring and that the PPs
would carry out all training, studies and research under the Project in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Bank (page 38 (iii)).
(ii) At the provincial level. Project Leading Groups (PLG), headed by Vice Governors, have the
overall responsibility for poverty reduction. Comprising provincial line agencies, the PLGs
approve annual work and economic plans and programs of the poverty counties and coordinate
the activities of line agencies. Each PP has a Poverty Alleviation and Development Office
(PADO), serving as the Secretariat of the provincial PLG. With assistance from line agencies,
PADOs are responsible for the execution of targeted provincial poverty reduction operations,
monitoring the program and liaison with the LGPRD. The three Project PADOs have established
dedicated provincial PMOs with technical staff seconded from the line agencies to better co-
ordinate implementation of the Project. Provincial PMOs have signed MOUs with the line
agencies (water conservancy, agriculture, education, health, etc.) for specific project related tasks.
Procurement Agents would be appointed for the procurement of large works and goods under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Provincial PMOs would maintain consolidated county
project accounts for annual audits. Technical Advisory Groups would also be appointed in each
PP to advise on technical issues. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PPs would
maintain provincial PMOs, county PMOs, TAGs and environmental experts (page 38 (iv)).
(iii) At the prefecture/league/municipal level. Project Leading Groups, headed by
commissioners and comprising project related technical bureaus, have been set up in all PPs, as
have the PMOs in all Project prefectures, in 'move-in' and 'move-out' areas in Qinghai.
(iv) At the county level. Project Leading Groups, comprising line agencies and chaired by a
county magistrate, have been established to oversee the poverty reduction programs. Executive
powers are vested in the County Project Management Office, responsible for preparing the
county's poverty reduction plan, implementing projects, coordinating the activities of the line
agencies, providing technical support to Township Work Stations and Village Project
Implementation Groups (VPIGs), monitoring physical and financial progress, and reporting to
PADOs. The county PMOs would sign local contracts for works, carry out designated works on
force account and maintain separate project accounts. In Qinghai, each 'move-out' county has



10
established a Settlement Office to implement the Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan
(VSIP) and manage the selection and transfer of the migrants.
(v) At the village level. Project beneficiaries would be organized by VPIGs to participate in the
Project. The VPIGs, with technical support from TWS on new agricultural practices and
technologies, would be responsible for implementation at the village level. Except for fertilizers,
which would be directly purchased by farmers, the VPIGs would procure and distribute the
agricultural input packages, based on approved village development work plans. The VPIGs
would also collaborate with the Village Committees on issues relating to crop and agricultural
land leasing; monitoring and enforcement of grazing; and preparation, updating, and approval of
annual feed and forage balances. The All China Women's Federation (ACWF), as members of
the VPIGs, would assist in promoting the participation of women in the Project. Villagers would
also be mobilized for local infrastructure works.
Implementation arrangements
Project Implementation Plans (PIP) and Annual Implementation Plans. The PMOs have
prepared PIPs describing the Project objectives, components, costs, financing plans,
implementation arrangements, reporting arrangements, procurement plans, financial management
systems, and project and poverty monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The PMOs would
adopt the PIPs as key implementation guides. In add ition, detailed annual implementation plans
would be prepared and furnished to the Bank. The Pro ject would be implemented over a period of
six years, provision has been made for retroactive financing to cover cost of agreed Project
activities to be carried out prior to effectiveness. The cost of reclaiming about 300 hectares in
Qinghai as a pilot for voluntary settlement, and of social services and rural infrastructure would
be financed retroactively. Selected sub-projects establishing the institutional and project
management arrangements in Gansu and Inner Mongolia will also be financed retroactively.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that starting in 1999, each PP wouldfurnish to the
Bank its annual implementation plans no later than December I of each year and that the annual
implementation plans would include all activities to be implemented in the coming year, including
training, studies and research, under its part of the Project and to be accompanied by a training
plan for the activities (page 38 (v)).
On-lending arrangements. The Ministry of Finance would allocate the International
Development Association (IDA) credit to the PPs on the same terms and conditions of IDA,
except for the grace and maturity period which would be five and 17 years respectively. The
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan would be allocated to the
PPs on the same terms and conditions as the Bank, with grace period of five years, and 20 years
maturity. The PPs would bear the foreign exchange risk. The Agricultural Bank of China (ABC),
on behalf of the three Provincial Finance Bureaus (PFB) would extend fertilizer loans to
households and would be reimbursed from the Speciali Account. In Gansu, the ABC, on behalf of
the PFB would appraise loan applications for rural enterprises. In Qinghai, ABC would use its
own resources for rural enterprise loans. Lending rates to households for fertilizer and to
investors for rural enterprises would be at the ABC rates applicable to similar investments.
Payment terns and conditions on loans to households made in-kind (other agricultural inputs and
farm machinery), would have the applicable ABC rates on loans for similar investments.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sub-projects would be appraised in
accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank and sub-loans would be made
on conditions acceptable to the Bank. Lending terms for sub-loans to households and rural
enterprises would be the applicable ABC lending terms. The PPs would engage the ABC to assist
in appraising and processing fertilizer and rural enterprise loan applications: Sub-projects
would be eligible for financing under the Credit/Loan only if the PP has determined that the
following conditions have been met, and, in the case of a rural enterprise subproject in Gansu,



11
has been approved by the Bank. (a) the beneficiary is creditworthy and has the required
technical skills and resources; (b) the sub-project is economically and financially viable, and
commercially and technically feasible; (c) if the sub-project is for livestock, the beneficiary has
adequate sources offorage or grain feed for the livestock, and the subproject is to be carried out
in a village which has developed a livestock development and grassland management plan; (d) in
the case of a rural enterprise subproject in Gansu, less than 12 of the beneficiary's proprietary
interest is controlled by the government, and the beneficiary has undertaken to contribute at least
30% of the total estimated cost of the subproject in the form of equity, and the subproject is
designed to alleviate poverty through job creation, provision of affordable inputs or Technical
Assistance to poor households, or provision of profitable markets for these households; and (e)
the subproject is in compliance with environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, as well as
Chinese environmental regulations, and in the case of a rural enterprise subproject in Gansu, has
been developed on the basis of an ELA approved by the local EPB. Rural enterprise subprojects
in Qinghai would be appraised, financed and supervised by ABC in accordance with its standard
policies and procedures for poverty alleviation loans (page 39 (vi)).
Procurement arrangements
The Bank's Guidelines. "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
(January 1995 revised in January, August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January
1997 revised September 1997 and January 1999) will govern all Bank-financed procurement.
Bank-approved Chinese Model Bidding Documents will be adopted for all ICB and NCB for
goods and works and the Standard Bid Evaluation Form will be used. The Bank's Standard
Documents will be used where no relevant model document exists. Due to the scattered location
and different nature of project activities, each PP would undertake its own procurement.
Procurement agents will be selected by each province to provide assistance for ICB procurement.
The procurement profile is shown in Annex 6, Table A.
A procurement assessment was carried out in all PPs. The assessment concluded that the
procurement implementation arrangements are satisfactory and recommended an action plan for
the PPs to: i) participate in a procurement training workshop; ii) develop sample documents for
small civil works contracts and national shopping for small value equipment with the assistance
of the Bank; iii) revise the draft procurement procedures and management rules specifying the
responsibilities of each PMO; iv) recruit adequate a procurement staff at each level following pre-
appraisal; and v) set up procurement filing system.
(i) Works. Works worth US$142.5 million would be required for the Project to support crop and
livestock production activities, irrigation and land improvement works, rural infrastructure
construction, rural enterprise development, social sector facility improvements, and facilities for
institutional development. Works would be scattered over 325 townships in 28 counties and
carried out over a period of six years, and are not anticipated to be of interest to foreign
construction firms. The largest contract is not expected to exceed US$7.4 million. Although not
anticipated, any contract for works estimated to cost US$10 million equivalent or more, would be
procured under ICB procedures. Contracts costing less than US$10 million equivalent but not less
than US$200,000 equivalent will be awarded under NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
These works, worth about US$37.7 million, comprise a Class III road in Inner Mongolia, major
and medium-size irrigation works and rural electrification works in Qinghai. About US$29.6
million worth of minor works, costing less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract and
consisting of many small undertakings, include works for well and pumped irrigation, bridges,
piped water supply, rural electrification in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, minor office buildings in
Qinghai's project area, and construction of processing units in Gansu. These works would be
suitable for lump-sum and fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from



12
at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and advertised
locally. About US$69.9 million worth of works in individual assignments not to exceed
US$100,000 per assignment for crop and livestock establishment, water conservancy and rural
infrastructure spread throughout project villages would consist of small scale and labor-intensive
land leveling, animal shed and silage pits, fish pond construction, tree plantation, household-
based grassland and fenced land establishment, irrigation and drainage canals, cisterns, shallow
wells and terracing, minor soil and water conservation works, simple access roads, non-pipe
water supply works, and construction of household processing in Inner Mongolia. With the prior
agreement of the Bank, these works would be carried out under force account and beneficiary
participation arrangements to best utilize the local know-how, available materials and labor-
intensive technologies. Progress payments for works under force account and beneficiary
participation arrangements would be based on unit prices and quantities agreed annually with the
Bank. About US$5.2 million worth of works would be non-Bank funded including buildings for
social sector services in all PPs, office buildings in Gansu and Qinghai, and rural enterprises in
Qinghai.
(ii) Goods. Goods worth about US$122.8 million would be required for the Project. To the extent
practical, contracts for goods would be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$250,000
equivalent or more whenever possible to attract cornpetition and permit bulk purchasing. All
contracts for goods costing US$250,000 equivalent or more will be awarded under ICB. These
contracts would include cross country four wheel drive wagons (US$0.9 million) and plastic film
(US$2.8 million). A margin of preference equal to 15 percent of the CIF price of imported goods
or the actual customs duties and taxes, whichever is less, would be allowed to qualified domestic
manufacturers bidding under ICB procedures. Office equipment and furniture (US$0.5 million) in
smaller packages by value and labor market information system (US$0.2 million) in Gansu,
household enterprise equipment (US$1.6 million), irrigation pipes (US$2.9 million) and
motorcycles (US$0.2 million) for Inner Mongolia, farm machinery (US$0.2 million) and
irrigation auto-monitoring equipment (US$0.2 million) for Qinghai, and a small quantity of
plastic film (US$0.7 million) in small packages for all PPs would be procured through NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank and in a total amount of about US$6.6 million. These NCB
contracts for goods would cost US$100,000 equivalent or more but less than US$250,000 for
each contract. The remainder, worth US$81.7 million, mostly farm tools, locally available pumps,
sprinklers and diesel engines, small amount of office equipment, household processing equipment
for Gansu (US$12.2 million), purchase of animals, fish fly, concentrate and additives, seedlings
and small amount of steel pipes (US$69.4 million), pick-up trucks and specialized vehicles
(US$0.1 million) would be procured with contracts under US$100,000 equivalent using national
shopping procedures. They will be procured in small batches from local markets and suppliers.
All national shopping contracts will require at least three price quotations. Delivery of chemical
fertilizer in a timely manner over a 6-year implementation period to over 300,000 farm
households for crop and livestock production is critical to the success of the Project. To ensure
timely delivery, ABC, acting as a fiscal agent of the PFBs, would make loans (US$16.6 million-}
available in cash or voucher to participating households for purchase of fertilizers. Fertilizers
would be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken of other relevant factors, such as
time of delivery and reliability of the fertilizer. Aboul: US$14.1 million worth of goods would be
non-Bank financed including rural enterprise equipment (US$0.2 million) and vehicle (US$1.2
million) for Qinghai, social sector equipment (US$2.6 million), organic manure (US$8.8 million)
and pesticides (US$1.3 million) for all PPs.
(iii) Consultant services and training. Consultant services and training worth US$8.6 million
would be undertaken for the Project. Employment of consultants (US$2.6 million) would be in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January
1999. Most consultants required for the Project are expected to be individuals who would be



13
employed in accordance with the procedures applicable to individual consultants. For other
consultants to be hired through a firm, the "Quality-and Cost-Based Selection" procedure would
be used. All consulting assignments over US$200,000 would be advertised in Development
Business. Training and study tours (US$5.5 million) would be reimbursed based on programs
agreed with the Bank. About US$0.5 million worth of domestic training for health staff would be
funded by the respective provincial governments.
World Bank review. All ICB contracts for works and goods will be subject to prior review by
the Bank. The first three NCB contracts for works and the first three NCB contracts for goods in
each PP would be subject to Bank's prior review. All contracts for consultant services in excess
of US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals would be subject to prior review by the
Bank. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by supervision missions. Details are
provided in Annex 6, Table B.
Disbursement arrangements
Retroactive financing. To establish the implementation and coordination procedures for this
complex Project and test the quality standards, retroactive financing, not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR9.3 million (US$12.7 million), is recommended for expenditures incurred between
January 10, 1999, date of appraisal, and date of Loan/Credit signing to: i) set up a pilot program
for the voluntary settlement scheme in Qinghai, and ii) implement selected irrigation and land
improvement activities, including establishment of crops, livestock and trees, training, study tours
for PMO staff, consultant services and procurement of essential office equipment. A Bank
mission will take place to Qinghai prior to the launch of the pilot program in order to ensure that
the updating of the VSIP will take place in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
Statements of Expenditure (SOE). SOE would be used for disbursements against: i) contracts
for all works except those subject to the Bank's prior review; ii) contracts for goods costing less
than US$250,000 except those subject to the Bank's prior review; iii) training and study tour
expenses; iv) consultant services costing less than US$100,000 for firms and less than US$50,000
for individuals; and v) labor placement expenses. Disbursements for all works carried out under
force account and beneficiary participation arrangement would be made against statements of
physical progress achieved at each site at unit prices agreed with the Bank at the start of the
Project and subject to annual review. The supporting documents for SOEs would be retained by
provincial PMOs and made available for review by Bank supervision missions. In the case of
contracts for goods, works and services above these thresholds, disbursements would be made
against full documentation of the contracts and other supporting documents.
Special Account. To facilitate disbursement, three Special Accounts in US dollars, one for each
province to be operated by the PFB, would be established in banks and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The initial advances from the Bank would be US$6.0 million for Gansu,
US$4.0 million for Inner Mongolia and US$3.5 million for Qinghai, the estimated average
expenditures for a four month period. Applications for replenishment, supported by appropriate
documentation, will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent of
the initial deposits, whichever comes first. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the
Borrower would open three Special Accounts in banks and on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (page 39 (vii)).
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005 and the Loan/Credit is expected to
close on June 30, 2006. The allocation of loan proceeds is shown in Annex 6, Table C and an
estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 6, Table D.



14
Financial management arrangements
Organization arrangement. Finance and Accounting Divisions (FAD) have been set up in the
three provincial PMOs as well as in each county PMO. In each provincial PMO the FAD
comprises a Division Chief in charge of finance, one disbursement officer, one accountant and
one cashier. In the FAD of each county PMO, there is one accountant and one cashier, and the
PMO director is responsible for the overall budget planning and authorization. Each county PMO
would prepare disbursement applications with a completed set of supporting documentation to be
cleared by the county finance bureau before submission to the provincial PMO. Provincial PMOs
would consolidate and forward the applications to the Provincial Finance Bureau (PFB). PFBs
have managed several projects assisted by the World Bank and the staff are familiar with the
requirements of the MOF and Bank withdrawal application and disbursement procedures.
Accounting system and procedure. The proposed accounting and internal control system and
procedure have been reviewed and are acceptable. All three provinces have drafted Financial
Management System Manuals (FMSM), which describe the proposed accounting policies and
procedures including a Chart of Accounts, accompanied by explanations of the items to be
included in the various accounts, assignment of responsibilities and delegation of authority,
explanations of documentation and approval requirements for various types of transactions and
journal entries. Project accounting transactions woulcl be processed on the accrual basis, and the
method of double entry bookkeeping would be adopted. Each county PMO would also maintain a
project subsidiaries ledger, and cash disbursement journal, with account distribution headings
corresponding to the Project's specific chart of accounts. Provincial PMOs would keep both a
project general ledger and subsidiaries ledger. In addition, provincial PMOs would keep i) cash
receipts journal for recording the multiple sources of funds; and ii) fixed asset register for
identifying and controlling vehicles and equipment purchased under the Project.
Reporting requirements. The following reports would be prepared by each provincial PMO and
furnished to the Bank semi-annually: i) Financial Statements (Balance Sheet, Summary of
Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Component, Statement of Implementation of Credit
Agreement, Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement, Special Account Statement); ii)
Project Progress (output monitoring report); and iii) Procurement Management (contract
expenditure and procurement management for goods and works).
Audit arrangements. The State Audit Bureau (SAB) would authorize each Provincial Audit
Bureau (PAB) to audit project accounts. PABs have audited accounts under World Bank-assisted
projects and are considered suitable for such audits. Examination and sample tests will be made
on reviewing the internal control system including accounting control, business course and
division of obligations and responsibilities; checking records of accounts; verifying the fixed
assets, confirmning accountants receivable and payable and other auditing procedures. The
accounts to be audited would include the Special Accounts, withdrawals from the account made
on the basis of SOEs, and the auditor's opinion as to whether such withdrawals were made
against expenditures eligible for disbursement by the Bank Group. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the PPs would furnish audited project accounts to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year (page 39 (viii)).
Implementation progress reporting arrangement. The provincial PMOs have finalized the
Project progress monitoring system in consultation with FCPMC, to serve as a management
information system. The SWPRP and the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project monitoring formats would
have been modified and adopted for the Project. Provincial PMOs with inputs from the county
PMOs would furnish implementation progress reports to the provincial PLGs and the Bank semi-
annually. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PPs would furnish progress
reports semi-annually to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year starting in



15
2000; a mid-term report not later than January 31, 2003, and an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) not more than six months after the Closing Date of June 30, 2006 (page 39 (ix)).
World Bank supervision plan. To supplement the PPs' and FCPMC's annual supervision of
project implementation and exercise the Bank's fiduciary responsibility, the Bank would carry
out semi-annual reviews in consultation with the provincial PMOs, starting with a Project Launch
Workshop in September 1999. Bank supervision mission terms of reference would be prepared in
consultation with FCPMC and provincial PMOs to ensure that emerging issues are reflected and
the required skill mix is available. Great emphasis would be placed on social and environmental
issues including regular participation of senior Bank specialists on the supervision team.
Project monitoring and evaluation arrangements
Poverty reduction and environmental monitoring and evaluation. The State Statistical Bureau
(SSB) in collaboration with provincial Statistical Offices, would be responsible for developing
and implementing the poverty impact monitoring, evaluation and dissemination system. SSB has
gained valuable experience through similar assignments under the SWPRP and Qinba projects.
FCPMC would, under its MOU with the PPs, take primary responsibility on behalf of PPs for
supervision and quality assurance including oversight of SSB. The performance indicators
presented in Annex 1 constitute the main elements for monitoring and evaluation. The indicators
are elaborated in the baseline survey. Six annual sample surveys would be conducted during
project implementation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PPs would furnish,
not later than December 1 of each year, annual poverty reduction and environmental impact
monitoring and evaluation reports to the Bank (page 39 fx)).
(i) Voluntary settlement monitoring. The Qinghai Plateau and Geographic Research Institute
would be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the VSIP. The Institute has prepared
the methodology and procedure for monitoring the indicators described in the VSIP. The Institute
would also carry out the monitoring in the Pilot Village Settlement Area under the supervision of
independent experts. A 5 percent population sample tracking procedure has been developed to
track certain indicators (elaborated in Annex 9). Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Qinghai would take all measures necessary to ensure that the migration of all households to
the move-in site will be implemented on a voluntary basis and in a manner designed to improve
the living standards and productivity of all households in both the move-out and move-in areas.
To this end, Qinghai would carry out the emigration in accordance with the VSIP. In particular,
it would allocate irrigated farm land in the move-in area to each migrant household and each
household currently living in or using land in the move-in area in amounts and under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank, including a written lease agreement for a minimum of 30
years on terms acceptable to the Bank and exemption from agricultural taxes for the first 3 years
of the lease. Qinghai would also implement its Local Beneficiary Participation Action Plan in
accordance with an implementation plan acceptable to the Bank2 Under this implementationl
plan, Qinghai would take a number of measures to (a) ensure social stability in the move-in area,
(b) ensure that pastoralists are able to maintain their preferred methods of livelihood, (c)
promote culturally appropriate education for minority nationalities in both move-out and move-in
areas, (d) ensure adequate, culturally appropriate access of people in both areas to health care
services, and (e) integrate cultural preferences of all nationalities involved in the migration. In
addition, prior to any migration to the move-in area, Qinghai would cany out a study to update
its assessment of the social needs of both migrating households and households living in or using
land in the move-in site and recommend measures to update the VSIP on the basis of this study.
Once the VSIP is updated to take into account the Bank's views on the study and its
recommendations, Qinghai would undertake a pilot voluntary settlement program to move up to
2This implementation plan is set out in a supplemental letter to the Project Agreement, which is included in
the package of legal agreements made available to the Bank's Executive Directors.



16
200 households in one village into the move-in area. Prior to undertaking any further settlement
in the move-in area, Qinghai would report to the Bank on the results of the pilot program and
revise the VSIP to take into account the views of the Bank on the report and its recommendations.
Qinghai would: (a) monitor and evaluate implementation of the VSIP in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Bank; (b) prepare and furnish an annual report on the
implementation of the VSIP to the Borrower and the Bank not later than January 31 of each year
for review; and (c) based on the report, revise the VSIP in agreement with the Bank. Qinghai
would employ independent experts with terms of reference, qualifications, and experience
acceptable to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1999, to assist in monitoring and evaluating
the VSIP. Finally, within 3 years after commencement of VSIP implementation, Qinghai will: (a)
carry out a study to evaluate the social and environmental impact of the VSIP on the move-out
counties and to recommend measures to enhance environmental sustainability and living
conditions in these counties; and (b) implement the study's recommendations, taking into account
the Bank's views on the matter (page 40 (xi)).
(ii) Labor mobility monitoring. Gansu would implement the Labor Mobility component strictly
on a voluntary basis. During negotiations assurances were obtained that Gansu would take all
measures required on its part to ensure that the labor mobility program is implemented on a
voluntary basis and in a manner designed to ensure safe and equitable working and living
conditions for the participating laborers. Gansu would monitor and evaluate this program in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, and would prepare, with the assistance of
independent experts employed not later than December 31, 1999, an annual report covering,
inter alia, the employment selection process, the safety, treatment and living conditions of the
placed workers, and the impact of the remittances on the workers' families, and furnish this
report to the Bank not later than December 1 of each year for review. The labor mobility
program would be revised, based on the report's recommendations, and taking into account the
Bank's views on the matter (page 40 (xii)).
(iii) Environmental monitoring. Based on the PPs' environmental management plans, a set of
indicators have been selected to be monitored during the life of the Project. Each PP has assigned
the provincial Environmental Protection Bureau (EPB) to conduct periodic environmental
evaluations of project investments and to review rural enterprise sub-projects prior to approval.
Monitoring costs are included in the Project cost estimate to ensure timely reviews. The use of
1,400 hectares of natural grassland in Inner Mongolia and 8,000 hectares in Gansu would be
monitored by the local Grassland Monitoring Bureaus. Village-area feed and forage balances
would be prepared by the township PMOs, assisted by their local county PMOs. The
determination of ruminant and non-ruminant livestock numbers in Project areas would be based
solely on updated and cleared feed and grain balances. An independent Chinese institution would
carry out spot checks on feed balance preparation, livestock numbers, and grassland integrity.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PPs would ensure that each village in
their Project areas would prepare and implement annual livestock and grassland management-
plans to ensure acceptable livestock feed balances and environmentally sustainable use of
grassland. The PPs would ensure that all village grassland used under the Project is leased to
the users for a minimum of 30 years under conditions designed to ensure the land's use in
accordance with the grassland management plans. The PPs would monitor and report to the
Bank annually on the livestock balances in these villages and adjust their plans to ensure
continued acceptable livestock feed balances and environmentally sustainable grassland use,
taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter (page 40 (xiii)).



17
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The scope and design of the Project was defined by the PPs based on their respective poverty
alleviation strategies. In accordance with the Plan guidelines, the PPs have targeted nationally
designated poverty counties (33 counties in total). Development alternatives in the selected areas
of the PPs are constrained by the fragility of the environment. In Qinghai, the resource base of the
six poor 'move-out' counties has been depleted as a result of the combination of population
pressures, intensive cultivation, and over grazing. With steadily increasing population pressures,
more unsuitable land will be cultivated, thus accelerating environmental degradation. Even with
the use of improved technologies and systems, the population pressure would prevent the
achievement of even the most basic living standards. The only viable and environmentally
sustainable alternative, therefore, is to voluntarily relocate parts of the population. The Australian
Aid (AusAID), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and World Food
Program (WFP) have provided assistance to Qinghai in counties that have potential for in situ
development. However, the areas selected for the Project do not offer development opportunities
and the Bank has assessed that the only environmentally sound alternative is to contain
cultivation of the degraded lands and assist the local population to voluntarily seek opportunities
elsewhere.
Gansu is also tackling poverty by a combination of voluntary settlement (e.g. the Bank assisted
Gansu Hexi Corridor Project designed to relocate 200,000 people) and development of existing
cultivated lands. The Project design in Gansu recognizes that, with the adoption of recent best
practice (the completed IDA assisted Gansu Agricultural Development Project) and
environmentally friendly technology packages (combination of improved seeds, fertilizer,
supplementary irrigation and agricultural advisory services) for crop and livestock systems,
current productivity could be increased.
Inner Mongolia poses a special challenge for poverty reduction. The Project counties suffer from
arid climate, severe droughts and wind erosion. The interventions proposed in Inner Mongolia
combine resource conservation measures (cropland protection and controlled grazing of range
lands) with irrigated agriculture and livestock development. In both Gansu and Inner Mongolia,
fanrners would adopt rainwater collection for storage in cisterns. These systems are cost effective
and widely used in the PPs. In addition, a window of opportunity now exists in the three PPs
supporting sustainable arable and pastureland management to curtail further land degradation by
crop and livestock production practices. By shifting from natural pasture-based livestock
production to the feeding of cut-and-carry crop by-products and planted forage crops, grazing
pressure on overgrazed grasslands would decrease. Furthermore, the government's establishment
of long-term agricultural land leases up to 30 years will be adopted by all project beneficiaries
utilizing crop or grassland in order to provide the necessary incentives for more sustainable land
use.



18
2. Major related  projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(completed, ongoing and planned)
;~~~~~~~~~E
Bank-financed
Implementation of an integrated and  China - Southwest Poverty Reduction    S                HS
complex poverty reduction project.  Project - Ongoing
Targeting assistance to absolute poor and  China - Qinba Poverty Reduction  S                HS
predominantly minority nationalities  Project - Ongoing
living in inaccessible and resource poor
areas.
Community participation.           China - National Rural Water Supply -    S                 S
Ongoing
Poverty reduction through voluntary  China - Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project -  S                 S
settlement.                        Ongoing
Poverty reduction through voluntary  China - Northern Irrigation Project -  S                 S
settlement.                        Completed
Other development agencies
IFAD-Poverty Alleviation           Ongoing in Qinghai
AusAID-Poverty Alleviation         Ongoing in Qinghai
UNDP/WFP-Poverty Alleviation       Ongoing in Qinghai
European Union - Poverty Alleviation  Ongoing in Qinghai
European Union - Basic Education   Under preparation in Gansu
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design:
A recent Quality Assurance Group review of SWPRP and lessons learned from the Shanxi
Poverty Alleviation Project concluded that strong commitment of the central and provincial
governments to integrated poverty reduction is key to early success of the projects. The Review's
recommendations for strengthening design of poverty projects include: i) flexibility in project
design, and phasing of project components; ii) recognizing the long-term institutional
implications of the project including the roles of the LGPRD, ministries and provincial agencies;
iii) identifying a sustainable agricultural input financing source; iv) greater attention to sectoral
and sub-sectoral policy and institutional challenges; End v) need for simplifying and introducing
flexibility in the Bank's procurement procedures in view of the scattered nature of the poverty
projects. The Project, while adopting the overall framework of SWPRP, has introduced new
design features-selectivity in project components, scaling down investment in rural enterprises
while promoting non-state sector joint ventures for commercially viable enterprises with sister
cities and provinces in the east; delegating sub-project appraisal and approval to financial
intermediaries; linking project beneficiaries with fi:nancial intermediaries for input credit for
purchase of fertilizers instead of central procureiment and distribution; strengthening the



19
coordination of participating line agencies through signing of MOUs; and delegating primary
project preparation and implementation responsibility to the PPs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrower and the PPs have demonstrated strong commitment to and ownership of the
Project. The Ministry of Finance, State Development and Planning Commission and the State
Council's LGPRD have endorsed the Project. In January 1998, the Government wrote to the
Bank, lauding the effective assistance the Bank is providing for poverty reduction in China and
calling upon the Bank to continue its assistance. The PPs have the primary responsibility for
project design, preparation and implementation, thus fostering stronger local ownership. The PPs
have also devoted a considerable amount of staff and financial resources for preparation. The
Vice Governors are actively overseeing the preparation of the Project and have mobilized
technical institutes and line agencies to prepare and implement the Project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project:
The Bank's support for the Project has the following value added:
(i) Experience in addressing poverty. The Bank has demonstrated effective formulation of
multi-sectoral, integrated projects to effectively address poverty in the most difficult
environments.
(ii) Enhanced public sector institutions. Public sector institutions are often vertically organized
to deliver services. The Bank's intervention in poverty reduction operations would continue to
demonstrate to the Government that public sector institutions can also be effective when services
are needed and delivered horizontally. The Project would enhance horizontal effectiveness of
public sector institutions, formalized by MOUs between PMOs and line agencies.
(iii) Leveraging resources. The Bank's assistance often leverages additional domestic resources
for poor counties. The Bank's involvement would also promote the poor counties to potential
investors under the East-West Cooperation Program.
(iv) Transfer of knowledge. Technical knowledge transferred during project preparation such as
developing a sound project design, introducing market tests to justify project outputs, developing
transparent targeting mechanisms, application of social assessments, environmental procedures,
training project staff in project cost and benefit estimates and analysis methodologies are the
value added gained by the PPs.
(v) Improved design features. The Project is introducing improved project design features: a)
rigorous selection of project components; b) focusing on household level food and raw material
processing facilities and scaling down township and village enterprises; c) inter-agency
cooperation by adopting standards and implementation arrangements from ongoing Bank-assisted
operations-roads, rural water supply, education and health; and d) piloting a program approach.
for project management in one Banner in Inner Mongolia. Lessons from these new features and
the pilot may form the basis for future investment planning and financing.



20
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis:    NPV= US$1,282 million; ERR = 22 %
The detailed economic analysis of the individual project components (except Social Sector and
Institutional Building) and the whole Project is presented in Annex 4. Economic rates of return
(ERR) range from an average of 15 percent for rural infrastructure to about 50 percent for rural
enterprises with the overall project ERR at 22 percent. The Project's ERR, lower than the ERRs
estimated for SWPRP and Qinba projects, with 36 percent and 40 percent respectively, is
explained by the significant investments made in water conservancy works and social sector
activities, which account for about one third of the total Project investments.
2. Financial (see Annex 4):   NPV=US$1,034 million; FRR = 20 %
Financial analysis has been carried out for all Project components (except for Rural Road, Social
Sector and Institutional Building) and the Project as a whole is also presented in Annex 4. The
overall financial rates of return (FRR) are at 27 percent for Gansu and 19 percent for Inner
Mongolia and 13 percent for Qinghai.
Fiscal Impact:
The financing of the Project is based on the govemrnent's policy of "who benefits who pays".
Loans to provinces are on-lent to counties with guarantees issued by the Prefectures. Except for
rural infrastructure and social sector investments, beneficiaries would either be liable for full cost
recovery or take over the full responsibility for operation and maintenance. In Qinghai, irrigation
charges combined with a land lease fee would cover the full operation and maintenance costs and
a portion of the investment cost. The average annual Project investment cost represents less than
5 percent of the provincial annual expenditure on various poverty programs and would have
minimal fiscal impact.
3. Technical:
The technologies for the Project are not new. The crop and livestock development, the proposed
production technologies and systems have proven track records, and are already widely accepted
by technicians and farmers. Yield assumptions have been based on average yields obtained from
progressive farmers in the project regions using the various technologies. In Inner Mongolia the
average yield assumptions have been discounted by a "risk" factor to allow for effects of drought
and occurrence of other adverse factors. The discount factor has been calculated by taking the
average yield of grain and oil crops in the project leagues for the five years ending 1996 less the
minimum yield divided by the average yield. No specific risk factor has been estimated for
Gansu, but the projected yields have been based on conservative actual yields achieved by
farmers using the project technologies. In both provinces, the "best practice" yields achieved by
farmers are well above those used for project benefit estimates.
The Project's intervention would facilitate the poor households' access to financial resources and
allow for expansion of the adoption of modern farm technologies. Low-cost labor intensive rural
infrastructure construction has been most effective in mobilizing surplus rural labor for
community self-help efforts; rural water supply and rural roads ranked high in order of priority by
the very poor. The Project's technical design is consistent with that of the Bank assisted SWPRP
and Qinba Project.
The Project cost estimates have been developed based on a careful analysis of unit prices for all
project investments. Engineering costs for dams and major structures are based on feasibility



21
level designs, and for rural infrastructure schemes on representative designs specifically prepared
for the purpose of arriving at reliable cost estimates. A composite physical and price contingency
of 13 percent has been used. Since the prices of major construction materials (such as cement and
steel) have dropped significantly in recent years and have stabilized, the allowance for
contingencies is reasonable.
4. Institutional:
Executing agencies
The project executing agencies are described in detail in Annex 2. Project execution requires the
collaboration of line agencies in the provincial capitals, prefectures, counties, townships and
village project implementation groups, ACWF and project beneficiaries. During project
preparation, these agencies and groups have demonstrated effective teamwork. In Gansu and
Inner Mongolia, the line agencies have been associated with Bank-assisted operations and are
familiar with Bank procedures. Previous Bank activities in Qinghai have been limited to social
sector operations and the line agencies had to develop familiarity with the Bank during project
preparation. With the introduction of an integrated poverty reduction project, the line agencies
would be required to function in a horizontal structure, synchronizing their activities with other
related project interventions. Toward this end, PMOs will play a prominent role. Staff training
and study tours to familiarize the staff with similar operations in China and abroad would be
arranged. All the participating executing agencies are implementing provincial and central
government financed sectoral programs and have adequate capacity to implement their respective
project components. However, the added features of the Project including the participating role of
beneficiaries, strict compliance with environmental standards, procurement procedures and
project technical standards would require the agencies to adjust their current management
practices. The involved agencies have demonstrated the willingness and eagerness to improve
upon their current practices.
Project management
The three PPs have established PMOs at all levels (described in detail in Annex 2). Although the
PMOs were recently created, their capacities have developed significantly during project
preparation. Project staff have participated in a series of training seminars and benefited from
technical assistance and study tours to similar Bank assisted projects in China. It has been
emphasized that the PMOs role is to effectively coordinate implementation of the annual work
plan by the technical line agencies, mobilize counterpart resources on schedule and ensure that
the agreed procedures and technical standards are strictly applied. Toward this end, the PMOs,
and the line agencies, have signed MOUs specifying the institutional support arrangements with
specific delivery schedules. The Project's staff development component would arrange domestic
and overseas training and study tours. Inner Mongolia has also volunteered to pilot a project
management program in Wengniute Banner. It would strengthen the existing PADO, rather than
create a county PMO and would apply the technical standards, sub-project selection criteria and
implementation procedures adopted under the project to the Banner's use of poverty funds.



22
5. Social:
Social Assessment Review Process
Social Assessment (SA) documents were prepared for the three PPs by Qinghai Plateau
Geography Research Institute, and the Agricultural aLnd Animal Husbandry Engineering Design
Institute of the Agricultural and Animal Husbandry C'ollege, Inner Mongolia. The SAs for Gansu
were prepared by local social scientists coordinated by the Western Poverty Reduction Project
Gansu Project Office. In addition, a Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan (VSIP), was
prepared for Qinghai, which includes an Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as an
annex, prepared in accordance with OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The Project also addresses
the provisions of OD 4.20, Indigenous People by adoption of the VSIP, designed for
predominantly minority nationalities in Qinghai, based on a detailed Social Assessment, and
through a project design which reflects concerns of minority nationalities in Gansu and Inner
Mongolia. The SAs and the VSIP include Local Beneficiaries Action Plans. The SA documents
and the VSIP were furnished to the Bank prior to apipraisal and have been made available in the
PPs to project affected groups, including women's organizations. The SA work was carried out in
close coordination with the environmental assessment work, under the supervision of a Bank
qualified, experienced social scientist, and in accordance with Bank practice.
Social Assessment Process
The SAs, which included the poverty assessments were prepared using a highly participatory
approach in the form of surveys, interviews, and public meetings. Stakeholders and beneficiaries
were consulted and participated in all stages of the process. In addition, extensive socio-economic
surveys were conducted in both the 'move-out' and 'move-in' areas in Qinghai. Nationally
designated poverty counties and townships were selected as project areas. Priority was given to
townships with large numbers of ethnic minority nationalities. In Qinghai, six of the 14 national
poverty counties were chosen as project areas for selection of voluntary migrants to form the
'move-out' population. Minority nationalities account for 51 percent of the total population of
these counties.
The results of the SAs were used to ensure that the Project objectives and interventions are
appropriate vis-a-vis the needs of the targeted beneficiaries and that the changes proposed in the
agricultural, animal husbandry, and rural infrastructure components and Qinghai's voluntary
settlement component, are acceptable to the affected population. The SA seek to ensure that
changes brought about by the Project are equitable, irrespective of gender, ethnic and social
differences.
In all PPs, project design reflects the recommendations of the SAs and the VSIP. Impacted
stakeholders', including minorities', views have been fully analyzed and incorporated into the
project design. The Bank will pay particular attention during project supervision ensuring that
these recommendations be fully implemented.Assurences were obtained during negotiations that
each PP would ensure that all persons affected by the Project fully participate in the Project's
design and implementation and receive social and economic benefits from the Project that are
compatible with their cultural preferences. To that end, the PPs would: (a) carry out the Project
in accordance with their Local Beneficiary Participation Action Plan; (b) monitor the
implementation of these plans in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank; (c) report to
the Bank on the results of this monitoring; and (d) introduce revisions to these plans, as agreed
with the Bank in order to achieve the plans' objectives (page 40 (xiv)).



23
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Provinces. The population of PPs comprises various ethnic
groups, with Han Chinese in predominance. In Gansu, Han make up 88 percent while minorities
(largely Hui, Tibetan, Mongol, Kazak, and Yugu) account for 12 percent. In Inner Mongolia, the
main groups are Han (79 percent), Mongol (16 percent), Manchu (2 percent), Hui (1 percent) and
other minorities (2 percent including Dawer, Korean, Ewenke etc.). In Qinghai, the total
population is made up of Han (57 percent), Tibetan (21 percent), Hui (14 percent), Tu (3 percent),
Salar (2 percent), Mongol (2 percent) and other minorities (I percent).
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Areas. The composition of beneficiaries in project areas
varies across the PPs. In Gansu, Hui account for 7 percent and Han, 93 percent. In Inner
Mongolia, about 14 percent of the beneficiaries are minorities and 86 percent Han. The ethnic
composition of project beneficiaries in Gansu and Inner Mongolia largely reflects the population
composition in the project counties/banners. In Qinghai, the migrants from the six 'move-out'
counties are composed of Han (42 percent), Tibetan (6 percent), Hui (36 percent), Salar (7
percent) and Tu (9 percent). The 'move-in' county (Dulan) is comprised of Han (53 percent),
Tibetan (23 percent), Mongol (14 percent), Hui (7 percent), and other minorities (3 percent). The
project-affected population in 'move-in' townships is composed of Mongol (69 percent), Han (26
percent) and Hui (5 percent). Subsistence strategies pursued by these communities fall into three
broad classifications: the nomadic herders (60 percent), sedentary herders (9 percent), and
farners (31 percent).
Project Impact and Mitigation Measures
In assessing the Project's impact on local communities, a number of social issues were identified
and analyzed in the SAs including: i) possible adverse environment impacts; ii) land acquisition;
iii) possible inequitable distribution of benefits; and iv) issues related to ethnic minority rights.
These issues are discussed below and described in more detail in Annex 9.
Possible Adverse Environment Impacts. No major concerns regarding enviromnental issues
were identified in the SAs in Gansu and Inner Mongolia because the bulk of the Project activities
are expected to produce positive environmental impacts. In Qinghai, the main concern identified
in the SA is related to the fragile ecology in the 'move-in' area. (See Annex 10).
Land Acquisition and Project Affected People. In Inner Mongolia, the construction of a Class
III, 45 kilometer road would require acquisition of 40 hectares of Gobi grassland. The land is
owned by three gachas and is not inhabited or used for grazing. In Gansu, road construction and
rural enterprise establishment would require land acquisition from local communities. The total
amount of land acquisition for roads is 85 hectares, of which 20 hectares are dry farmland and the
rest wasteland. Land acquisition will take place in 29 project townships in 7 counties. It will
affect 9,552 people in 1,931 farm households with lease agreements. No land acquisition would
result in relocation of existing houses. Land Acquisition and Compensation Plans have been have
been adopted.
In Qinghai, the voluntary resettlement component is going to affect groups of people in the
proposed settlement or 'move-in' area. The primary affected group consists of 63 households (352
herders) with leased, poor quality spring and winter pasture, stretching along the northern
boundary of the project area. Another group of 289 households (2,411 herders) use the project's
south-north corridor as a passageway. The third group of 248 households (1,237 members) farm
amidst a dilapidated irrigation scheme. A Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework has
been prepared for Qinghai in the VSIP. The Project will compensate all these affected people
according to the Bank's OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement and national and provincial rules and
regulations. Three compensation packages have been agreed upon in consultation with the
affected farmers and herders, village leaders and minority religious representatives:



24
(i) Herder Households with Leased Pasture. For the 63 herder households leasing spring and
winter pasture, compensation includes trading in the poor quality grazing land for irrigated forage
land. In addition, each herder household will be allocated land for housing and will enjoy the
same preferential policies established for the voluntary settled migrants.
(ii) Herder Households Requiring Passage. For the 289 households using the land as public
passage way to grazing lands, three fenced-off transjit corridors will be established. In addition,
the herders would acquire land for housing and farming on the same terms and conditions as the
voluntary settled migrants.
(iii) Households in Old Irrigation Area. 248 households living in the old irrigation area would
be provided improved irrigation services, financed by the Project, and those farmers with less
land than the standard set for the voluntary settled migrants would receive new land up to this
standard.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the PPs would carry out their respective
RAPs in a manner designed to improve the living standards and production levels of all persons
suffering involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to productive assets, income, or
means of livelihood as a result of works under the Project that cause a change in land or water
use. The PPs would: (a) monitor the implementation of their RAPs in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank; (b) report to the Bank on the results of this monitoring, and (c) introduce
revisions to the RAPs, as agreed with the Bank in order to achieve the plans' objectives. If any
sub-projects financed out of sub-loans would involve resettlement, the resettlement would be
carried out in accordance with a resettlement plan which has been (a) prepared on the basis of a
policy framework acceptable to the Bank, and (b) approved by the Bank (page 40 (xv)).
Ensuring Equitable Distribution of Benefits (including women). The SAs identified some
concerns that the benefits of the proposed activities imay be inequitably distributed among ethnic
nationalities and project affected households. Selection of households is going to be closely
monitored to ensure fair and transparent selection. The SAs paid special attention to integrate
women's' concerns, especially minority women who are generally not involved in public
activities, into project design with specific project components benefiting women. Activities and
programs designed to accommodate these concerns include: i) women's' education (literacy and
technical skills); ii) improved health care (provision of midwives and training in women's health
issues); iii) emphasis on attracting girls to schools; and iv) provision of special loans for women
for cash-generating activities (sewing, noodle processing, embroidery, knitting, etc.).
Protection of Minority Rights. The SAs analyzed the characteristics of the major ethnic groups
in the proposed project areas and established strategies (including cultural and educational
programs and culturally appropriate health care access) in the project design. This was done in
close cooperation with community leaders and religious elders. To retain "formal" protection of
minority rights, Qinghai has represented to the Bank that the implementation of its part of theb
project, including the VSIP, will not affect the autonomous status of Haixi Prefecture, the
prefecture in which the 'move-in' area is located.
Specific Issues Related to Qinghai
Qinghai is the only PP where extensive voluntary settlement is proposed. Largely because of this,
the project component has been the focus of scrutiny. The SA for Qinghai raises the possibility of
conflicts between farmers and herders, and ethnic conflicts in the 'move-in' area, as potential
risks. Public safety was also raised as a concern, based on previous experience with migrants.
Additional concerns include: (i) claimed dilution of Tibetan presence in the 'move-in' area as part
of a historical strategy of supplanting minority nationalities; (ii) perceived weakening of Tibetan
culture through replacement of the herding lifestyle with that of farming, along with the



25
difficulties of ascertaining the "real" desires of the Tibetan herders in the project 'move-in' area
regarding these changes; and (iii) possible use of prison labor in project construction. Each of
these issues has been discussed and provided for in project design in general and the Local
Beneficiary Participation Plan, Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan, and Resettlement
Action Plan specifically (see Annex 9).
Dilution of Tibetan Presence in the 'Move-In' Area. Of all the Tibetan autonomous districts or
Tibetan-populated districts in China, the three project-affected prefectures (Haixi Mongol and
Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Haidong Administrative District, and Xining Municipality
District) are the "least" Tibetan. All have only small Tibetan population (11 percent, 10 percent,
and 4 percent, respectively). Administratively, the three project-affected districts are the.only
districts in Qinghai province not designated solely Tibetan Autonomous districts; all the other
five districts are Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures.
Mitigation Measures in Qinghai. Under the implementation plan, Qinghai will settle minority
nationalities in accordance with their expressed preferences, as intact communities from their
villages of origin, and new villages will be designed with the objective of grouping culturally
compatible nationality communities together. In response to concerns expressed by herders in the
'move-in' area, local police substations and people's courts will be established in the 'move-in'
area to ensure overall public safety, and training will be provided to law enforcement officers.
Grazing corridors will be constructed through the 'move-in' area reflecting herders' desires, and
land will be allocated to herders in a manner to enable them to continue to use this land for
herding. Primary and joint primary and junior secondary schools for minority nationalities will be
constructed in the move-in area, and schools or programs for minorities will be
constructed/developed in other areas of Dulan County as well as in the 'move-out' counties.
Instruction in the language of the nationality served by these schools and nationality heritage
curricula will be provided in each school. Similarly, health care facilities will be constructed in
the 'move-in' area, and in other areas of Dulan County as well as in the 'move-out' counties.
Special consideration will be given to integrating into the health care programs, providers and
pharmacologies of the various health care and medical systems of nationalities served by these
facilities. Consultations throughout project implementation will be held with community and
religious representatives of each of the nationalities, to ensure that the VSIP and RAP are
implemented in a manner compatible with their cultural preferences. In particular, cultural centers
will be established and financial and technical assistance provided to develop cultural education
and entertainment programs.
Special care will be taken to ensure that pastoralists will be able to maintain their preferred
livelihood strategies. Provisions will be made to allow for participating families to adopt a range
of strategies which would include full scale-farming, a mixture of farming and herding, and full-
scale herding. As noted below, three separate passage corridors will be provided for herders
whose access to traditional grazing areas would be disrupted by the proposed project which will
enable their herds to pass through the settlement area.
Pilot Program. In order to ensure that no sudden negative impacts occur in the voluntary
resettlement component, the implementation would be initiated by a pilot program. The program
would be undertaken on 300 hectares for 200 households in advance of full-scale project
implementation to test the proposed interventions at the field level with the participation of
project beneficiaries. The pilot program would also include participatory evaluation techniques to
solicit the views of a representative range of parties in the project area and to ensure that minority
interests are taken fully into account and that Project components are appropriate to their cultures
and ways of life. The pilot program would provide an opportunity to develop "lessons learned"
which could be applied to the design and implementation of the full-scale phase of activities that
would start only once the pilot program has been thoroughly evaluated by independent reviewers.



26
A 5 percent population sample tracking procedure has been developed. Indicators tracked to
determine the success of the pilot program would include: (i) degree of inter-ethnic cooperation,
and lack of serious conflicts; (ii) religious ceremonies and facilities are respected; (iii) both
farmers and pastoralists continue to earn their livelihoods substantially undisturbed by the other;
(iv) villages receive adequate water, electricity, and other infra-structural supports; (v) villages
have access to adequate and culturally appropriate social services (schools, health care, credit,
cultural enrichment); (vi) project beneficiaries frorn the move-out areas report the selection
process ethnically equitable and efficient; and (vii) local governments and cadre from both the
'move-out' and 'move-in' areas collaborate to smooth the transition for host area population,
migrants, and future migrants. A Bank mission will lake place to Qinghai, prior to the launch of
the pilot program in order to ensure that the updating of the VSIP will take place in accordance
with Terms of Reference acceptable to the Bank.
Monitoring of the Pilot Program. The pilot program is designed to avoid conflicts and enable
adjustments in the project design before the bulk of the migrants arrive. The pilot settlement will
be closely monitored to measure the effectiveness and adoption rates of the various program
components and also to identify emerging issues, if any, in the relationship between migrants and
receiving area population. Full scale settlement would only begin after the pilot program is
completed and evaluated. In addition to the pilot itself, a 5 percent population sample tracking
procedure has been developed for semi-annual progress reports to the PMOs and the Provincial
Leading Group.
Indicators to determine the success of the pilot program are both economic and social. Economic
Indicators include: (i) adaptation rates are high; (ii) incomes and yields increase; (iii) both farmers
and pastoralists continue to earn their livelihoods wvithout hindering the other's effort; and (iv)
villages receive adequate water, electricity, and other infra-structural supports. Social Indicators
would include: (i) the project is carried out in a socioculturally appropriate manner; (ii)
beneficiaries' satisfaction rates are high; (iii) there is not only an absence of conflict but mutual
inter-ethnic respect in religious and other spheres; (iv) villages have access to adequate and
culturally appropriate social services (schools, health care, credit, cultural enrichment); (v) project
beneficiaries from the move-out areas report the selection process ethnically equitable and
efficient; and (vi) local governments and cadre fi-om both the move-out and move-in areas
collaborate to smooth the transition for host area population, migrants, and future migrants. The
pilot program monitoring process will result in a report.
Project Provinces Capacity for Mitigation of Social Impacts and Protection of Minority
Rights
Chinese law provides that minority nationalities practice regional autonomy in areas where they
live in concentrated communities. Since the founding of the People's Republic of China, official
administrative procedures have established a hierarchy of autonomous regions, prefectures, and
counties. China's constitution delegates protected rights and powers of self-government to its 56
officially recognized nationalities. Nationwide, the non-Han 8 percent of the population listed as
minorities enjoys special protections and status, including various degrees of administrative self-
rule in a network of autonomous regions, prefectures, and counties. For each of these areas,
special rights apply, such as the right to use their own language, have their own schools, control
their own economic development and manage their own natural resources, among others. Once
granted autonomous administrative status, there is no constitutionally explicit method for
"decertifying" such status, and there is no automatic triggering mechanism for such a process
even when the percentage of minorities in a minority autonomous area falls quite low.
On the ground, although minority policies have varied significantly over the decades of 20th
century Chinese history, during past two reform decades, autonomous status has meant greater



27
legal protection for minority culture and languages and greater representation of minorities in
local cadre/official posts. Such affirmative action policies apply to a wide range of social policies,
not least of which is exemption from stringent Chinese family planning policies. Overall, there is
clear and strong evidence that the Chinese commitment to poverty reduction is serious and long
lasting.
In the Project, the PPs will ensure that SA recommendations are implemented and monitor the
impact and effectiveness of actions is monitored. A number of mitigation measures for social
impacts have been built in to the various project components. The Local Beneficiaries Action
Plans have lists of preferential suggestions for women and minorities, including special credit
lines, educational preferences, special training opportunities, and provisions for continuation of
religious and cultural customs. For example, in Qinghai, schools and culturally appropriate health
services will be established to preserve and promote minority cultures. In addition,families which
volunteer to 'move-in' will have the option of returning to their original homes during the first
two years, without financial or any other penalty, if they so decide.
Grievance Mechanism
Project beneficiaries and project affected people in all PPs will have access to a consultation and
grievance mechanism to address their concerns in regard to the proposed project. The mechanism
and procedures have been described to the project beneficiaries and stakeholders. It is believed
that this will be particularly useful in the case of land acquisition if farmers feel unsatisfied with
compensation implementation or if conflicts arise between farmers and herders. Complaints and
grievances can also be raised and reported to the higher level PMOs, the land management
authorities, and the external, independent monitoring groups. Beneficiaries and stakeholders also
have rights to raise any questions directly to local government and provincial authorities. The
right to make lawsuits has been made explicit to the farmers and herders. All complaints, both
oral and written, will be recorded including resolution and the time of resolution. External
monitoring reports will include a summary of grievances received, if any, and the manner in
which they were resolved.



28
6. Environmental assessment:                           Environment Category: B
Environmental Category
Consistent with relevant laws and regulations of the People's Republic of China and Operational
Directive (OD) 4.01, Environmental Assessment of the World Bank, Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) have been prepared for activities in Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai.
Review of the scope and proposed activities of the Project by the Chinese and the Bank
environmental staff indicated that the potential impacts were not unusual or unprecedented in
scope and had limited risk of adverse effects that could be addressed through design, mitigation
and/or monitoring measures.
The land reclamation and improvement activities supported under the Project are of a kind that
have been widely and successfully applied in other arid and semi-arid development projects in the
Project Provinces/Regions and other Provinces/Regions in central and western China. Previous
interventions of this type have been supported by the Bank under the Tarim Basin I and II
Projects. In addition, the proposed activities would be implemented in a large number of
dispersed sites with most of the anticipated negative environmental impacts being of local nature.
The mitigation measures and methods to be utilized are well known and established in China. It
should be noted that during preparation, the overall scale of the Project, particularly the scale of
developments in Qinghai Province, was substantially reduced with a corresponding decrease in
potential environmental impacts. No pesticides or herbicides will be procured under the
Loan/Credit.
Environmental Investigations
The ElAs were prepared by the Environmental Protection Research Institute of Gansu Province,
the Environmental Sciences Institute of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, and the Qinghai
Institute of Environmental Science. They identify key environmental management issues,
mitigation actions and environmental monitoring measures with their associated costs, and
specify implementation responsibilities. The documents meet Chinese requirements for an EIA
and World Bank provisions for activities placed in environmental category "B," which includes
an Environmental Management Plan. The EIA work was carried out in close coordination with
the Social Assessments, which facilitated broad based consultation on the EIAs with stakeholders
during various stages of the preparation process. A summary of the findings and
recommendations of EIAs is provided as Annex 10 and English language translations of these
reports have been placed in the Public Information Center at the World Bank. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the PPs would carry out their respective parts of the project in
accordance with appropriate environmental management practices acceptable to the Bank
(page40(xvi)).
Qinghai - Environmental Management
The key environmental management issues are: protection of soils developed for irrigated
agriculture from wind erosion; proper development and management of sodic soils; and sustained
availability of surface and ground water resources for use in irrigation and maintenance of aquatic
ecosystems.
3 The Project includes the construction of the Keri Dam. T-his dam is a regulating reservoir located in
extremely sparsely vegetated and unutilized desert area. As such, the environmental implications of its
construction were determined to be insufficient to justify assigning the Project to a Category A.



29
(i) Direct Impacts. The major direct environmental impacts arise from conversion of
approximately 19,000 hectares of lower piedmont land to irrigated agricultural land. In their
present state, these lands have very limited value as pasture or habitat with a sparse groundcover
of less than 5 percent. In addition, the new Keri Dam, a regulating structure, will occupy an area
of 128 ha of piedmont land that is at a slightly higher elevation than the irrigation areas and thus
is much more gravelly and sparsely vegetated. This reservoir is located "off-river" and hence will
not interrupt flow in the Xiangride/Qaidam river system. The environmental consequences of this
development are anticipated to be limited. Nevertheless, a panel of experts reviewed the safety
aspects of the design of the reservoir. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Qinghai
would recruit qualified engineering consultants by November 30, 1999, to supervise the
construction of the Project Dams (page 41 (xvii)). It was also agreed that Qinghai would; (a)
conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design and construction of the Project Dams
during construction and at the start of operations; (b) report to the Bank on these reviews and
any recommended changes to be introduced into the design, construction or operation of the
dams; and (c) introduce such changes, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter.
To assist it in these reviews, Qinghai would continue to employ the Dam Safety PaneL Qinghai
would prepare and furnish an operation and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness
plan for the Project Dams to the Bank not later than December 31, 2001, and would adopt these
plans, taking into account the Bank's views on the matter. Annual inspections of the dams would
be undertaken after their completion to identify and rectify any deficiencies in their condition or
operation (page 41 (xviii)).
(ii) Indirect Impacts. The potential indirect environmental impacts arise from the application of
approximately 300 Mcm/year of water to the new irrigation areas, much of which flows into the
saline swampy areas within the Qaidam River system. Groundwater modeling undertaken as part
of project design indicates that, in the long term (5 to 10 years) the average groundwater level in
the swampy areas could be reduced by up to 0.5 meters, immediately north of the Balong
irrigation district. It will be necessary to monitor groundwater levels and vegetation distribution
to the north of the sub-project area to assess the degree to which these effects materialize and
determine the need, if any, for corrective actions.
Gansu and Inner Mongolia - Environmental Management
The primary environmental risk associated with the development strategy of activities in Gansu
and Inner Mongolia arise from the proposed livestock programs. During the design-phase,
livestock development models including feed balances were carefully prepared to ensure that the
needed feed and fodder resources to support the proposed livestock production systems will
actually be available. Analyses done so far suggest that the resources arising from project
investments alone are likely to significantly exceed feed demands. Details of proposed safeguards
are outlined in the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan provided in Annex 10.
Common Indirect Impacts. There are several other potential indirect environmental impacts that-
are common to activities in all three PPs (and all other rural developments in China):
(i) Use of Plastic Mulch. Increased use of plastic mulch is becoming an aesthetic problem
throughout China, notwithstanding its agricultural benefits. Measures will be taken to promote
proper use, waste collection, and recycling of materials.
(ii) Small Scale Agro-Enterprises. Some small-scale agro-enterprises could generate organic
liquid wastes that require waste minimization and pollution control measures. Administrative
steps will be included in sub-loan processing procedures to ensure that loans will not be made
without locally mandated environmental clearances.



30
(iii) Agricultural Chemicals. On-farm productivity will be increased, at least in part by
increased use of inputs, including fertilizers and pesticides. The farming practices supported by
the Project will contribute to the reduction of nutrient losses from fields. World Bank funds will
not be used for procurement of pesticides and herbicicdes and it is planned that outreach programs
for proper use of pesticides and herbicides will be undlertaken by the Provincial and County Plant
Protection Departments.
Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan
The environmental mitigation and monitoring strategy is based on lessons learned from many
years of applying environmental management criteria to a wide range of rural development
projects not only in China, but also throughout the East Asian region. The approach taken
acknowledges that an integral project objective is promotion and financing of environmentally
sustainable and/or reduced environmental impact rural production methods.
Environmental Mitigation Measures. The projecl would support the following mitigation
measures:
(i) Livestock Management. A variety of production systems already being used in or near the
sub-project area will be made available. Township level feed balances must be satisfactorily
demonstrated and a "five point" management plan czoncerning grazing practices and livestock
density must be followed. Animal wastes will be managed through environmental review of
designs for larger scale production units and adoption of proven designs for small-scale units.
(ii) Water Resources and Irrigation Management. Water availability has been evaluated on the
basis of historic data, supplemented with mathematical modeling. Potential impacts on
groundwater have been minimized by the selection of a conjunctive use option that provides a
balance between development and environment criteria. For the Balong Soak, a management plan
will be prepared. Standard construction phase environmental safeguards for arid, windy areas will
be followed in the main irrigation development area (Qinghai). In the other PPs, irrigation
developments will be at the mini and micro scale and no significant construction impacts are
expected.
(iii) Rural Enterprises. The focus will be on developing small scale and household level
enterprises that generally have limited environmental impacts; ABC loan processing procedures
provided for larger scale activities (exceeding in value Yuan 250,000 or US$30,000) include
requirements for environmental clearances from the relevant Provincial EPBs.
(iv) Land Reclamation. Attention would be given to the survey and management of saline and
sodic soils. The scope of the Project has been reduced in areas with unfavorable soil types and,
for residual areas, suitable procedures would be applied for soil leaching, land leveling and water
management. Wind erosion would be limited through strip leveling, shelterbelts, and restriction
of construction activities during windy periods.
(v) Crop Production. The Project supports extension activities which include standard packages
on agro-chemical management. The Project also includes support for adaptive research to
optimize usage and promote manuring technologies and extensive soil conservation components
to reduce non-point source emissions.
(vi) Rural Infrastructure. Emphasis would be on small-scale gravel roads and upgrading of
existing roads. Activities would focus on farm access roads, inter-village roads and connector
roads that would not increase access to remote areas. Water supply support would focus on small-
scale household systems and will include basic safeguards for public health.



31
(vii) Forestry. Species and planting techniques, already proven in project areas would be used.
Plantings would include economic forests plus fuelwood areas based on quantitative demand
estimates to ensure that participants have an economic stake in protecting trees.
Environmental Monitoring Program. The project includes a monitoring program with the
following elements:
(i) Livestock Management. The area and status of grassland surrounding selected development
areas in all PPs, will be monitored along with village feed balances. Animal waste management
will be monitored by sampling ABC Loan approvals to ensure that the necessary EPB clearances
are being obtained, and site inspections would be made of small-scale facilities. In addition, each
village project area would prepare an annual livestock and grassland management plan to ensure
acceptable feed balances and environmentally sustainable use of grassland.
(ii) Water Resources and Irrigation Management (Qinghai). Monitoring activities will be
undertaken for both surface and groundwater. This will include continuation of existing flow
monitoring and recording of bulk water supply deliveries at Hatu Darn and commencement of
recordings at Keri Dam. Surface water quality would be monitored at sample locations upstream,
midstream and downstream of the swampy area north of Balong. Pumping and application rates
in tubewell supplied areas, groundwater levels in tubewells and wells in the swampy area
adjacent to Balong would all be measured. In addition, annual surveys will be conducted of
vegetation and wildlife in the swampy area and random field inspections would be made of civil
works to ensure that construction safeguards are being observed.
(iii) Rural Enterprises. Loan approvals would be randomly checked to ensure that none were
made for proposals that lack clearances from the EPBs.
(iv) Land Reclamation. Monitoring of soils and drainage water in saline and sodic areas during
leaching would be complemented by monitoring of drainage discharges (quantity and quality)
from the development areas. Construction would also be supervised to ensure compliance with
specifications and inspections would be made of the shelterbelt planting program.
(v) Crop Production. The progress of extension and training programs under the Project would
be monitored. The adaptive research and soil conservation programs would also be monitored.
Input levels would be subject to random samples of plots to compare with relevant national
standards (GB-4285-84). Procurement contracts would be reviewed to ensure that no pesticides or
herbicides are purchased with Bank funds.



32
7. Participatory Approach:
Overview
The SAs provided mechanisms to facilitate stakeholders' including community leaders, and
religious elders, capacity to participate in project decision-making and implementation to promote
long term sustainability of project interventions. Consultations and collaboration carried out
during the SAs provided beneficiaries and stakeholders the opportunity to reflect their views and
to participate in the project design at different stages of the planning. This process also supported
the preparation of the environmental assessments. Participatory poverty assessments were carried
out within the context of the SA work.
To promote stakeholder participation during project implementation, the SAs facilitated extensive
interaction between all the stakeholders. The PMOs consulted with a wide range of stakeholders,
from farmers and herders on the ground, to administrators at all levels, and exchanged views with
other relevant groups. These consultations were launched at the stage of project identification
with technical inputs from the Bank on the links between SA and participatory approach on one
hand and project design and implementation on the other. Subsequent detailed fieldwork in the
project areas (including the 'move-out' and 'move-in' areas in Qinghai) was undertaken during
project preparation. Apart from the design institutes and universities assisting in project planning
and design, various levels of local government were involved and consulted, including
departments of planning, finance, agriculture, forestry, animal husbandry, water resources,
education, and health. During the implementation phase of the Project, the affected people will
also be consulted by the PMO and the external monitoring agencies.
Stakeholder Categories
Based on extensive surveys and analysis of local socio-cultural, and political conditions, the SA
has identified the major factors that affect project impact and success. It classified four major
parties as the project key stakeholders (presented in the matrix below): poor farmers/herders as
the project intended beneficiaries, government authorities as the project sponsors, the technical
line agencies and academic institutions as the project consultants and implementing agencies, and
the Bank as the donor. It also analyzed all the stakeholders' participation and their roles in the
project operation, so as to develop an appropriate projject design.
Stakeholder Groups                    Identifiication/Preparation   Implementation
Primary beneficiaries/community groups  IS/CON                   IS/COL
Academic Institutions and experts    IS/CON/COL                  IS/CON/COL
Local government                      IS/CON/COL                 IS/COL
Donor(s)                             IS/CON                      IS/CON
IS=Information Sharing, CON=Consultation, COL=Collaboration.
Consultation with Project Beneficiaries
To ensure that the aspirations of the poorest farmers, the primary beneficiaries, are fully reflected
in the project design, the SA conducted comprehensive sample surveys in each project county and
prepared case studies in a number of villages. These surveys included detailed investigations of
the physical resource base, farming, herding, income sources, household composition, community
organization, cultural preferences, and farmers/herclers' strategies for coping with poverty. In
Gansu, the SA prepared full-scale draft village development plans for two sample villages in
collaboration with the beneficiaries.



33
In carrying out baseline data collection and village diagnoses, the SA teams tested the villagers'
awareness of the Project. They disseminated project information through various channels, such
as radio broadcasts, bulletins, village conferences, focus group meetings, and household
interviews. They also collected feedback from farmers/herders' on their perceived problems and
priorities, and suggestions on the project design. On the basis of the investigation and
consultations, a menu of village/household specific sub-projects was developed, ensuring
consistency between project priorities and those of the target population. The detailed processes
and results of the sample studies using participatory rural appraisal methodology is presented in
the SA reports.
Women's Participation
Special emphasis has been given to women's participation in the project design, preparation and
implementation. Women are targeted beneficiaries of the Project. A number of specific project
activities have been designed taking into account women's specific needs as identified in the SAs.
These activities were designed with direct input from women through interviews, workshops and
through representation of the Local Women's Federation. The project management framework
has been designed to ensure active women participation. The project implementation procedures
require a minimum of 50 percent women attendance in the village conferences when discussing
village development plans, and in addition to representatives from the local ACWF, there will be
female members in the project management organizations at township and village levels.
Capacity Building for Beneficiary and Stakeholder Participation
In order to ensure beneficiary and stakeholder participation in project implementation and
operation, the participatory mechanism has been built into the project management framework. A
series of measures were adopted during project preparation so as to develop the institutional
capacity to facilitate beneficiary participation. At the village level, VPIGs consisting of farmers'
and herders' representatives have been established which, together with the village councils, will
assist households in preparing and implementing their respective sub-projects in communication
with the TWSs and higher level PMOs. The groups have full responsibility for design and
implementation of the village development plans, which are jointly drafted by farmers/herders
and technical experts.
The villagers' meetings, the local communication vehicle, are also expected to play an important
role in facilitating the interaction between farmers/herders and the PMOs. At all stages in the
Project, PMO personnel would participate in villagers' meetings to discuss with and obtain
feedback from beneficiaries on sub-projects. Finally, farmers/herders will also be involved in the
project monitoring and evaluation, not only as targets of annual sample surveys of Project
beneficiaries but as evaluators of project implementation.
The Project is aimed empowering beneficiaries by promoting effective mechanisms for
participation. Project design at the village and household level is flexible: farmers and herders are
actively encouraged to select and modify the household development models. Project households
would be trained in farming and herding techniques, finance, and marketing relevant to the
models they have chosen. Moreover, the beneficiaries will be further encouraged to strengthen
their participatory commitment and capacity not only by exercising their rights in the design and
implementation, but also by carrying out their responsibilities, as prescribed in the Project. Each
project household would be issued a Project registration card, which records the households'
responsibilities, activities, and evaluation.



34
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of project benefits would be assured through: i) stakeholders' commitment; ii)
appropriate operation and maintenance of the irrigation system; iii) appropriate monitoring of
livestock and density and feed balances; and iv) access to production credit.
Stakeholders' commitment. The central, provincial, prefecture and county governments have
demonstrated strong commitment to poverty reduction. The central government continues to
transfer significant funds to the provinces for poverty reduction programs which are matched by
the PPs. Beneficiary participation in the identification., design, preparation, and implementation of
the Project would also ensure project sustainability. Following completion of rural infrastructure,
the beneficiaries would take over the operation and maintenance of the new assets.
Appropriate operation and maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation system. In Qinghai, the
O&M of the irrigation system would require technical personnel. The new migrants, coming from
rainfed marginal agriculture production systems, would initially have to rely on the management
of the provincial/county water resources teams and over time assume full responsibility for O&M.
Full cost of O&M would be recovered through a combination of land rents and irrigation charges
after a three-year grace period. The unit irrigation development cost for Qinghai is the highest
among the three PPs. To recover the full costs of: i) annual operation and maintenance costs; ii)
periodical major repairs and renewal costs; and iii) depreciation. Based on the regulation in force
governing water fee collection, the annual irrigation fee for full cost recovery would be about
Yuan 70 per mu. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Qinghai would ensure that
irrigation water charges are established upon completion of its project irrigation system and
collected at rates sufficient to cover operation and maintenance costs of this system as they are
incurred and a reasonable portion of its capital cosis over a period of not more than 30 years.
The schedule of water charges and timetable for its establishment would be furnished to the Bank
not later than December 31, 1999 for the Bank's review The charges would be reviewed
annually and adjusted as necessary. Qinghai would maintain a separate accounting for water
charges collected and use these amounts for the operation, maintenance and capital costs of the
system (page 41 (xix)).
The per capita investment cost for piped water supply systems would range from Yuan 170-300,
which is of the same order of investment cost as that fior the Bank assisted National Water Supply
Project. For full cost recovery, the annual water charge per capita would range from Yuan 14-24,
representing 3-5 percent of per capita income, and is considered affordable.
Appropriate monitoring of livestock density and feed balances. PMO livestock staff at the
county level will assist (and train, when feasible) the villages with the preparation and updating of
village-area feed balances. County PMO staff responsible for this task will be trained b-y
provincial PMO staff. Local Grassland Monitoring Station (GMS) will be closely involved in
feed balance clearance and monitoring. Training for GMS staff, where necessary, will be
conducted by the provincial PMO technical staff.
Access to production credit. Sustainable project output requires timely provision of inputs
beyond the project implementation period. Often, the high transaction cost of small-scale credit
deters formal financial institutions from catering to scattered and remote villages. However,
experience from lending to the poor have demonstraLted that poor usually are creditworthy with
good repayment track records. These farmers, with limited prior access to credits in the project
area, would be eligible to get funds from ABC, acting as a financial agent of the PFBs, for
purchase of fertilizer. This new window would establish permanent access to future credit needs
of such farmers, after the Project completion.



35
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
From Outputs to Objective
In Qinghai, prospective migrants decide not to relocate  N    A successful pilot program convinces prospective
to 'move-in' area.                                            migrants of project benefits.
Delays in the adoption of environmentally friendly   M        Agriculture Bureaus provide timely demonstrations of
agricultural inputs and technologies. Townships may           irrigation technology, cropping, and husbandry practices
fail to extend relevant adaptive research and extension       on farmers' fields.
services to villages.
Sustainability of crop and livestock development     S        Selection of proven technologies--inputs, irrigation and
program is imperiled. Townships receive inadequate            land terracing-are appropriate and supported by
agricultural extension services.                              extension services with concentration on feed production
to improve productivity of existing herd; ensure that
livestock increase is supported by feed availability.
ABC may fail to extend branch services to project    M        ABC has joined the Provincial and County PLGs and
townships.                                                    PMOs signed MOUs.
Completion of Qinghai's main electric grid line to   M        Completion date is planned for 1999, the first year of the
project area may be delayed.                                  WPRP. The village electrification component and the
tubewells are scheduled to start in the second year of
project implementation.
Prison labor is used directly or indirectly to work on  N     Heads of migrant households would be hired for project
Qinghai portion of project.                                   works. Government has provided written confirmation
that no prison labor would be utilized, and this will be
monitored on a regular basis.
Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) are poorly           M        RAP monitoring and evaluation process is carefully
implemented; compensation is inadequate or delayed.           implemented and monitored; with reliable reporting and
feedback.
In Qinghai: i) the voluntary settlement program may  S        i) The responsible agencies in the 'move-out' and 'move-
face problems in the implementation anrangements and          in' counties have been established to carefully plan the
frustrate the migrants; ii) conflicts may arise between       details for implementation. A pilot settlement program
the new migrants and the local population in the              will be implemented to test the arrangements, and lessons
'move-in' area, as well as inter-ethnic conflicts among       learned would be used to modify settlement
the migrants may arise; iii) some nationalities may feel      implementation plans; ii) The project would ensure that
that benefits of the project are unfairly distributed         the 4000 herders/farmers in the 'move-in' area would
among the nationalities.                                      benefit equally from the project and have equal access to
all the services to be provided; their preference for
herding or farming and cultural values are respected; the
grievance mechanism is operational and effective; pubfiS
safety is provided; and the settlement monitoring system
provides timely feedback to project management; and iii)
VPIGs will rely on respected community and
culturalreligious leadership for suggestions;



36
RikRisk atin.                                       Risk Miniiaton Measure
Qinghai herders suffer thefts of livestock, lack of water  M  Herders guaranteed access to water, re-seeded
access, further degradation of pastureland, and unequal      pastureland, housing plot allocations, improved security,
allocation of project benefits.                              and grazing corridors through the project area.
From Components to Outputs
Delays in the approval and release of counterpart   S        Dedicate the PPs' share of central government poverty
funds.                                                       funds to the proposed project; open Counterpart Special
Accounts (CSAs) in Qinghai and Inner Mongolia.
Weak co-ordination of provincial line agencies by   M        PMOs have signed MOUs with line agencies. PMOs
PMOs.                                                        would seek quarterly meetings with the proyincial PLGs
for briefing on implementation progress, and decisions;
FCPMC would supervise project and brief the provincial
PLG meetings.
VPIGs may be weak to promote beneficiary            M        Provide adequate incentives-salary support and training-
participation in all aspects of the project. Village         to members of VPIGs.
communities fail to mobilize funds to meet their share
of project financing plan.
Overall Risk Rating                                M/S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Oinghai. In Qinghai the complexity of the project calls for detailed planning and phasing of the
multitude of activities. Coordination and cooperation among the implementing agencies in both
the 'move-out' and the 'move-in' areas will be critical if success and timeliness are to be
achieved. The first issue is whether the management skills and experience are available within
the line agencies to successfully implement the program. The second issue is whether
satisfactory coordination between the relevant authorities in both the 'move-out' and 'move-in'
areas can be achieved thus mitigating any potential etlnic conflicts or conflicts between farmers
and herders. The third issue is whether the required level of cooperation and coordination
between the technical organizations can be achieved. The fourth issue concerns the ability to
implement the project so that its benefits are spread equally among the participating nationalities
and among both herders and farmers.
These issues would be addressed through the implementation of a pilot settlement program,
which would test and identify weaknesses and bottlenecks in the planning, coordination,
implementation and management systems. The pilot settlement scheme would involve one
village of about 200 households. By using groundwater and diesel engine driven pumps, the
irrigation, land and forage development can proceed wvithout the major irrigation system having
first been put in place. The pilot program would also include participatory evaluation techniques
ensuring that feedback from all nationalities and from both herders and farmers to be used for
program modification. During appraisal, the pilot program was approved for retroactive
financing. The pilot program would provide a valuable learning experience for all those involved
and is hoped to result in acceleration of the implementation of the whole program which would
start only after thorough evaluation of the pilot program by independent reviewers.
Gansu and Inner Mongolia. The key issues in these two PPs are first, the sustainability of the
technical packages proposed and second, whether the risk factor of recurring drought on the
yield and income assumptions has been adequately considered in the technical packages. All of
the proposed technical packages are already being adopted by farmers. This suggests that
farmers find the technologies profitable and the risk largely acceptable. The effect of the Project
would be to accelerate the rate of adoption by providing poorer households with access to the



37
necessary resources. Risk aversion strategies adopted by the great majority of farmers in rain-fed
cropping systems, ensure that, in most years, they do not apply all of the recommended fertilizer
rates. While wheat is likely to remain the dominant crop for some time to come, most farmers
grow a variety of crops, which offsets the risk of drought or other adverse weather effects on
crop production. The drought factor cannot be entirely eliminated by the project activities. To
the extent possible, however, expansion of the irrigated area will remain the priority throughout
both PPs. Moreover, the effect of risk on resource poor farmers and how it affects the proposed
technical packages will be a priority training area for all technicians. Crop budgets and cost-
benefit analysis and a wider range of sensitivity analyses applied to farm models will also assist
in defining more precisely the level of risk involved in the proposed technical packages. The
adaptive research program being proposed under the project is designed to refine existing
technologies so as to ensure they are both economically and environmentally sustainable.
Similarly, forage and crop byproduct production and storage will determine how much livestock
can be sustained in the project areas.
Counterpart Funds. A common risk in the Bank's China portfolio is that counterpart funds are
not released on time, resulting in implementation delays. To address this recurrent issue, Inner
Mongolia and Qinghai plan to establish in each project county, CSAs similar to the Special
Accounts to be opened in the PPs. Initial deposits, equivalent to three months of expenditures
would be deposited into these CSAs. Gansu has an existing mechanism to allocate poverty funds
directly to the counties.



38
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness condition:
Standard
2. Other:
During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following:
(i)    The Borrower would ensure that all regional governments employing surplus labor under
Gansu Labor Mobility program implement the program in a manner designed to ensure
safe and equitable working and living conditions for the laborer (page 6)
(ii)   PPs would develop and implement their medical financing systems not later than
September 30, 2000 in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank
(page 7).
(iii)   The Borrower would continue to maintain FCPMC to be responsible for Project
oversight, overseas training coordination, and poverty impact monitoring, and the PPs
would carry out all training, studies and research under the Project in accordance with a
program acceptable to the Bank. (page 9).
(iv)   PPs would maintain provincial PMOs, county PMOs, TAGs, and environmental experts
(page 9).
(v)    Starting in 1999, each PP would annually, not later than December 1, furnish to the Bank
its annual implementation plans for the coming year and that the annual implementation
plans would include all activities to be implemented in the coming year, including
training, studies and research, under its part of the Project and be accompanied by a
financing plan for the activities (page 10).
(vi)   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that sub-projects would be appraised in
accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank and sub-loans would be
made on conditions acceptable to the Bank. Lending terms for sub-loans to households
and rural enterprises would be the applicable ABC lending terms. The PPs would engage
the ABC to assist in appraising and processing fertilizer and rural enterprise loan
applications. Sub-projects would be eligible jfor financing under the Credit/Loan only if
the PP has determined that the following condlitions have been met, and, in the case of a
rural enterprise subproject in Gansu, has been approved by the Bank: (a) the beneficiary
is creditworthy and has the required technicai' skills and resources; (b) the sub-project is
economically andfinancially viable, and commercially and technically feasible; (c) if the
sub-project is for livestock, the beneficiary has adequate sources offorage or grain feed
for the livestock, and the subproject is to be carried out in a village which has developed
a livestock development and grassland management plan; (d) in the case of a rural
enterprise subproject in Gansu, less than Y/2 of the beneficiary's proprietary interest is
controlled by the government, and the beneficiary has undertaken to contribute at least
30% of the total estimated cost of the subproject in the form of equity, and the subproject
is designed to alleviate poverty through job creation, provision of affordable inputs or
Technical Assistance to poor households, or provision of profitable markets for these
households; (e) the subproject is in compliance with environmental standards acceptable
to the Bank, as well as Chinese environmenjlal regulations, and in the case of a rural
enterprise subproject in Gansu, has been developed on the basis of an EIA approved by
the local EPB. Rural enterprise subprojects in Qinghai would be appraised, financed



39
and supervised by ABC in accordance with its standard policies and procedures for
poverty alleviation loans (page 11).
(vii)  The Borrower would open three Special Accounts in banks and on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank (page 13).
(viii)  PPs wouldfurnish audited project accounts to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (page 14).
(ix)   The PPs wouldfurnish progress reports semi-annually to the Bank not later than January
31 and July 31 of each year starting in 2000, and a mid-term Report not later than
January 31, 2003, and an Implementation Completion Report not later than six months
after the Closing Date of June 30, 2006 (page 15).
(x)    The PPs would furnish, not later than December 1 of each year, annual poverty
reduction, and environmental impact monitoring and evaluation reports to the Bank.
(page 15).
(xi)   Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Qinghai would take all measures
necessary to ensure that the migration of all households to the move-in area will be
implemented on a voluntary basis and in a manner designed to improve the living
standards andproductivity of all households in both the move-out and move-in areas. To
this end, Qinghai would carry out the emigration in accordance with the VSIP. In
particular, it would allocate irrigated farm land in the move-in area to each migrant
household and each household currently living in or using land in the move-in area in
amounts and under arrangements acceptable to the Bank, including a written lease
agreement for a minimum of 30 years on terms acceptable to the Bank and exemption
from agricultural taxes for the first 3 years of the lease. Qinghai would also implement
its Local Beneficiary Participation Action Plan in accordance with an implementation
plan acceptable to the Bank4. Under this implementation plan, Qinghai would take a
number of measures to: (a) ensure social stability in the move-in are; (b) ensure that
pastoralists are able to maintain their preferred methods of livelihood; (c) promote
culturally appropriate education for minority nationalities in both move-out and move-in
areas; (d) ensure adequate, culturally appropriate access of people in both areas to
health care services; and (e) integrate cultural preferences of all nationalities involved in
the migration. In addition, prior to any migration to the move-in area, Qinghai would
carry out a study to update its assessment of the social needs of both migrating
households and households living in or using land in the move-in area and recommend
measures to update the VSIP on the basis of this study. Once the VSIP is updated to take
into account the Bank's views on the study and its recommendations, Qinghai would
undertake a pilot voluntary settlement program to move up to 200 households in one-
village into the move-in area Prior to undertaking any further settlement in the move-in
area, Qinghai would report to the Bank on the results of the pilot program and revise the
VSIP to take into account the views of the Bank on the report and its recommendations.
Qinghai would: (a) monitor and evaluate implementation of the VSIP in accordance with
indicators acceptable to the Bank; (b) prepare and furnish an annual report on the
implementation of the VSIP to the Borrower and the Bank not later than January 31 of
each year for review; and (c) based on the report, revise the VSIP in agreement with the
Bank. Qinghai would employ independent experts with terms of reference, qualifications,
and experience acceptable to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1999, to assist in
monitoring and evaluating the VSIP. Finally, within 3 years after commencement of VSIP
4The implementation plan is set out in a supplemental letter to the Project Agreement, which is included in
the package of the legal agreements made available to the Bank's Executive Directors.



40
implementation, Qinghai will: (a) carry out a study to evaluate the social and
environmental impact of the VSIP on the move-out counties and to recommend measures
to enhance environmental sustainability and living conditions in these counties; and (b)
implement the study's recommendations, taking into account the Bank's views on the
matter (page 16).
(xii)   Gansu would take all measures required on its part to ensure that the labor mobility
program is implemented on a voluntary basis and in a manner designed to ensure safe
and equitable working and living conditions fior the participating laborers. Gansu would
monitor and evaluate this program in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank,
and would prepare, with the assistance of independent experts employed not later than
December 31, 1999, an annual report cover^ing, inter alia the employment selection
process, the safety, treatment and living conditions of the placed workers and the impact
of the remittances on the workers 'families, ald furnish this report to the Bank not later
than December I of each year for review. The labor mobility program would be revised,
based on the report's recommendations, and taking into account the Bank's views on the
matter (page 16).
(xiii)  The PPs would ensure that each village in their Project areas would prepare and
implement annual livestock and grassland management plans to ensure acceptable
livestockfeed balances and environmentally sustainable use of grassland The PPs would
ensure that all village grassland used under the Project is leased to the users for a
minimum of 30 year under conditions designed to ensure the land's use in accordance
with the grassland management plans. The PPs would monitor and report to the Bank
annually on the livestock balances in these villages and adjust their plans to ensure
continued acceptable livestock feed balances and environmentally sustainable grassland
use, taking into account the views of the Bank on the matter (page 16).
(xiv)  Each PP would ensure that all persons affected by the Project fully participate in the
Project's design and implementation and receive social and economic benefits from the
Project that are compatible with their cultural preferences. To that end, the PPs would:
(a) carry out the Project in accordance with their Local Beneficiary Participation Action
Plan; (b) monitor the implementation of these plans in accordance with indicators
acceptable to the Bank; (c) report to the Bank on the results of this monitoring; and (d)
introduce revisions to these plans, as agreed with the Bank in order to achieve the plans'
objectives (page 22).
(xv)   The PPs would carry out their respective RIAPs in a manner designed to improve the
living standards and production levels of all persons suffering involuntary loss of shelter,
productive assets, access to productive assets, income, or means of livelihood as a result
of works under the Project that cause a change in land or water use. The PPs would: (a)
monitor the implementation of their RAPs in accordance with indicators acceptable to
the Bank; (b) report to the Bank on the results of this monitoring; and (c) introduce
revisions to the RAPs, as agreed with the Bank in order to achieve the plans' objectives.
If any sub-projects financed out of sub-loans would involve resettlement, the resettlement
would be carried out in accordance with a resettlement plan which has been (a) prepared
on the basis of a policy framework acceptable to the Bank and (b) approved by the Bank
(page 24).
(xvi)  The PPs would carry out their respective joarts of the Project in accordance with
appropriate environmental management practices acceptable to the Bank (page 28).



41
(xvii) Qinghai would recruit qualified engineering consultants by November 30, 1999, to
supervise the construction of the dams (page 29).
(xviii) Qinghai would: (a) conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design and
construction of the Project Dams during construction and at the start of operations; (b)
report to the Bank on these reviews and any recommended changes to be introduced into
design, construction or operation of the dams; and (c) introduce such changes, taking
into account the views of the Bank on the matter. To assist it in these reviews, Qinghai
would continue to employ the Dam Safety Panel. Qinghai would prepare and furnish an
operation and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness plan for the Project
Dams to the Bank not later than December 31, 2001, and would adopt these plans, taking
into account the Bank's views on the matter. Annual inspections of the dams would be
undertaken after their completion to identify and rectify any deficiencies in their
condition or operation (page 29).
(xix)  Qinghai would ensure that irrigation water charges are established upon completion of
its project irrigation system and collected at rates sufficient to cover operation and
maintenance costs of this system as they are incurred and a reasonable portion of its
capital costs over a period of not more than 30 years. The schedule of water charges and
timetable for its establishment would be furnished to the Bank not later than December
31, 1999 for the Bank's review. The charges would be reviewed annually and adjusted as
necessary. Qinghai would maintain a separate accounting for water charges collected
and use these amounts for the operation, maintenance and capital costs of the system
(page 34).
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[X] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.



42
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
The project is in compliance with: i) OD4.0 1, Environmental Assessment, with adoption
of an Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan; ii) OD 4.20, Indigenous People with a
project design that reflects the concerns of minority nationalities as reported in the Social
Assessments; iii) OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement involving land acquisition in the three PPs;
iv) OD 4.37, Dam Safety with the appointment of a Dam Safety Review Panel in Qinghai and
implementation of recommendations made by the Planel; v) BP 10.02, Financial Management,
with the adoption of a Financial Management System; and vi) OP 11, Procurement, with the
completion of a Procurement Assessment. No pesticides or herbicides would be procured under
the Loan/Credit. Documentation concerning environment and resettlement aspects of the Project
was not provided to the Public Infornation Center (PIC) prior to appraisal as mandated under the
Bank public disclosure guideline. These documents are now available at the PIC.
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
eros Ak lu               Geo    B.Fox                 ukon Huang  - t
Team Leader               Secto& anager              Country Director



43
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
Poverty alleviation through    . ............. Provincial population below   .Annual Report issued by SSB  China is able to avoid any major
economically, environmentally    poverty line reduced.       based on rural household       economic and financial crises
and socially sustainable rural                               surveys.                       and maintain its poverty
development.                   Illiteracy, infant and maternal                              reduction priority in the western
rates reduced.                Project environmental and     regions.
groundwater monitoring reports.
Crop lands and water quality in                             Government extends the 8-7 Pfan
project areas meet standards set                            (1994-2000) beyond 2000 and
by the Provincial EPBs.                                     maintains the current level of
funding in real terms.
Conversion of degraded lands
into artificial pastures and other                          China continues to pursue its
perennial crops.                                            education and health targets to be
achieved by 2000.
Provincial EPBs have sufficient
capacity to monitor and enforce
the environmental standards and
_   _   _  _             ~~~~~~~guidelines.
Chronic poverty of absolute poor  Increased marketable surplus of  Annual ME report issued   Agricultural prices provide
in project areas alleviated.   crop and livestock.           based on sample project and    adequate production incentives.
control group surveys.
Altemative off-farm                                         Financial aid for education and
employment opportunities      Six-monthly project progress  health services provided to poor
created.                      reports.                      households.
Primary school enrollment and   Bank review mission reports.    Gansu and Inner Mongolia
completion rates increased with   Mid-termn Review.         implement their pipeline
emphasis on female and                                      education projects successfully.
minority students.            Project Implementation
Completion Report.
Access to affordable health
services increased.
Farners'/herders'  access  to
markets and other social services
enhanced.



44
Narrative Summary                 Key Pe rman                         i      and           Critical Assumnptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
Outputs:                                                                                  ( .  .Outputs to Objectives)
1. Land and Household
Development
1. I Crop activities enhanced.  Annual production of 269,000    Annual Project Implementation   Farmers remain eager to move to
tons of grain, 150,000 tons of    Plan.                   newly irrigated lands.
cash crop products, 70,000 tons
of fruit at full development.  Annual audited project accounts. Farmers adopt packages of
environmentally friendly
1.2 Fishery and livestock     Annual production of 40 tons of  Bi-annual progress report.  agricultural inputs and farm
production improved.          fresh water aquatic products, 3.2                         technologies.
million heads of animals and 3   Annual poverty reduction and
million tons of other animal  environmental impact        Livestock production undertaken
products at full development.    monJitoring and evaluation  on the basis of agreed actions.
report.
1.3 Tree plantation completed  1.5 million cubic meters of                               GMSs monitor village feed
timber at final cut.         Annual livestock and grassland   balances.
management plan by each
village.                     Townships provide relevant
agricultural adaptive research
Banl; mission review reports.    and extension services to
villages.
Mid-.term review report.
ABC extends branch services in
Implementation Completion    project townships.
Report.
Qinghai completes the main
electric grid line to Xiangride
town.
Sustainability of Gansu crop and
livestock development program.
2. Irriyation and Land
Improvement                                                Qing,hai's annual water charge
2.1 Storage reservoirs constructed. One new reservoir of 40 m  report.
height and 26 million cubic
meter storage constructed and an Qinghai Dam Safety Panel's
existing reservoir of 10 m height report and plans.
renovated by 2003.
2.2 Wastelands reclaimed and   19,200 ha of new lands and
rainfed lands irrigated producing   34,050 ha of rainfed lands
grain, fruits, vegetables and fodder irrigated for agricultural
for livestock.                production by 2005.



45
3. Rural Infrastructure
3.1 New rural roads constructed.   216 km of class III/IV roads  Project Progress Reports.  Implementation of the
constructed by 2003.                                        resettlement action plans is
effective and satisfactory to all
3.2 New drinking wells          5,060 of shallow wells, 821 deep                            parties.
constructed.                   tube wells and 5641 shallow
tube wells constructed by 2003.
3.3 New electric distribution lines  410 villages connected and                              Qinghai completes the main
extended to project villages.   receiving reliable electricity by                           electric grid line to Xiangride
2004.                                                       town.
4. Rural Enterprises
4.1 Small scale and household-    Number of facilities        ABC reports to PMOs.          Non-state sector enterprises
based rural enterprises established  constructed/upgraded by 2005.                          apply for agro-processing loans..
and or upgraded.
5. Labor Mobility
5.1 Labor export agencies       65,700  surplus rural workers Gansu's annual labor mobility    Demand for labor in Gansu and
strengthened.                   voluntarily placed in off-farm  report.                     other provinces identified.
employment by 2005.
6. Voluntary Settlement
6.1 Settlement plan established and 57,800 people voluntarily settled  Qinghai's VSIP implementation  All nationalities have "buy-in" to
operational.                   in Balong, Qinghai and 4,000    report.                      settlement plan.
herders/farmers voluntarily
participate in the Project by                                Potential public security and
2006.                                                       inter-ethnic conflicts are
anticipated and mitigated in
Two new townships and 21                                    'move-in' area.
villages established.
Herders weTcome opportunity to
pursue mixed herding/farming
strategy.
7. Social Sector Services
7.1 Primary schools and basic  21 primary/secondary schools    Provincial Education and Health  Qinghai Provincial Government
health centers established and  and 23 health centers established  Bureaus Reports' to PMOs.  releases annual budget on time.
upgraded.                       by 2005.



46
8. Institutional Building &
Project Management
8.1 Project Management Offices   Three Provincial, six Prefecture,  Progress Reports.      Government at different levels
established and staffed; and   and 34 County PMOs                                          carries out MOUs effectively.
Memoranda of Understanding     established and fully staffed by
signed with Line Agencies by mid  mid 1999. Annual
1999.                          Implementation Plans on
schedule.
8.2 PMOs at provincial, prefecture  MED plan adopted by 2000.
and county levels, and township
project workstations and village
project implementation groups
established.
8.3 Technical Advisory Groups    Training program launched and   Progress Reports.         PMOs assign training specialists
established.                   full coverage of project staff by                           on time.
2002 and farmers/herders by
2004.
8.4 Poverty Impact Monitoring,                               SSB Report.                    SSB assigns experiences staff.
Evaluation, and Dissemination
(MED) plan prepared.
8.5 Project staff, farmers/herders
trained.



47
X~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        ,
A. Land and Household          Total: 141.0 mill; IBRD/IDA:  Project Launch Workshop     Central, provincial, prefecture
Development                   85.0 mill; local co-financing:   Report.                   and county governments approve
56.0 mill.                                                and release project counterpart
1. Crops                      44.0 mill.                   Six-monthly Project Progress    funds on time.
2. Livestock and Fishery      63.0 mill.                   Report.
3. Forest and Grassland       23.7 mill.                                                 Chairs of Provincial Poverty
4. Support Services            10.3 mill.                  Bank supervision mission      Leading Groups ensure
B. Irrigation and Land        Total: 86.3 mill; IBRD/IDA:   reports.                     execution of PIP.
Improvement                   42.2 mill; local co-financing:
44.1 mill.                  Mid-term Review.              Village committees mobilize
Implementation Completion    resources (cash and in kind) to
C. Rural Infrastructure       Total: 28.7 mill; IBRD/tDA:   Report.                      meet share of project financing-
11.9 mill; local co-financing:                            plan.
16.8 mill.
1. Rural Road                 5.6 mill.                                                  Village committees encourage
2. Drinking Water Supply      8.7 mill                                                   beneficiaries participation in all
3. Rural Electrification       14.4 mill                                                 aspects of the project.
D. Rural Enterprises          Total: 13.6 mill; IBRD/IDA:
6.8 mill; local co-financing:                             ACWF provides institutional
6.8 mill.                                                 support to village committees to
ensure equitable female
E. Labor Mobility (Gansu)     Total: 15.7 mill; IBRD/IDA:                                participation.
7.7 mill; local co-financing:
8.0 mill.
F. Voluntary Settlement       Total: 6.5 mill; IBRDIEDA:
(Qinghai)                     0.1 mill; local co-financing:
6.4 mill.
G. Social Sector Services     Total: 8.7 mill; local co-
financing: 8.7 mill.
1. Education                   3.6 mill.
2. Health                      5.1 mill.
H. Institutional Building &   Total: 10.6 mill; IBRD/IDA:
Project Management            5.7 mill; local co-financing:
4.9 mill.
1. Institutional Building     6.5 mill.
2. Independent Monitoring      1.3 mill.
3. Project Management         2.8 mill.
TOTAL PROJECT COST             311.1 million
IBRD/IDA                       160.0 million
Local co-financing             151.1 million



48
Annex 2: Project Description
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
A. Overview
Project Development Objective
The objective of the proposed Western Poverty Reduction Project (WPRP) is to alleviate chronic
poverty for the absolute poor living in remote and inaccessible villages of Gansu and Qinghai
Provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (hereinafter referred to as Project Provinces -
PPs). The project would enable poor households in the selected poor counties to raise their
incomes through increasing grain and livestock production sufficient to meet their basic food and
clothing needs and, in many cases, also generate marketable surplus to improve their living
standards. Access to health, education and other rural services would also be improved for the
poor households. The development objective has emerged from the expectations and aspirations
of the target population surveyed during project preparation. The proposed project is the fourth in
a series of Bank-assisted, targeted poverty reduction projects in China supporting the
Government's Eight-Seven Poverty Reduction Plan (8-7 Plan).
Project Components
The project includes eight complementary components with the following budgetary allocations
(for a total of US $311.1 million):
Component 1 - Land and Household Development    (U$$ 141 million)
Component 2 - Irrigation and Land Improvement  (US$ 86.3 million)
Component 3 - Rural Infrastructure            (US$ 28.7 million)
Component 4 - Rural Enterprises               (US$ 13.6 million)
Component 5 - Labor Mobility                  (US$ 15.7 million)
Component 6 - Voluntary Settlement            (US$ 6.5 million)
Component 7 - Social Sector Services          (US$ 8.7 million)
Component 8 - Institutional Building and Project  (US$ 10.6 million)
Management
B. Component 1 - Land and Household Development (US$141.0 million)
Goal and Strategy
The goal of the land and household development component is the promotion of environmentally
sustainable agricultural and rural development as the primary means of reducing poverty among
the target population. The development objective would be to put in place the institutional
arrangements and management and operational systems that would give the target 377,800
project households greater access to productive land, water, inputs and services needed to effect
sustainable agricultural and rural development, and to improve their economic and social well-
being. The broad strategy proposed under the project in Gansu and Inner Mongolia would aim at
progressively changing, over time, the farm socio-economic system from one which is almost
entirely focused on food self-sufficiency to one that stresses food security and maximizing cash
income. An important project goal of the Land and Household Development component would be
the promotion of agricultural land use sustainability by shifting free-ranging or herded



49
livestock-an important cash resource for poor households-from grazing on deteriorating
natural pastures to cut-and-carry feeding using crop byproducts, forages, and home-grown grain
products. As productivity and incomes increase, steeper slope land and other areas subject to
severe wind erosion and not suitable for sustainable crop production would be progressively
retired from cultivation and sown to forage legumes and grasses, or protective trees. The
consequent improvement in soil and water conservation and progressive reduction of soil erosion
(wind, sheet, gully) would also, over time, contribute towards raising sustainable crop production.
In Qinghai the strategy would be to reduce population pressure in the six poverty counties in the
mountainous eastern region through voluntary settlement of about 57,800 persons on newly
developed irrigated land. This would also improve the living standards of those who remain
behind through increasing farmland and thus income and grain production per capita.
Simultaneously, steep land in these areas would be progressively retired from cropping thus
reducing continued soil erosion and environmental degradation.
Selection of Project Activities
Beneficiary villages and households participated in the determination of a 'menu' of 45 different
land and household development component activities; they will continue to play the key role in
actual selection of these activities during implementation. The development of several activities
by a single household or single village would promote improvement of the households' farming
systems. The activities include both short-term and longer-term investments, such as integrated
crop and animal production, and tree crop development. The project combines the activities into
individual village development plans, the design of which has reached an advanced stage of
preparation. The average investment per household is sufficient to give each household in each of
the 3,171 project villages the opportunity to participate in the component activities. An upper
limit to the investment per household has been established to further ensure access to project
benefits by all households.
Component Activities
To achieve desired project outputs in accordance with the development objective, the investment
activities would include: i) intensifying crop production by expanding the use of proven improved
and environmentally-friendly technologies to economically raise crop yields; ii) introducing and
expanding cash crops--vegetables, tree crops, fruits; iii) converting from free-range to confined-
feeding production (sheep, goats, cattle, pigs, rabbits, poultry) through small-scale, integrated
crop/livestock production; iv) in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, expanding gravity and groundwater
irrigation systems and rainwater collection cisterns, and improving soil and water conservation on
slope land through terracing and other conservation measures, and in Qinghai constructing a new
irrigation system to develop 19,200 hectares by reclaiming desert wasteland for an integrated
oasis agricultural and forestry production system (see Irrigation and Land Improvement
Component); v) improving the quality of farm level technical services through skill upgrading of
County, township and village technicians; and vi) developing improved and more economical and
environmentally sound technologies through adaptive research and on-farm demonstration.
Crop Production
The crop production sub-projects would include investments in improved technology to increase
food, cash, and tree crops production. In Inner Mongolia the main focus would be on food crops
(maize, wheat, potato, rice, buckwheat, soybean, sunflower). Gansu would include food crops
(maize, wheat, potato, broad bean) and cash crops (vegetables, hemp and Chinese medicinal
herbs).



50
The project would promote improved food crops technology packages for 30,900 hectares in
Gansu and 87,200 hectares in Inner Mongolia. It would supply households with the first year's
requirements of quality inputs (seeds, plastic mulch, and pesticides) for corn (36,700 hectares),
wheat (1,400 hectares), and potato (32,000 hectares). Improved technology packages would also
be provided for irrigated corn (1,900 hectares), irrigated and dry land wheat (30,600 hectares),
buckwheat (6,300 hectares), soybean (3,200 hectares), broad bean (3,090 hectares), hybrid
rapeseed (1,980 hectares), wheat/corn inter-crop (580 hectares), and paddy (330 hectares). In
Gansu, about 9,000 hectares of cash crop development would be supported. Hemp (1,040
hectares) and four species of medicinal plants and tubers would be introduced in project villages
on 7,780 hectares and 220 hectares of commercial vegetables would be developed.
Production investments in Qinghai would include the initial land development (clearing, leveling
and cultivation) for crops, forage and tree planting on 19,200 hectares; soil fertility improvement
(green manure crop before crop production begins); investments for the first crops to be sown by
the migrants (seed, fertilizer, plastic mulch, pesticides, etc.) and establishment of an area (679
hectares) for the production of various crop and forage grass seeds; two technical service centers,
applied research and demonstration. The main crolps to be grown include grain (wheat and
barley), potatoes, rape, beans and vegetables (onions, garlic, cabbages). Forage crops (astragalus,
vetch, elymus, trifolium, oats) would be grown as an integral part of crop rotation.
Livestock Production
Qinghai. Some 13,600 households would be settled in the project area and engage in irrigated
crop and forage production. Nine livestock models have been prepared (Table 2-1), based on
different household size and cropping patterns. Winter forage will consist of ensilaged greenfeed
and byproducts and ammoniated straws and stalks. Oilseed cake, wheat bran, and barley will be
available for grain feeding. Livestock production in the Qinghai settlement area would be based
entirely on the stall-fed, cut-and-carry feeding system. No natural grassland would be utilized. Pig
breeding and fattening, sheep and cashmere goat breeding and fattening, and household chicken
and egg production, would constitute the 'menu' of investments. The majority of households
would raise a small number of animals, largely for household consumption but with one or two
surplus animals sold for cash income. A number of households would, however, specialize in one
type of animal production system such as pig fattening, pig breeding or sheep/goat breeding. Feed
and forage resources would be derived from irrigated forage and crop lands and would include
ammoniated crop straws (a technology widely used on small farms in China), grain byproducts
(bran), farm-grown forage, and, where required, purchased or home produced concentrates. Small
forage areas would be planted on each farm while specialized forage production farms (about
2,880 hectares in total) would be designated within the settlement area. Each household would be
allocated land (about 0.256 hectares) including the forage production farms. Forage would not
include alfalfa for which sufficient precipitation is not available, but would include more hardy
forage varieties, including forage oats, astragalus spp., medicago spp., elymus spp., and other anid
grass species. A conditionality of household-based livestock financing would be a proven self-
sufficiency in forage or grain. Livestock numbers would be based on feed balance calculations.
Grazing on the natural grasslands surrounding the settlement area would be prohibited. Local
Grassland Monitoring Stations (GMS) supervised by Provincial Project Management Offices
(PPMOs) and Provincial Environmental Protection Bureaus (EPBs) would spot check the
accuracy of feed balances and compliance with confined feeding.
The project would finance low-cost, adobe and plastic cover livestock sheds, ammoniation pits,
capital stock purchase, forage establishment costs and, for specialized households, one third of
the cost of initial feed purchases. A number of households would specialize in forage processing
with small low-cost straw and chaff cutters. At full production in project-year twelve incremental
livestock population in the Qinghai settlement is expected to be about 15,600 draught animals,



51
64,000 cashmere goats, 116,000 fattening sheep, 23,000 pigs and some 221,000 poultry. Annual
output is estimated to be about 1,600 tons of pork, 3,300 tons of mutton/goat meat, 400 tons of
wool, 23 tons of cashmere, 1,030 tons of goat milk, and 1,240 tons of eggs.
Gansu. The livestock sub-project in this province would be implemented under two conditions
that differ from those in Inner Mongolia. The Gansu component is designed to strengthen
integrated crop/livestock production system (ICLS), based on household production, rather than
greatly expanding ruminant livestock numbers. First, crop production, on which project livestock
will depend heavily for byproduct and planted forage feeding, faces harsh environmental
conditions in the form of frequent droughts and short growing seasons. This can lead to
periodically depressed crop yields during drought years which may increase forage shortages.with
which to sustain livestock. Second, production technologies in Gansu are not as far advanced,
requiring more extension, demonstration and training inputs to make herders/farners more
familiar with ICLS. It is the cropping system under this sub-project, rather than grassland
integrity, which would be the limiting factor with respect to ensuring acceptable crop yields and
adequate animal forage supplies. As a consequence, planned incremental project livestock
numbers have been kept relatively small, and the project will focus more on establishing and
refining ICLS-and having this operate more efficiently-than on producing more livestock.
Livestock development interventions in Gansu include pig and cattle fattening, sheep and goat
production by individual households to supplement farm crop income, mixed livestock
production systems using remaining natural grassland areas, commercial large scale breeding pig
and cattle fattening production operations (to be financed under the rural enterprises component),
soft-shelled turtle production, and fish production. Most feed for ruminant animals and pig
production and turtles and fish production would be obtained from crop byproducts and
manufactured feed sources and have little additional impact on natural grassland ecosystems.
Fodder legumes would be fed directly to livestock or processed into higher quality feeds.
Byproducts of maize and broad bean and ammoniated grain straw are useful feed. A large amount
of surplus crop byproducts and the technology to improve feed quality are available. Based on
1999 forage balance determinations the project would have, at full production, a 42 percent
forage surplus over incremental livestock demand.
In Gansu, grazing on natural grasslands is planned in three of the twelve project counties. This
represents a total of 8,050 hectares (of 43,200 hectares) of natural grassland area (19 percent) in
these counties. These grasslands are located in southern Gansu occupying valleys in hill country.
Crop cultivation which took place on the slopelands adjoining these grass-covered valleys has
caused erosion in the past but will now be stopped as the result of newly revised and strengthened
grassland management regulations. Rainfall in these areas ranges from 400-750 millimeters/year.
The project would rehabilitate these abandoned slope-croplands by providing ground cover with
cultivating alfalfa on the higher, 15-25 degree slopelands. Cropping would then be confined to
base (terraced or non-terraced) slopeland only, which directly adjoins the valley grasslands below-.
the cultivated forage slopeland above.
The project grassland itself remains in good to excellent condition, mainly as the result of a
rotational summer grazing program (from June-September only) which is already in place.
Grazing is by sheep only, and at acceptable stocking densities. Land deterioration in this area is
caused more by crop production on slopelands than by grazing. The project would make a
positive impact by relocating cropping and covering the higher-level, formerly cropped
slopelands with alfalfa and other legumes and grasses (2,300 hectares in total). This would
provide ground cover by perennial forage crops, to be used as livestock forage.
Inner Mongolia. "New thinking" is developing in Inner Mongolia with the realization that
further deterioration of grassland will inevitably result in a progressive loss of livelihood in an



52
area where 15 percent of its GDP comes from livestock production, which employs 70 percent of
its people. Eight percent of the project area, equal to 1,370 hectares, comprises natural grassland
to be grazed under the project. This grassland is used by participating households currently
grazing livestock under non-project conditions. Participating households will be engaged in
mixed crop and livestock farming, utilizing their own crop byproducts as the main source of
ruminant forage for cattle and sheep, and returning manure to their croplands. The management
of this land would fall under the villages' grassland management plans to ensure sustainable use.
With proper implementation, the use of these lancls would become a pilot demonstration of
sustainable land use. In addition to the above, 2,000 hectares of deteriorated grassland would be
rehabilitated and reserved for forage harvesting only, with an additional 2,200 hectares to be
fenced off for controlled grazing.
The Inner Mongolian government represented by the GMS has given priority to the project areas
in its own reseeding and other grassland rehabilitation programs currently underway. The village
project implementation plans for the livestock sub-project would incorporate existing measures to
protect agricultural lands. The project would finance beef cattle, sheep, goats, meat pigs, rabbits
and poultry, construction of livestock and feed improvement facilities such as fences, silage pits,
and animal sheds, necessary to support livestock production.
Funds from each investment category would be used to develop a basic livestock production
system for farm and herder households who qualify for loans. Since most poor households have
no livestock or have insufficient numbers, they will need access to project funds to purchase the
necessary livestock and materials to construct livestock shelters and feed storage facilities.
Construction of livestock or feed preparation facilities at farm households would focus on
livestock shelters and feed treatment and storage facilities since all roughage used as livestock
feed would be obtained as fodder or crop byproducts. Project beneficiaries must also have access
to feed resources of sufficient quantity and quality to satisfy animal feed demands and the
necessary husbandry inputs to produce a marketable livestock product.
Household livestock production would differ according to area and predominant agriculture
production system. Farm household beneficiaries' cropping areas would focus on fattening beef
cattle and raising small stock, while herder households in pasture areas would focus on the
breeding and fattening of large stock.
Inner Mongolian herder households would develop integrated household pasture and fodder
production systems called caokulun. A caokulun involves one hectare of land protected by a wall
and tree-shrub shelterbelt in which irrigated fodder and grain crops are produced to benefit two
households. Associated with the caokulun is an area of natural pasture assigned to each
household, thatis, each household has a 30-year lease on the area on which household livestock
are permitted to graze, and which will fall under the prevailing grassland management regulations
to be monitored by the project, under the guidelines outlined below. The livestock feed produced-
by the caokulun is used to supplement natural pasture forage obtained by grazing during the
summer and fall and to provide a full feed ration to household livestock during the winter and
spring. Rehabilitation of degraded natural pasture through seeding and grazing management using
deferment and rest at critical plant physiological stages is a primary goal of the caokulun.
Supplementing forage obtained by grazing during the grazing season and providing full feed
during other seasons is designed to relieve grazing pressure at critical times to improve the
ecological condition of natural pasture ecosystems.
Basic Implementation Principles. A set of basic principles and operating guidelines has been
developed that will ensure successful implementation of the livestock sub-projects in each
province. These guidelines are based on existing legaLl and regulatory frameworks and contain the
necessary conditionalities to ensure compliance. Implementation will take place in accordance



53
with the following five basic principles which can be used as the basis for livestock investment
decision criteria:
*  Natural pasture land use will conform  to existing grassland management and
monitoring laws and regulations;
*  Ruminant livestock feeding will be based foremost on available crop byproducts and
forages rather than on grazing natural pasture in order to minimize pressure on fragile
grasslands;
*  Project participants who lease crop and/or grasslands will receive long-term (30+
years) land leases under which they will have the rights but also the responsibilities
of land use;
*  Livestock densities will be based solely on realistically prepared and annually
updated feed balances for green forage, crop byproducts, and feed grains; seasonal
highs and lows in spring and fall; and types of livestock to be raised; and
* The project village and its local government will be the basic unit to develop,
implement and update grass and cropland management plans, and be responsible for
their implementation in accordance with the above listed guidelines.
Monitoring and Enforcement of Agricultural Land Use. The five principles outlined above
will especially concern the use of natural grasslands, and will be monitored and enforced by
existing regulatory agencies, namely the project the County-level GMS and the local EPB.
Village Project Implementation Groups (VPIGs) will bear primary responsibility for preparing
and annually updating village area workplans. These will include grassland and livestock
production monitoring indicators; updated feed balances; livestock inventory limits for the next
implementation period in accordance with these balances; updated County livestock marketing
reports; and other physical, financial and institutional performance indicators. County-level
GMSs are committed to spot check overstocking and enforce the existing regulatory framework.
Provincial governments will ensure that GMSs receive adequate budgeting and resources to carry
out their tasks. Bank supervision missions will review the workplans and implementation of the
livestock sub-project and monitoring activities at 6-month intervals. Quality assurance spot
checks will be carried out by technical staff from independent provincial-level institutions and by
Regional PMO staff. Existing monitoring indicators from the Environmental Impact Assessment
report pertaining to grassland and agricultural land use will also be employed. Guidelines for the
preparation of feed balances and monitoring indicators for grassland management and livestock
production are included in the PIP.
Household Livestock Production Models. The three provincial project areas each have a
number of different livestock production models. Cattle, sheep, and feeder pigs will be included
in all project areas. These form the "core" livestock in the project. Inner Mongolia will alsQ
introduce meat chickens and rabbits, Gansu Province will introduce fish and soft-shelled turtle;
and Qinghai Province will introduce cashmere goat and laying chickens as well as draft animals.
Although the core livestock in the household models are similar, considerable difference is found
between sub-project areas in the modeled livestock components. Inner Mongolia has variable
models while Gansu has eleven basic variants and Qinghai has nine. Although all models rely
primarily on feedstuffs obtained from sources other than natural pasture, models that have cattle
or sheep/goats, especially the Inner Mongolia sub-project area, are programmed to-use limited
natural pasture, attached to the caokulun, during the summer and fall seasons only.



54
Table 2-1: Household Livestock Production Schedule by Project Province
Inner Mongolia   138,820         Pig, Sheep/Goat,    a. IOS/2P               a. 12                                 a. NPG/CC
Cattle, Rabbit,     b. 2C/IPs                b. 13                                b. NPG/CC
Chickens            c. IOG/IPs               c. 11                                c.NPG/CC
d. 4S12P                d. 6                                 d. NPG/CC
e. 20S/2P               e. 22                                e. NPG/CC
f. 2C/2P                f. 12                                f NPG/CC
g.3P                    g.3                                  g.CC
h. 2C                   h. 10                                h. NPG/CC
i. 2C/4S/2P             i. 16                                i: NPG/CC -
j. 4S/IPs               j. 7                                 j. NPG/CC
k. 20S                  k. 20                                k. NPG/CC
GansLI           195,150        Pig, Sheep, Cattle,   a. lC/2S/2P            a. 9           j. 18197              a. CC/PF
Fish, Turtle        b. IC/2P                b. 7            k. 24081              b. CC/PF
c. 0.3C/0.5S/3.3P       c. 7           1.31726               c. CC/PF
d. 3S/2P                d. 5           m. 21284              d. CCIPF
e. 4S/2P                e. 6           n. 17408              e. NPG/CC
f IC/3S/2P              f 9            o. 24831              f. CC/PF
g. 2P                   g. 2           p. 33781              g. CC/PF
h. IC/3S/2P             h. 10           q. 22657             h.
i. IC/2.5S/2P           i. 10          r. 193985             NPG/CC/PF
j. 1F                                   s. 900                i.
k. IT                                  t. 930                INPG/CC/PF
j. PF
k. PF
Qinghai          13,637         Pig, Sheep, Goat,   a. lD/IlS/2P/20-f        a. 15          j. 3089                a. CC/CFG
Poultry, Draft      b.lD/5G/I lS/2P/20H      b. 17          k. 4324               b. CC/CFG
Animals             c. ID/IOG/6S/201i        c. 18          1. 1730               c. CC/CFG
d.lD/5G/2S/20Hi2P       d. 10          m. 875                d. CC/CFG
e. ID/8G/14S/20]i       e. 25           n. 722               e. CC/CFG
f. D/5G/21S/20R'2P      f. 29          o. 656                f. CC/CFG
g. ID/15G/9S/201.       g. 25           p. 661               g. CC/CFG
h. D/5G/27S/2P/20H      h. 35           q. 663               h. CC/CFG
i. ID/5G/12S/2P/20H     i. 20          r. 854                i. CC/CFG
11 C = breeding cows and feeder cattle, S =breeding ewes and feeder lamnbs, G= goat (usually cashmere goat), P = feeder meat pigs or breeding sows, F
= Fish, T = Turtle, R = Rabbit, D = Draft animal (Horse, Donkey, Yak, Mule),. H = chicken.
2/ Household livestock models in Inner Mongolia are variable according to village potential compared with livestock models in Gansu and Qinsghai sub-
projects.
3/ CC = cut and carry, NPG = natural pasture grazing, CFG = crop field aftermath grazing, PF = prepared feed
Feed Balances. To ensure that the impact of incremental project-supported livestock production
will not contribute to further degradation of natural pasture ecosystems, carefully designed feed
balances will be employed to monitor feed availability and livestock needs. These have been
designed to take into account livestock species, forage and grain balances, and seasonal (spring
highs and fall lows) balances. Meeting the nutritional requirements of incremental livestock
generated under the project solely by grazing during all seasons of the year would exert
unacceptable grazing pressure with severe impacts on the ecological conditions of natural pasture
lands. A considerable effort has been made to develop accurate feed balance estimates. These
feed balances would ensure that feed requirements of incremental project livestock would be met
without increasing grazing pressure. Annual feed requirements of livestock purchased by project
beneficiaries in the three project provinces will be met from several different sources. These
include: legume fodder crops (astragalus and alfalfa) developed on marginal cropland in Inner
Mongolia and Gansu, fenced and irrigated fodder and grain crop areas developed by individual
households in Inner Mongolia and Qinghai, natural pasture leased to individual households to



55
graze livestock during portions of the year in Inner Mongolia, crop byproducts such as grain
straw, corn stover, and potato stems which will be ensilaged or treated to improve nutrient
content in the three project provinces, and grazing of interstitial vegetation between crop fields in
Gansu. Further details on feed balances and feed balance monitoring are located in the PIP.
Livestock Phasing. The annual increase of the number of livestock is indicated in Table 2-2.
Converted into Sheep Units (SU), this increase provides a broad guideline with which to assess
available forage and grain resources, as prepared by the provinces. As indicated above, livestock
numbers will be determined on the basis of available feedstuffs and not vice versa.
Table 2-2: Incremental Livestock Numbers, by Project Year,
Expressed in Actual and SU values
Inner       Breeding Cow           6,950      12,373       11,817        6,918      3,295        1,647      43,000      215,000
Mongolia    Breeding Sheep       34,369       62,443       63,414       53,143     24,142       12,077     249,588      249,588
Breeding Goat         5,554       10,068       6,988        7,702       2,688,       1,147      34,147      27,318
Breeding Sow          2,642        5,288       5,284        4,475       2,033         978       20,700      62,100
Feeder Pig           32,920       61,608      61,337       49,532      22,529       11,235     239,161     239,161
Total Livestock      82,435      151,780     148,840      121,770      54,687       27,084     586,596
Total SU            114,408     209,834      205,278      156,852      71,395       35,399                 793,167
Gansu       Breeding Cow           3,339       5,140        3,940        3,340      2,756        1,259       19,774      98,870
Feeder Cattle           158         211          211          211         158         107        1,056       4,224
Breeding Sheep       16,071       19,582       18,682      17,482      10,892        6,603      89,312       89,312
Breeding Sow            496         662          662          662        496          330        3,308        9,924
Feeder Pigs          42,125       56,071      49,831       46,127      34,161       18,048     246,363     246,363
Total Livestock      62,189       81,666      73,326       67,822      48,463       26,347     359,813
Total SU             77,011      104,183      91,043       83,139      60,953       32,364                 448,693
Qinghai     Draft                      -         212        1,799        3,222      4,357        2,565       12,155      48,620
Feeder Sheep              -            -         891        2,175       8,276       20,439      31,781       15,891
Cashmere Goa              -         131         1,256       4,182       9,290       21,536      36,395       18,198
Feeder Pig                -         213          632        1,796       5,935        8,997      17,573       17,573
Total Livestock           -         556        4,578       11,375      27,858       53,537      97,904
Total SU                  -        1,127       8,902       17,863      32,146       40,245                  100,281
Total       Livestock         144,624      234,002     226,744      200,967      131,008     106,968     1,044,313
SU                191,419     315,144     305,223      257,853      164,494     108,007                  1,342,141
1/1 he sheep unit (SU) represents a feed intake of 2 kg/day (730 kglyear) with I sheep =1 SU, I mature breeding Cow = S SU, I
mature breeding goat = 0.8 SU, I feeder pig = 1 SU, I sow = 3 SU, and I draft animal = 4 SU.
2/ In Gansu Province, goats are treated as being equal to I SU.
3/ In Qinghai Province, feeder ewes and lambs will be purchased and fattened over a 150 day period and are equal to 0.5 SU.
Forestry Development
The main forestry development would be in the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement area. The Qinghai
Forestry Bureau has considerable experience, and success, with forestry development, including
sand dune stabilization in this high altitude, semi-arid region. A comprehensive program for the
settlement areas includes wind shelterbelts on the perimeter and elsewhere in the project areas,
sand stabilization, road and canal protection, and stream and gully protection. This system would
provide comprehensive protection from the prevailing winds and over time, contribute
significantly to stabilizing and increasing crop production. Fuel wood plantation would be an
integral part of the forestry development.
In Qinghai, the effect of wind is a major constraint to crop production in the project area. It is also
a major factor in soil erosion and desertification. Extensive experience in the Qaidamu basin and
the project area has demonstrated the important contribution that forest protection can make to



56
both reducing wind damage and improving crop production. Under the project, a comprehensive
afforestation program would be implemented. To the west of the main project area, a sand dune
stabilization program would be implemented. The whole project development area would be
completely surrounded by a forest protection belt. This would consist of four supporting belts.
First, on the outside, a belt closed to all grazing ,md fuel wood collection in which suitable
stabilizing grasses and shrubs would be planted; then a belt of low shrub bushes; third, three rows
of higher shrubs; and fourth, three rows of trees (poplus) planted in relation to the prevailing wind
(northwesterly). On the windward side it would be about 500 meters wide (4 belts). On the
leeward side it would be about 350 meters. The poplar trees in the shelterbelt would be expected
to reach a height of about 4 - 4.8 meters within 5 years. Species to be used in the bush belts
include elaeagnus angustifolia; holoxylon sp; tamarix; and nitraria sibirica.
Within the irrigated crop production area, protective shelter belts would be planted along all
canals and roads. The main canal and branch canals would be protected. The flood channels that
pass through the area from south to north would be contained with tree belts. Cropland would be
subdivided into rectangles each about 8- 15 hectares. Vertical intervals between the belts would be
400-600 meters and horizontal about 200-250 meters. The trees would comprise mainly poplar
and willows.
An area would also be planted for fuel wood harvesting. This would include a range of species
including poplar, tamarix, caragana, and haloxylom, among others. All of the trees and shrub
bushes including those to be used for sand stabilization have been proven to be effective in the
project area. Areas would be set aside for cash tree crop production using mainly wolfberry
(lycium chinensis) and, to a lesser extent, seabuckthorn (hippophae rhamnides). The latter is
particularly drought tolerant. Wolfberry is expected to yield the first fruits in about three years
and reach full production in 6-7 years. Each household would be allocated a part of the tree crop
and fuel wood plantations. Forestry development would include an extensive program of adaptive
research and especially demonstrations of new planting techniques, new and improved species
and irrigated forest management. The total area of afforestation would be about 2,862 hectares
including farmland protection-1,204 hectares; sand-wind break-820 hectares, road protection-73
hectares, cash tree crops-400 hectares, and fuel wocd-346 hectares. In addition, it is proposed to
establish a 20 hectare nursery. In the move-out area, 85 percent of the land vacated by the
migrants would be converted into forests (30 percent); natural pasture (10 percent); closed hilly
and mountainous areas (45 percent) for natural revegetation; and the balance (15 percent) would
be terraced and assigned to poor households. The Water and Soil Conservancy Station in
collaboration with the Agriculture, Forestry and Animal Husbandry Bureaus would prepare the
plan and would be implemented by the Qinghai Water Resource Bureau.
The project would support the development of 1:5,538 hectares of perennial crops in Gansu
including apple and pear (3,148 hectares), prickly aLsh (7,862 hectares), walnut (2,289 hectares),
Japanese larch (1,228 hectares), and mulberry, olive and tea (1,011 hectares). Technical packages-
for each crop would include variety selection, pruning, fertilizer application rates, and pesticides.
The packaging has been designed according to local environmental conditions and long terrn
market needs and risks. The project would supervise the provision of certified quality seedlings,
annual application of chemical fertilizers and pesticides until the first year of production.
Forestry investments for Inner Mongolia would take place on land either too steep or unsuited to
cultivation. Most of this land is severely degraded and subject to severe wind erosion. It is also
planned to continue the current policy of retiring unsuitable land from dry land cropping. These
areas would either be sown to suitable pasture species (astragalus, caragana, elymus, etc.) or
planted in "protective" forest or bush. The protective bush areas are able to provide some forage
for livestock, mostly on a cut-and-carry system, or as controlled grazing depending on the locality
and species. The most widely used species for this purpose are those of the caragana varieties.



57
Where suitable, steeper land would also be planted in "wild apricot", which can provide some
economic return. A smaller area would be planted in larch trees for pole and timber purposes. The
total area planted over six years would be about 15, 144 hectares comprised of 396 hectares of
larch trees, 2,076 hectares of wild apricot, and 12,672 hectares of protective forest or bush.
Input Access and Supply
Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), acting as a financial agent for the Provincial Finance Bureaus
(PFBs), would provide credit to farmers for purchase of fertilizers. Credit needs in subsequent
years would be financed by ABC's own sources. The Project Monitoring Offices (PMOs) would
organize the procurement and delivery of other inputs including improved seed, seedlings,.root
stock, plastic film, pesticides, and other agro-chemicals. This system is already being successfully
used in much of the project area. Farmers would thus be free to choose from whom they purchase
fertilizers, whether they are state or non-state sources. Currently, in both Qinghai and Inner
Mongolia, fertilizer and most farm inputs are supplied largely by state outlets. Providing farmers
with cash rather than inputs directly is expected to accelerate the development of input supply
services in both the state and the non-state sectors. Fertilizer, seed and other key inputs are readily
available at the government owned fertilizer and seed supply companies, which have depots in
every township. In Gansu, non-state shops also sell fertilizer and other inputs. Some act as agents
for the State owned companies and sell on commission while others are traders.
Adaptive Research and Demonstrations
A program of adaptive research and demonstrations designed to develop improved and more
economically and environmentally sustainable technologies and systems would be implemented.
Lower cost and risk technologies and systems would be explored. While the detailed design and
implementation would be done in conjunction with the respective research institutions, the
programs would, to the extent possible, be conducted on farms under the supervision of County
and township technicians. As appropriate, the implementation would be done by farmers under
practical but controlled farm conditions. The research would be carried out within a range of
agro-ecological zones and farming systems. To the extent possible, the applied research programs
would be packaged within Farming System Research (FSR) into three main categories: crop
production technologies and systems; animal production technologies and systems; and water
utilization efficiency. These systems would integrate crop and livestock production technologies
(including grasses and forage) and management on both rain-fed and irrigated farms. In all cases,
the technology being tested would be compared to the benchmark system using standard
technology. For each program, the purpose, the specific objective of the research, and the target
area (agro-ecological zone and farming system) would be defined. Key technologies to be tested
would include, but not be limited to:
*  Minimum tillage practices on dry land and the effects over time on soil water
conservation; crop yields, soil organic matter, and most importantly, labor and costs.
The aim would be to develop more economically sustainable cultivation systems
which would improve both soil and water conservation and, over time, crop yields;
*  Trials and demonstrations designed to accelerate the search for new drought tolerant
varieties of the main crops, which are more suited to the drier, drought prone soils
and areas, have greater drought tolerance, lower water requirements, shorter growing
seasons, and lower fertilizer needs;
*  Fertilizer needs, application rates, frequency of applications at various stages of
growth, and most critically, monitoring the cash surplus per hectare from a range of
applications, types of fertilizer and crop. The aim would be to rationalize fertilizer
recommendations so as to improve the efficiency of utilization, reduce costs and
reduce or eliminate the potential for soil and water pollution;



58
*  Improved water saving and utilization techniques for both dry land and irrigated crop
production systems including those for mulch crop production. The aim would be to
test techniques for improving water utilization efficiency and thus the output per unit
of water used. Trials would test newv or improved economical and practical
technologies and systems for reducing seepage losses in water cisterns; portable
spray irrigation techniques; improving water utilization efficiency for irrigated mulch
crop farming;
*  Higher quality fruit trees, mulberry tree improvement and virus free potato
production in Gansu;
*  In Gansu, applied research conducted in alfalfa and olive tree production, and
processing sub-projects; and
*  Farm system research aimed at developing farming systems which would change the
focus from one of subsistence with maximum grain production, to one which
minimizes subsistence grain production and maximizes income from cash crops such
as livestock and where applicable, vegetables, or some other higher value crop. The
system would maximize the area of forage legume-astragalus sp., vicia sp., alfalfa
(where applicable)-as an integral part of the crop rotation. Key performance
indicators would include, among other things: farm income, labor requirements, soil
fertility status including water holding capacity, crop yields, livestock production
coefficients and where applicable, irrigation efficiency coefficients. The indicators
would include technical, financial and risk analysis.
The FSR program would be conducted in two main ifarming systems in Inner Mongolia: one, the
predominant crop production with some livestock system; and two, animal production areas
where livestock grazing with limited cropping is the predominant system. An international study
tour would be included in the FSR program.
Within Gansu, it is proposed that each Project County would establish two demonstration villages
where improved technologies and practices for integrated crop and livestock production including
economic terracing and irrigation techniques, wou]d be demonstrated. Most of the applied
research work would be done within these demonstration villages. Villages would include a range
of farming systems and main agro-ecological zones.
In Qinghai, the project would support applied research and demonstration on crop shelters,
economic plants, sustainable tillage, soil nutrient monitoring, artificial grassland and water
saving.
Animal Husbandry and Pasture Improvement Demonstration and Extension (D&E)
New techniques or products that increase production and/or reduce production risk will be readily
accepted by poor households if the beneficial attributes can be demonstrated to apply to their
production situation. For that reason, the adaptive research program outlined below focuses on
activities that demonstrate and extend new productiion techniques or agriculture products rather
than engaging in a traditional research approach.
The proposed D&E program in Inner Mongolia includes four animal husbandry and pasture
improvement proposals and several farm product and farming technique proposals, which include
multiple components:
* Pasture improvement techniques including introduction of new forage species and
demonstrating techniques to rehabilitate degraded pasture;



59
*  Animal management to reduce grazing impacts on natural pasture by selecting the
appropriate time to begin grazing after growth of forage species is initiated;
*  Improved animal husbandry techniques including selection of feeds and feeding
methods; and
*  Using improved animal and pasture management techniques to reduce grazing
impacts including time and duration of grazing and deferred grazing systems to
improve forage plant vigor.
Four counties/Banners have been selected for demonstrating animal husbandry, pasture, and farm
improvement proposals. Selection was based on locations representative of the different
conditions in the 15 project counties/Banners. The selected counties are Siziwang and Chayouhou
Banners in the western portion of the sub-project area and Taibusi and Wengniute Banners in the
eastern portion of the sub-project area. Activities related to demonstration and extension in all
counties/Banners will be the responsibility of Inner Mongolia Agricultural University and the
Demonstration and Extension Group of Wengniute Banner acting as a single group. Outside
funds from the China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development
(CCICED), if obtained, may be used to demonstrate resource management planning at the level of
a village in Wengniute Banner. These funds would be linked to the WPRP D&E program but
would also facilitate meeting CCICED objectives of establishing sustainable agriculture
demonstration areas.
In Gansu, the D&E program is primarily oriented towards demonstration of farming systems.
Included in this program are four animal husbandry related sub-projects. Livestock-related
proposals include:
- Demonstration of nutrient blocks to improve animal nutrition; and
- Health programs for penned sheep.
The demonstration of nutrient blocks to improve animal nutrition was selected as an appropriate
D&E project. The demonstration of hormone injection to improve twinning in sheep was
excluded from consideration as a D&E project because of its theoretical nature and unproven
technology aspects.
In Qinghai, most components will need to be applied in the project as a matter of course since it
involves oasis development. Three D&E projects suggested as being suitable in the Xiangride
Balong development and settlement area were:
*  Demonstration of different types and sizes of feed storage facilities to improve winter
and spring storage of animal feed prepared by the household;
*  Introduction of new and improved forage and fodder species that have high yields
under conditions found in the project development area, especially high sodic soil
conditions; and
*  Demonstration of the use of broad spectrum parasite control medicines such as
Ivomectin to assist in meeting animal health requirements for mostly confined
animals such as sheep and goats.
Marketing studies would also be conducted to analyze likely supply and demand for the main
agricultural commodities produced within the project areas. The aim would be to provide an
analytical basis for assisting with formulating appropriate agricultural development policy and
strategies.



60
Technical Services
Technical support services would include those provided from the County and Townships. In
addition, depending on the size, each village would include one or more 'village technicians' who
have received special training in one or more disciplines such as animal husbandry, crop
production, water management, and farm machinery. These households would provide low level
technical support and act as demonstration farmers. In some cases they would also act as agents
for the township based fertilizer and seed companies. The County technical services would be
provided from a series of 'Stations' according to discipline: grassland, crop production, crop
protection, water conservancy (irrigation and soil and water conservation), animal husbandry and
animal health, agricultural machinery and farm economy. Staff at the County level has usually
completed a diploma and in some cases, are university graduates. Apart from planning and
monitoring, the role of the County staff would be to provide technical support to the township
based staff. They would also conduct technical training for technicians and assist with farmer
training. The structure of County technical services is largely replicated at the township. Most
township staff has a tertiary certificate or less. Agricultural graduates are rare. Depending on the
season, township staff spends a high proportion of their time in the field visiting farm households
and providing technical advice. During the winter imonths, some farmer training seminars are
conducted.
In Qinghai, one comprehensive technical support station including all of the farm technical
services would be established in each township, hea,ded by a Director. The long-term aim is for
the technical services to be provided through a farmer owned company. A series of farmer owned
and managed demonstration farms would be established in Qinghai in the early stages of
development.
Technicians and Farmers Training
Training would be provided at three levels: senior technician, township technician, village
technician, and farmer. In Inner Mongolia three senior technicians, one each from the three main
disciplines-crop production, animal husbandry, and forest and grassland production-from each
participating County/Banner would receive short term intensive refresher training (about 1
month) at the Inner Mongolia Agriculture and Animal Husbandry College. This would be
followed by 2 weeks in project year 2 and 1 week in project year 3. At the follow-up training,
each group (15) of technicians would present a brief summary of their experiences during the past
year and discuss technical issues that have arisen during the year. They would also comment on
the effectiveness and relevance of the training.
The training would focus on three main areas: one, an introduction to production economics and
farm system analysis including risk analysis; two, crop, animal and forestry and pasture
production and management as the case may be; and three, effective communication and training-.
This training would be conducted in the first project year.
The three senior technicians (45 total) would lead the training of other senior County/Banner
technicians and those at the township level. The iin-service technical training of other senior
technicians and township technicians would be comlbined. The technical training seminars would
be up to 5 days in length. Depending on the source of trainers and the available facilities, training
would take place either at the League center, the County, or in the townships. Training at these
levels in both provinces would be of a practical content and be relevant to the project investment
program and the skill needs of the respective staff. All technical training including that for
farmers would be conducted during the winter season. An introduction to elementary production
economics and farm system analysis would be a special feature of the technical training program.
The concept of the farm as a total integrated socio-economic system would be stressed.



61
A similar training program would be implemented in Gansu. Farmers would receive a minimum
of two days technical training annually. One member of each household participating in the
project would be required to attend training on the particular technology to be used, among other
things. Township technicians would be trained for three days in each of the first four years, while
County technicians would be trained for five days annually. Training would be conducted at
training facilities at the province, County and township levels by staff and specialists from the
Gansu Agricultural University and Provincial Bureaus, research specialists, and Prefecture and
County technicians. Farmer training would be conducted in both the villages and the townships.
In each village the project implementation group would ensure that at least one person from each
household received technical training. Annual technical training would take place each winter or
spring and be for 1-2 days in each case. In addition, selected farmers would receive additional
training and act as village technicians. Thus each village would have at least one farmer
specialized in one particular discipline. These village technicians would provide voluntary
technical services to village households. Apart from formal training workshops, farmers and
village technicians would receive continual on-the-job training from township technicians.
During the cropping season, township technicians would spend a minimum of about four months
continuously in the field.
In each County/Banner and township, 1 or 2 persons would be assigned to act as the training
coordinators. They would receive some elementary training in effective communication. The
training coordinators would be responsible for coordinating and organizing the training programs
including preparing the training contents and ensuring the trainers, materials and equipment
required are available. The project would also provide a limited package of visual aids (flip
charts, overhead projectors, video screens, materials, etc.) to assist training implementation. In
Gansu one visual aid package would be provided for each County PMO. The visual aids would be
only those needed beyond what is already available. Training coordinators would be trained in the
use of visual aids.
Study Tour
As an integral part of the Inner Mongolia Farming Systems Research program, about three senior
technicians involved in the program would make an intemational study tour. They would study
farming systems research and the technologies proposed for testing within that program.
Minimum tillage systems, for example, would be one of those technologies. A more extensive
study tour program is planned for Gansu. About 104 technicians, management staff and farmner
representatives would complete domestic study tours within China. Some 19 senior technicians
and management staff would make an international study tour. The purpose of the study tours and
the results to be achieved would be carefully defined. Following completion of the study, the
participants would complete a written report on their findings and recommendations, especially
those considered relevant to the project target areas. They would also deliver a series of seminars-
on their findings and recommendations. The project would finance all training costs including
those for technicians and farmers (travel, subsistence, accommodation, study fees, etc.) and the
cost of study tours both domestic and international.
C. Component 2 - Irrigation and Land Improvement (US$86.3 million)
Irrigation Development in Qinghai
Storage Development. The irrigation system developed under the project would comprise five
irrigation sub-districts with an aggregate area of 19,200 hectares. Irrigation supplies would
depend largely on diversion from the Xiangride River, with its upper catchment flow being



62
regulated by two natural lakes, of which Tuosuo Lake is the more significant. The project would
finance the construction of the Keri Dam to provide an effective 23 million cubic meters of off-
river storage for additional flow regulation and irrigation release at the beginning of the planting
season in March. This would be a 40 meter high concrete-face sand-and-rock-filled dam with a
crest length of 391 meters. There would be two saddle dams, also sand-and-rock-filled, the left
with a height of 21 meters and a crest length of 135 meters and the right a height of 26 meters and
a crest length of 480 meters. A 10 meter high masonry gravity dam with a 5 meter wide spillway
would be provided for flood discharge. A low weir w ould be constructed on the Xiangride River
to divert its flow into the Keri Dam via a 28 kilometer intake canal. A 59 kilometer long main
canal emanating at the dam would bring irrigation supplies from the dam to Balong Irrigation
Sub-district (14,700 hectares), and part of the Qingshuihe Irrigation Sub-district (1,660 hectares).
The project would also finance the reconstruction of ;he existing control gate at Tuosuo Lake and
the improvement of Hatu Dam. Hatu improvement would involve the raising of an existing small
dam to 10 meters and seepage treatment of the reservoir floor to serve the Hatu Irrigation Sub-
district (760 hectares). The other two gravity systems would serve 740 hectares in Yikegaoli
Irrigation Sub-district and 1,3 10 hectares in Xiaoxiatan Irrigation Sub-district. The Tuosuo head
works would replace the gate to improve operational efficiency.
Dam Safety Review. A panel of experts reviewed the safety aspects of the design of the Keri
Dam, the existing Hatu Dam and the control gate of Tuosuo Lake in August, 1998. Based on the
recommendations of the review panel, the design of the Keri right saddle dam has been revised
and the second Panel made its second visit to Qinghai in December 1998, and has approved the
design.
Irrigation and Drainage Facilities. The project would finance three separate conveyance
systems comprising intake, main and branch canals, laterals, sub-laterals and farm ditches and
associated canal structures for the five irrigation sub-districts. For water control and management
at the farm level, water measuring structures (Parshall-Flumes) would be installed at lateral and
sub-lateral levels. The conveyance system for the Qingshuihe Irrigation Sub-district would also
include a diversion headworks. All canals, with the exception of farm ditches, would have
concrete lining to prevent seepage. In the Balong Irrigation Sub-district, which comprises 76
percent of the irrigation area, typically a sub-lateral would serve an area of 15 hectares and a
lateral would serve 120 hectares (8 sub-laterals). On average, a branch canal would feed 7-8
laterals. Farm ditches (compacted earth ditches) woul]d be constructed within sub-lateral irrigation
blocks, and each farm ditch would irrigate about 1.25 to 1.5 hectares. Irrigation would be by the
border-strip method. In view of high intake rates of the soils in the project area, the length of
border-strips would be relatively short, between 50 and 100 meters, and farm ditches would be set
at these distances apart, perpendicular to the sublaterals. Border-strips would generally be 3 to 4.5
meters in width. Project financing would cover land leveling, both to remove the numerous sand
mounds and to smooth and grade the border-strips to the required slopes.
A complementary drainage system consisting of main, branch, lateral, and sub-lateral drains
would be provided to remove excess surface water. Except for the main drain, these drains would
be constructed alongside the canals. The main drain running on the northern boundary of the
Balong and Qingshuihe Irrigation Sub-districts would discharge into the wastelands and
subsequently an inland lake to the northwest.
Water Table Control and Groundwater Development. Groundwater abounds at Balong and
Qingshuihe Irrigation Sub-districts, with the underlying aquifers being recharged by several
streams including the Hatu and Qingshuihe Rivers on the south and discharging into marshy land
on the north. There will also be recharge from canal seepage and deep percolation of irrigation
water. Drainage wells would be constructed to check progressive rise of water table and



63
secondary salinization resulting therefrom. Drainage discharge would be used conjunctively with
surface water for irrigation. The wells, generally located along side branch canals would vary
from 80 to 130 meters in depth and would be evenly distributed in the irrigation area. About 70
wells equipped with electrically operated pumps averaging 150 cubic meters/hour in discharge
capacity would be installed. In addition to the drainage wells, sub-surface drainage would be
installed in areas with shallow water table (less than 2.5 meters).
Water balance and reservoir operation studies incorporating groundwater model simulation
showed that the construction of Keri Dam together with the installation of 67 tube wells is the
optimum among several options considered including one with 287 wells but without the Keri
Dam. The optimum scheme, besides being economical, has the merit of avoiding excessive draw
down of the groundwater table and the consequential adverse impact on the adjacent grazing
areas. Under this option, the annual evacuation of drainage water would be of the order of 23
million cubic meters. To ensure sustainable development, pumping would be carefully controlled
to maintain the present groundwater table. A program of water level and water quality monitoring
would be put in place from the start of project implementation.
Reclamation of Salinized Soils. Moderate salinization occurs in the Balong and Qingshuihe
Irrigation Sub-districts. There are about 3,500 hectares of soils with salinity ranging from 1.5
percent to over 7 percent. About 90 percent of these are with salinity less than 5 percent. The soils
would be improved and reclaimed through leaching in combination with agricultural measures.
Experiments conducted elsewhere in the Qaidamu Basin showed that soils with similar salinity
levels had been successfully reclaimed through applying leaching water at the rate of 7,500-9,000
cubic meters per hectare. Leaching is most effective when applied at high temperature during
summer. This leaching rate would be adopted for the project area.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality. The project irrigation area would comprise 70 percent
crop land, 15 percent forestry, and 15 percent pasture. Based on a weighted average net irrigation
requirement of 5,468 cubic meters/hectare, and an overall canal system efficiency of 61 percent,
the total gross irrigation demand would be 175 million cubic meters. Of this amount, about 79
percent would be met through the regulated flow of Xiangride River, 8 percent through the
impoundment and diversion of Hatu and Qingshuihe River, and 13 percent from groundwater
(drainage water). Apart from meeting the project irrigation requirements, the regulated flow of
Xiangride River would also compensate the supply of 115 million cubic meters to existing
irrigation areas downstream. Operational studies carried out using the continuous flow record of
Xiangride River (1962-69), the driest period in 40 years- 1956-96, showed that the regulated flow
of Xiangride River satisfied the demands in all years. Flows of Hatu and Qingshuihe River are
also sufficient to meet demands in 3 out of 4 years. The overall supply situation is therefore
satisfactory. Water samples tested showed that the quality of both surface and groundwater fully
meets the national irrigation water quality standards in China.
Small Scale Irrigation Works in Inner Mongolia and Gansu. The proposed project would also
finance the construction of small-scale irrigation works to serve 34,050 hectares of existing and
new crop land in Inner Mongolia and Gansu. Irrigation works would include 6,460 tube wells and
5,060 shallow wells for 22,050 hectares in Inner Mongolia. In addition, a further 3,760 hectares
served by existing groundwater schemes would be equipped with on farrn water distribution
facilities comprising irrigation pipe lines and concrete lined canals to improve irrigation water use
efficiency. In areas with a lack of groundwater resource, rain water would be harvested and 3,300
individually operated micro-irrigation facilities for 3,535 hectares would be constructed in Gansu
and Inner Mongolia to tide over critical periods of water shortage and to lessen the impact of
drought. Other small irrigation works would include canal lining, small pumping stations and
moveable pumps and small flood protection schemes for 8,470 hectares.



64
The development of groundwater for irrigation in Inner Mongolia would be the single most
effective strategy for increasing food production and improving farm income, while
complementing ongoing soil and water conservation programs and mitigating pressure on
overgrazed grassland in the project area. To ensure that there will be a sound technical basis for
groundwater development in the project area, water balance and technical criteria have been
carefully reviewed. The groundwater balance study lhas shown that approximately 25 percent of
an exploitable volume of some 225 million cubic mneters is presently abstracted in the project
area. There is thus sufficient potential for the abstraction of an additional 83 million cubic meters
per year by project wells. Groundwater salinity is less than 1000 milligrams/liter and suitable for
irrigation purposes.
Site selection for groundwater development would be made using a uniform technical procedure
and relevant hydrogeological, geological, soil and topographic maps and reports, which are
available in all project County/Banner Water Conservancy Bureaus. The technical criteria for the
design and construction of irrigation wells would conform to relevant technical standards.
Irrigation wells would be of three types: tube wells JTW), shallow wells (SW), and shallow tube
wells (STW). The technology for construction for all types is well adapted to the area. TW would
be installed under a drilling contract while SW and STW would be constructed by the farmers.
Wells would be equipped with centrifugal or submersible pumps, depending on depth to water
level, driven by electric motors or, where electricity is not available, diesel engine. To guard
against over-exploitation, a groundwater monitoring program would be put in place. Monitoring
of water levels, abstraction and water quality would be carried out by County/Banner Water
Conservation Bureaus (WCBs). Water levels and power consumption would be measured in all
project wells at monthly intervals and water quality at annual intervals.
Land Improvement
Terracing. Aside from irrigation, terracing of sloping land would be a key strategy to bring about
a substantial increase in the agricultural production and income of project households. New
terraced land would allow project farmers to increase production of grain and cash crops and
animal feed, thereby mitigating pressure on steeply sloping land. Terracing would also contribute
to soil and water conservation in the degraded environment of the project area. The project would
therefore finance about 18,000 hectares of terracing in Gansu and 8,500 hectares in Inner
Mongolia. About 90 percent would be with earth riser and the remainder with rock riser.
Terracing in Inner Mongolia would be mechanically constructed on new and cultivated sloping
land below 15 degrees. In Gansu, terracing with both earth and rock riser would be constructed
with manual labor on cultivated sloping land below 25 degrees. Benches of terraced land would
vary from 8 to 15 meters in width depending on slope inclination, with wider benches being
provided on flatter slopes. Terracing would take place on contiguous areas of 15 to 20 hectares,
and civil works would include drainage and other soil and water conservation measures for
environmental protection.
Soil and Water Conservation. About 5,900 hectares of trees and shrubs would be planted in
Inner Mongolia to protect against wind erosion, to rehabilitate degraded land, and to improve the
eco-environment for crop production and human habitation and for fuel wood. Planting would
take place on ridges to protect farms and grassland against wind erosion; on waste land and
degraded sloping land; in gullies; and alongside roads and waterways. Trees would be planted in
belts with a density of 4,000 to 6,000 trees/hectare and spacing of 1 x 2 meters or 2 x 2 meters. In
Gansu some 194 square kilometers of watershed subject to severe soil erosion would be
rehabilitated through soil and water conservation measures comprising terracing, check dams, and
tree shrub planting. About 250 hectares of gully land in Damao County in Inner Mongolia would
be reclaimed for cultivation through construction of small check dams.



65
D. Component 3 - Rural Infrastructure (US$28.7 million)
The project would support labor-intensive construction of rural roads, water supply systems, and
rural electrification works.
Rural Roads
In Gansu and Inner Mongolia, the project would construct 216 kilometers of all-weather gravel
roads and four bridges to link 289 administrative villages to the existing network of County and
township roads. Roads would be included for implementation using similar screening..and
selection procedures and criteria adopted for the Bank-assisted Second Henan Provincial
Highway Project and Tri-Provincial Highway Project assisted by the Bank. Based on the
anticipated daily traffic volume, 171 kilometers of roads would be constructed to Class IV road
standards in Gansu and 45 kilometers would be constructed to Class III road standards in Inner
Mongolia.
The project would finance 116 kilometers of all-weather Class IV gravel roads in 4-kilometer x 4-
kilometer grids to serve 21 new administrative villages and newly developed irrigation area in
Qinghai. These roads would be constructed alongside branch canals. Financing would also be
provided for 426 kilometers of farm roads, constructed alongside irrigation laterals and linked to
the gravel roads. Farm roads would have a formation of 4.5 meters with a 3 meter carriage way
designed for the same vehicular loading as Class IV roads.
Rural Water Supply
Low-cost water supply facilities would be provided to about 308,200 people in 760 administrative
villages in Gansu and Inner Mongolia. The facilities would tap from springs, utilize groundwater,
and divert or pump from streams, and would include piped systems both with and without
household connections. In localities where neither surface nor groundwater is available, rain
collectors serving individual households would be provided. Facilities would be designed to
supply 15 to 35 liters of water per capita per day, and would meet current water quality standards
for rural water supply in China. Drinking water for animals would also be provided in areas
where water source is sufficient and marginal cost of construction is reasonable. Daily
consumption of 5 liters per sheep and 30 liters per head of cattle would be allowed. For piped
systems, a design period of 15 years would be adopted and 1.2 percent taken as the annual
population growth. A factor of 1.5 would be used for maximum day demand and the peak hour
demand factor applied would vary from 2.5 to 4.
Rural water supply facilities would also be provided to 61,800 migrants in the voluntary
settlement area in Qinghai. The facilities would utilize the good quality groundwater that occurs-
in abundance in the area and would include public hydrants for centralized supply to villagers.
Rural Electrification
The project would enable about 410 administrative villages in Gansu and Inner Mongolia to gain
access to electricity. To satisfy power requirements for households, agro-processing, other light
industries and mining, 1,832 kilometers of 10 kV and 73 kilometers of 0.4 kV distribution lines
would be installed. To meet similar requirements in the voluntary settlement areas in Qinghai,
power would be drawn from the proposed 110 kV power line at Xiangride Town. Two
transformer stations, one each at the two new project Townships of Dongba and Tawen, 126
kilometers of 35 kV and 211 kilometers of 10 kV power transmission lines, 1,238 kilometers of
220 V and 380 V distribution lines would be installed.



66
E. Component 4 - Rural Enterprises (US$13.6 million)
The rural enterprise component comprises three investment packages covering the three PPs. The
objectives, types of sub-projects, lending terms, and implementation arrangements are described
separately for each PP.
Gansu
Objective and Proposed Sub-projects. The objective of the rural enterprise component in
Gansu is to promote commercially viable investments with a view to opening markets for raw
materials and generating employment opportunities for project area households. Two categories
of investments have been identified:
*  Investments in large scale (Yuan 250,000 upwards) rural enterprises providing
benefits to the poor project households either by giving farmers access to markets for
their produce or by providing employment opportunities at a relatively low cost per
job created; and
*  Loans to individual and small groups of households to set up small-scale village
enterprises.
(i) Large Scale Enterprises. Loans for large-scale rural enterprises will contain terms relating to
the poverty alleviation objectives of the project. These include: i) priority to project households
for employment and selling their farm products to the company; and ii) provision of technical
assistance to project farmers supplying raw materials, to upgrade their farming practices. Both
these requirements must be met for a sub-project to be included under the project. For example
the apple storage sub-projects will benefit poor apple farmers by providing them with access to
storage. The carpet factories provide local employment for unskilled labor who will be trained on
the job. Basket weaving, and collection of wild vegetables and medicinal herbs provide both
employment opportunities and additional rural income opportunities. These sub-projects would
be operated as share holding companies with a minimum of 30 percent of total investment
(equity) being provided in the form of cash or assets by investors.
(ii) Small Household Enterprises. These enterprises would operate at the village level
processing animal feed, oil seeds etc. for village households in return for a fee. The enterprises
would be owned and operated by individual or small groups of project households to service
other village households, both project and non-project. Cave storage loans for apple farmers will
also be provided under this category, as the facilities would provide storage for the farmer's own
fruit and also for fruit from other project farmers in the immediate neighborhood. While only a
limited number of enterprises have been developed at this stage it is envisaged that the scope of-
loans under this category of enterprises will be widened in later years to cover similar household
enterprise activities with the same order of investment cost per family. Eligible individual
households will be approved by the County PMOs. ABC, using their current criteria for
household loans, would appraise and approve loans on terms for similar loans.
(iii) Appraisal Criteria, Lending Terms. Appraisal criteria differ for the two categories of
enterprises. Loans will be based on standard ABC terms with interest rates equivalent to current
ABC rates for similar investments. The current rates range from 9 percent for up to three year
loans, to 9.72 percent for up to five years, and 10.35 percent for more than five years. A
minimum investor equity of 30 percent of the investment would be required with the balance
provided as project loans. The PMO would furnish all loan applications to ABC for review and



67
appraisal and the PMO would make loans to eligible investors on current ABC terms for similar
investments. Rural enterprise sub-projects in Gansu would be subject to prior Bank approval.
(iv) Large Scale Processing Investments. Gansu has identified a number of processing
investments to be appraised and approved by ABC. The appraisal will be conducted in two
stages. An initial appraisal would be based on the project documents as prepared by the County
Project Offices, Design Institutes etc. Once a sub-project has passed this appraisal by all parties it
indicates that the project is considered commercially sound and in line with project objectives.
When an investor is identified, the feasibility study of the sub-project would be revised, generally
by the preparation of an addendum adding details of the company structure, names of
shareholders and their equity contribution, updated market information and prices, any changes in
details of the project proposed by the investor, updated equipment lists and other additional
details as required by the appraising bodies during the first stage appraisal. On the basis of this, a
second appraisal should be conducted to review the commercial viability and development
(poverty reduction) impact.
(v) Commercial Study. The commercial feasibility study should look purely at the commercial
aspects of the enterprise. Market and pricing sections should be developed to include full details
of current market conditions with past time series if available. Equipment lists and cost estimates
should be supported by sketch drawings, and calculations showing building areas required, copies
of catalogues and quotations for major equipment items. At least 65 percent of items by value
should be supported by written quotation. Management and organization structure descriptions
need not be developed in detail since these would change once an investor is identified. Loan
terms and conditions proposed are to be described and included in the cost tables based on a
minimum 30 percent equity from the investors. A brief description of environmental issues
should be included highlighting possible environmental impacts. All projects require
Environmental Bureau approval as a condition of loan approval.
Where the sub-project involves remodeling or expansion based on an existing enterprise the full
results of the current operation must be included as an annex to the study including operational
and financial performance. Generally the new company should incorporate the existing operation,
although sometimes this may not be possible due to different ownership systems, and it should be
included in the new enterprise model if it is to continue in operation. The existing assets if they
continue to be used can form part of the equity.
(vi) Poverty Impact Study. This would assess the poverty alleviation impact of the sub-project
against the criteria outlined above. The impact study would highlight the direct and indirect
impact of the project including: i) employment of project households; ii) expected sales of raw
material produced by project households; and iii) summary of technical assistance to be provided
to project farmers.
Implementation Arrangements. Rural enterprises would be independent legal entities. Potential
promoters .of enterprises would be invited to participate through an open selection procedure. The
selection committee would comprise the heads of the County Poverty Alleviation Office, County
PMO, ABC, and Township Enterprise Administration Bureau. A vice magistrate of the County
would chair the selection committee. The provincial PMO would review and approve the
selection. Participants would: i) provide required amount of equity; ii) provide construction
designs and procurement plans; iii) set target for poverty reduction and develop and implement
technical standards for construction, operation and environmental protection; and iv) prepare and
furnish progress report to County PMO. Criteria for selecting, evaluating and approving sub-
projects under this component are given in Annex 3 of the PIP. PMOs would actively promote the
proposed sub-projects and identify prospective investors. They would also familiarize investors
with the completed feasibility studies that have been done and assist with updating these studies.



68
Once loans are approved, primary responsibility for implementation will rest with the investor
rather than the project office and County bureau. PMOs, in collaboration with ABC, would be
responsible for monitoring implementation, ensuring that procurement guidelines are followed,
the project follows the agreed plans and that disbursement of funds matches physical progress. A
manual covering these responsibilities should be prepared by the PMO. Implementation
arrangements for small household loans will follow similar procedure as above.
Inner Mongolia
Objectives and Proposed Sub-projects. This component is intended to make available to project
farmers a range of small machinery to increase farm labor productivity and provide transport for
goods and people. The proposed investments would include: i) stationary machines for feed
chopping, milling and threshing; and ii) small tractors for transport, general farm work and to
power farm machinery. It is intended that a range of equipment will be financed and that farmers
can tailor a package to suit their own particular needs, subject to the approval of the Provincial
Agriculture and Livestock Engineering Design Institute on technical issues and the Project office
in terms of financial viability. Farm machinery loans under this sub-project will be made
available to the whole project area subject to meeting the defined criteria. Specifications for
machinery will be prepared by the Design Institute and Project Office for competitive bidding.
These small chopping, milling, and threshing machines are used to either reduce the labor
requirements at peak seasons or to carry out tasks that are difficult or impractical to perform by
hand. The choppers and huggers will be used to process straw and crop residues for silage and
micro-ensilage in order to upgrade these materials for animal feed. While the financial models
have been prepared for fixed electric powered units, portable tractor powered units will also be
available where these are better suited to local requirements.
Small tractors have also found widespread acceptance in rural China for transport (people and
goods) and for agriculture where they are used for both farming and as a source of power for
stationary farm machinery and pumps. These robust, versatile machines equipped with trailers
provide the primary transport for both farm inputs and outputs as well as people. With the
significant increase in both farn inputs and outputs as a result of the project, demand for transport
will increase accordingly. Without adequate transport many of the project advantages are in
danger of being lost. By localizing transport in the villages (Gacha) rather than townships more of
the benefits arising from increased productivity will be captured at the village level.
A typical package comprising a tractor, trailer, plough, harvester and seed sower has been
modeled by the Provincial Agriculture and Livestock Engineering Design Institute. It is not
intended, however, that farmers be restricted to this one machinery package. Implements suitable
for more specialized tasks can replace the standard ones and there is no obligation on the farmer
to take the whole package. The returns to the fanner for this package demonstrate that the
proposed loan repayment schedule can be met particularly when returns to labor are included.
Lending Criteria and Terms. Application for such loans would be subject to: i) current
availability of machines at the Gacha level (either under the project or privately); ii) the proposed
owners being able to bring the necessary entrepreneurial skills to the project; iii) guarantee that
priority service will be available to the project Barners; and iv) tractor drivers to come from
within the owners' families rather than being hired labor. Lending terms for tractors and
machinery will be offered by ABC for similar investnents; that is currently 3-5 year loans with a
maximum of one year grace period when interest only will be payable. ABC's interest rate
reviewed annually, is currently 7-8 percent. Repayments will be made six monthly at dates set out
in the sub-loan agreement. Sub-loan agreements will include rights to repossess and resell



69
machines in the event of loan conditions not being met. Where ownership is to be by a group of
families the group families will be jointly and severally liable for the debt.
Implementation Arrangements. The PMO would actively market the proposed sub-projects and
identify prospective investors. It would also familiarize investors with the completed feasibility
studies that have been done and assist with updating studies. Once loans are approved primary
responsibility for implementation will rest with the investor rather than the project office and
County bureau. The project office will be responsible to monitor implementation ensuring that
procurement guidelines are followed, the project follows the agreed plans and that disbursement
of funds matches physical progress. A manual covering these responsibilities has been prepared
by the PMO. Implementation arrangements for township markets and small household loans will
follow procedures similar to the above.
Qinghai
Objectives and Proposed Sub-projects. This component would finance a range of village scale
processing machinery and company owned feed concentrate mills as identified by the Provincial
Rural Enterprise Bureau (PREB). Four specific small enterprises have been modeled-flour
milling, fodder chopping, oil extraction and noodle making. It is intended that there will be some
flexibility in the makeup of the package and households will be able to tailor a package to suit
their own particular needs, subject to the approval of the PMO. The concentrate feed mill is
intended to have a conventional commercial structure and will require equity investors and
management identified prior to approval.
In addition to the enterprises described above, sub-projects also include small loans, mainly
targeted to women, of less than Yuan 1000 to households under a standard ABC lending program.
This program allows for a variety of small investments in farming enterprises, which are common
in many farming villages in Qinghai. Villagers take their wheat, oil seeds, or fodder to be
processed for a fee. The models have been prepared by the PREB. The operations have been
scaled to suit a single household or two households combining to run the enterprise. Capital costs
have been kept to a minimum to allow entrepreneurs with only limited resources entry into a
business.
Lending Terms. ABC would lend to household enterprises as poverty alleviation loans from
ABC funds set aside for this purpose:
* Loans of up to Yuan 10,000 per household would be provided for setting up
approved investments under the project. More than one household can take out a loan
to jointly invest in an enterprise subject to the equity rules for the total investment
being met;
*  20 percent equity will be required and 10 percent of the loan must remain in the-
individuals' account for the first year (making effective equity requirement 30
percent) but no other guarantees or collateral will be required; and
* Loan term will normally be 3-7 years. Interest only will be paid during the term of
the loan with the loan being repaid in full at the end of the loan period. Interest rates
will be as set by the State for poverty alleviation loans. (Currently these range from
2.88 percent to 4.5 percent depending on term).
Implementation Arrangements. The entire rural enterprise component would be financed by
ABC using its own source of funds. ABC would manage loan disbursement and would be
responsible for selecting, approving, implementing, monitoring and evaluation. PMOs will
provide information materials prepared by the Rural Enterprise Bureau (REB) and mobilize the
households to participate. Households wishing to take part will be directed to the ABC for loan



70
processing. ABC has signed an agreement with PM\O to provide funds as required for the
household enterprise program in a timely manner subject to the loan conditions being met. They
will also monitor and evaluate implementation progress. REB will provide technical assistance
and deliver training. In the case of the concentrate feed mill, the loan from ABC will be on a
normal commercial basis at rates current at the time of borrowing and will be negotiated directly
between the ABC and the investors) and cleared by the Provincial Environmental Protection
Bureau.
F. Component 5 - Labor Mobillity (US$15.7 million)
Objective
The labor mobility component is aimed at providing employment opportunities to 65,700 rural
workers in Gansu with a view to supplementing their farm incomes. In the project area (Gansu)
about 265,000 rural laborers, or 33 percent of the total rural population, are under-employed.
Discounting for age and potential project-generated employment opportunities, an estimated
122,000 surplus workers would be available for export to the outside labor market. While Gansu
has a long tradition of exporting rural workers to other parts of China, a special labor mobility
program would be implemented under the proposed project. The program would be designed to
target poor households with surplus labor-households in remote areas that often have no access
to labor market information and employment opportunities. In addition, the project would
strengthen the labor market information system of Gansu's Provincial Labor Bureau (PLB) to
provide timely information to job seekers and employers.
Similar programs have been supported by the Bank in Southwest Poverty Reduction Project
(SWPRP) and by the government in Gansu. Lessons show that such programs may fail if labor
market information is poorly provided, initial support to laborers is insufficient, monitoring of
laborer conditions does not function, and institutional coordination is weak.
Component Activities
The component activities would include the identification and selection of surplus workers;
provision of basic orientation on the urban environment, labor law and relevant worker's safety
measures; on-the-job training and initial settlernent expenses; and establishment of a
computerized labor market information system linkced to 13 labor stations in China and the
Ministry of Labor and Social Security employment information data base. The system would
register job openings and profiles of job seekers, contract with employers to place selected
workers in enterprises, monitor the safety and well being of workers, and recovery loans.
Implementation Arrangements
Placement of Workers. 65,700 persons would be placed in off-farm employment over a period
of six years. Of these 19,600 persons (30 percent) would be for intra-provincial placement and
46,100 persons (70 percent) would be for inter-provincial placement. On average, intra provincial
and inter-provincial job-seekers would receive loans of Yuan 1,240 and Yuan 1,740 respectively
to cover pre-departure, training, transport and initial settlement expenses. These loans would be
repaid within two years at 8 percent annual interest. PMO would make arrangements with the
employers for monthly salary deductions. The annual phasing of labor mobility would be 12
percent, 11 percent, 16 percent, 21 percent, 26 percent and 23 percent.



71
Applicants for the program should meet the following criteria:
*  Surplus household labor as certified by the VPIG using the standard norms of farm
holding and available family labor (1 labor for 0.5 hectares);
*  Per capita income and food grain production below the poverty level;
*  Basic literacy, numeracy and any technical skills;
* Good health as certified in recent medical exam; and
* Willingness to work in an urban environment.
Pre-departure basic orientation would be arranged by the PMO in collaboration with the
Provincial Labor Bureau (PLB). This training would cover introduction to labor law with
emphasis on labor rights and obligations and safety standards; living in urban settings and the
contractual obligations entered by the workers to repay loans and social obligations to remit
incomes to their households. To enhance skill training for the migrant workers, employing
enterprises would provide on the job training at cost.
Labor Market Information System. The project would develop a labor market information
system (LMIS) for registration ofjob seekers and job openings. The LMIS would be set up in the
PLB with links to the Project Management Office and 13 labor stations in major cities in China.
The system would be operated by the PLB and would provide information on job openings to
Project County labor bureaus for dissemination to project villages.
Monitoring and Evaluation. To ensure the effectiveness of the program and the well-being and
safety of the migrant workers, the project would set-up a monitoring and evaluation system. The
system for Monitoring and Evaluation would be designed by a qualified institute (the Population
Research Institute of Northwest China, Lanzhou University) under the overall guidance of Gansu
PMO. Surveys of representative sample workers and villages of workers' origin would also be
conducted to assess the amount and use of remittances and the survey results would be reported
annually to Gansu PMO. The All China Women's Federation would also cany out annual
reviews to ensure that female migrant workers are safe and their contracts are strictly enforced.
Institutional Arrangements. Under the coordination of the PMO's Labor Mobility Coordination
Section, the Labor Bureaus at provincial and County levels would take the responsibility in the
implementation of the labor mobility component. The Labor Bureaus experience in managing
labor export programs but lack the resources for improving their services. The PMO has signed
an MOU (Service Agreement) with the PLB covering the annual targets, selection, pre-departure
training, and placement procedure. The PLB would utilize the services of Labor Stations located
in 13 major cities in China to provide up to date information on employment vacancies.
Retroactive Financing. Selected activities would be suitable for retroactive financing, such as
setting up the basic training sites; finalizing the operational manual for VPIGs, County PMOs,
County Labor Mobility Offices, and provincial PMO and PLB to guide the selection of laborers,
training, transport, placement, and monitoring; and preparing the Monitoring and Evaluation
System based on Terms of Reference (TOR) to be agreed with the Bank.
G. Component 6 - Voluntary Settlement (US$6.5 million)
There are 0.7 million poor in Qinghai living in 14 national poverty counties including 6 project
counties in the resource-deficient eastern arid region. In many project townships the inhabitants
have to regularly depend on government relief. Since 1986, 6,150 households with 29,000 people
have voluntarily moved out and settled in Qaidamu basin including Xiangride area in Dulan



72
County, the selected 'move-in' area for the project voluntary settlement. Experiences from other
Bank-supported voluntary settlement programs in China have been incorporated in the project
design. Rehabilitation of 85 percent and terracing of 15 percent of the land to be vacated would
be financed by the project counties. The component was prepared with specific reference to the
provisions of World Bank OD 4.20, Indigenous People and OD4.30, Involuntary Settlement.
Selection Criteria for 'Move-Out' Counties and Households
Criteria for Selecting 'Move-Out' Counties. Poverty incidence and degraded physical
environment are the two criteria for the selection of the emigration counties and townships. The
selected six emigration counties with 48 townships are all with high incidence of poverty, severe
soil and water erosion, extremely deficient agricultural land, lack of drinking water, and a rapidly
deteriorating ecological environment. In such villages, the prospects of development, without
further destruction of the fragile natural resources, is non-existent. The selected counties include
some villages covered by the IFAD assisted Agricultural Development Project. These villages
would not be eligible for participation in the proposed project.
Criteria for Selecting Households. The proposed settlement program is entirely on a voluntary
basis without any form of coercion or discrimination of gender, ethnic origin or religious belief,
except for the loss of grazing land currently leased by 63 households in the 'move-in' area (to be
compensated fully by irrigated pasture). The selection of households would be conducted in a
fair, transparent manner. Initially, the selection criteria include: i) per capita income of less than
Yuan 580; ii) per capita grain production of less than 210 kg; iii) households with at least two
laborers and the head of the household between 18 and 50 years in age; iv) experience in
agriculture; and v) good health and able bodied. Since the number of prospective migrants based
on these criteria is higher than the estimated carrying capacity of the 'move-in' area, a second
stage selection criteria has been introduced including: (a) per capita income less than Yuan 300;
(b) per capita grain production less than 140 kg; and (c) middle school education or basic
technical skills (for at least 10 percent of the prospective migrants). To accord preference to
minority nationalities, the educational and skill attainment standards would be relaxed. Based on
the carrying capacity of the land area and initial expression of interest by prospective migrants,
the project would assist the voluntary settlement of 57,775 people, including 33,318 minority
migrants (58 percent). In addition, 4,000 herders and farmers, currently either grazing or living in
the project area would be eligible to lands under the project according to the provisions of the
Bank's OD 4.30, Involuntary Resettlement.
Public Consultation. County PMOs would publicize the project through mass media-radio
broadcast and television, mass meeting, leaflets, and public gatherings. Applicants would receive
a copy of Migration Notice describing the migration and settlement plan, expected benefits, risks,
project support for the migrants, land allocation and lease, basic facilities and service facilities
provided in the settlement regions, preferential policies for the migrants, and estimated repayment-
obligation. The Migration Notice would also provide detailed explanation on the submission of
applications and the formalities of the selection procedure.
Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan. The voluntary settlement would be phased over a
six-year period. Prospective migrants would settle in two existing townships that would be
expanded and two new townships. There would be 21 new administrative villages with 126
natural villages in these townships. Five new irrigation sub-districts would be established. Each
migrant would be allotted 0.22 hectares of irrigated land for crop and fodder production with a
lease of 30 years. Migrants would be allowed to retain their land in the 'move out' area for two
years in the event that they may wish to return to their home villages though such cases are rarely
expected based on the experience of voluntary settlement programs in Qinghai in the past decade.
In such event, the migrants will not be requested to repay the capital investment from which they



73
would benefit directly or indirectly. During the first year, and prior to the planting of the first
food crop, migrants would be able to earn cash income by participating in the construction of the
project irrigation and rural infrastructure. Under retroactive financing, a pilot program complete
with irrigation, rural infrastructure, and health and education facilities would be established in
order to gain early experience in project implementation.
(i) Settlement Subsidies. Migrants would be exempt from land rent for the first three years. Each
migrant would receive the following grants:
Relocation fee                             Yuan 240
House construction                         Yuan 500
Fuel                                       Yuan 110
Total                                      Yuan 850
(ii) Training the New Migrants. Coming from the background of mountain agriculture, the new
migrants lack the know-how of irrigated agriculture. They would receive training in irrigation,
irrigated crop management, crop, and animal husbandry and production.
(iii) Minority Migrants. The predominant minority groups in the 'move-out' project counties are
Hui, Sala, Tu, and Tibetan nationalities. To preserve their cultural and religious tradition,
minority groups would live in a community of their choice in accordance with their original
residential population composition. The project would establish a minority nationality township
and several minority villages. Designated land will be allocated for religious use. Their
community leaders and religious elders would participate in local township work stations and the
VPIGs to assist in resolving minority nationality issues. The minority migrants would enjoy
preferential policies in employment, child education, and tuition. More information on basic
education services is provided in Section H of this Annex. Employment in Project supported
construction will give first preference to minorities when hiring, micro-credits will target
minorities and schools will charge reduced tuition or none at all for minority children. Bilingual
education and community activities making use of minority languages will both be provided as
appropriate.
It is estimated that about 3,500 Tibetans will participate in the voluntary settlement program.
Their views and interest have been recognized by the project authorities and reflected in project
design and preparation. To support this process interviews were made of a 5 percent sample
population of herders which included 10 percent Tibetans.
(iv) Women Migrants. Women's participation would be encouraged in income generating
activities and training. The project would fund small household enterprises such as handicrafts
and other activities. Moreover, individual women migrants would be eligible for Yuan 1,000
credit and women can form groups in a village for a group loan of up to Yuan 30,000 to develop a
handicraft and processing industry. An estimated 17,200 female migrants would receive training. -
(v) Pilot Program. Prior to the launch of full scale settlement, a pilot program on 300 ha for 200
households would be undertaken to test the proposed interventions at the field level with the
participation of project beneficiaries. This would create a demonstration area which could be later
used as a training site for project participants and provide an opportunity to show typical types of
irrigation layout, village infrastructure, schools, clinics, agricultural (planting of green manure)
and land management practices which would be promoted by the project. The pilot program
would also include participatory evaluation techniques to provide input from a representative
range of parties in the project area. The pilot would also ensure that the minority needs are fully
met. The pilot program would provide an opportunity to develop "lessons learned" which could
be applied to the design and implementation of the full-scale phase of activities which would start
after full evaluation of the pilot program by independent reviewers. It would be carried out in



74
such a way that it does not interfere with current land use patterns of the herders or farmers living
in the area, nor will it result in loss of their shelter, productive assets, or access to pastures.
Irrigation will be provided through use of ground water and diesel engine driven pumps, so as to
avoid the necessity of developing major irrigation works during the pilot phase. Expenditures for
this activity have been approved for retroactive financing under the project. The PMO would be
responsible for the implementation and supervision o:f the pilot program. The pilot settlement will
be closely monitored to measure the efficiency of the various program components and also, to
identify any emerging trends in the relationship between migrants and receiving area population.
Full scale settlement would only begin after the pilot program is completed and evaluated.
(vi) Management for Migrant Settlement. The amnual plan of the migration approved by the
provincial leading group will be managed by the 'move-out' and 'move-in' County-leading
groups. The leading groups in the six 'move-out' counties would arrange with the provincial line
agencies to implement and supervise the implementation of the VSIP. The PMO would transfer
project funds to the County PMOs to implement the voluntary settlement.
(vii) Settlement Monitoring. The Qinghai Plateau CGeography Research Institute would set up a
voluntary settlement monitoring system supervised by independent experts. The system will track
five percent of the households from the time of their selection and to the time when they are
settled. Annual reports would be prepared to facilitate the PMO and Provincial Leading Group in
taking corrective measures for problems and issues identified.
H. Component 6 - Social Sector Services (US$8.7 million)
Basic Health Services
Objectives. The objective of the health investment is to improve health service in the project area
to meet the local inhabitants' basic health needs. It will be achieved through improving the
quality of and access to basic health service delivery at the primary level, especially in the
villages.
Component Activities. The project would finance the establishment of new health services in the
voluntary settlement area in Qinghai and in the 'move-out' areas with four components: i)
development of new health facilities; ii) training of health workers; iii) health education and
health service management; and iv) cooperative medical financing. Financing would include civil
works for township health centers and village health clinics, medical equipment and medicine
supply, training of health workers, health education and management training.
In Gansu and Inner Mongolia, the health network would be improved through i) better basic
health service delivery; ii) interventions for priority diseases; iii) establishment of a rural
Cooperative Medical System; and iv) strengthening of health service management.
Selection of Target Villages. In the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, the health investment
would be mostly focused on the 917 project villages. Some of these villages already have ongoing
program for control of tuberculosis due to its high public health significance. The tuberculosis
control program would be expanded to cover all villages in the 15 project counties. In 6 counties
where the IDA-assisted Health VI is ongoing, investment would be scaled down to avoid
duplication. All counties in Gansu are covered by Health V (Tuberculosis Control) and Health
VII (Disease Prevention); five of the 12 project counties have also been covered by Health VIII,
and three of a total of 12 project counties have been covered by the Health VI Project. To avoid
overlapping coverage, the project investment will be allocated in the 1,002 project villages not
covered by Health VI and VIII.



75
Basic Education Services (Qinghai)
Objectives. The project would address the education needs in and around the voluntary
resettlement area and the 'move-out' counties in Qinghai and would, over a period of six years, i)
provide basic education access to the school-age children of the migrants consistent with the
national target of establishing universal nine-year primary education by the year 2000; ii) ensure
that overall education development in the voluntary settlement area would be at the same level as
that of the 'move out' area; and iii) provide vocational and adult education to satisfy all other
education needs of the migrant population.
School Enrollment and Teaching Staff Requirements. Based on the targeted migrant
population (61,800) and the provincial education statistical data, children falling into the primary
school age group and junior secondary school age group would number 8,000 and 3,700
respectively. It is also estimated that 50 percent of the secondary school students would continue
their education in senior high schools.
There will be 21 newly established administrative villages in the project area. To meet the
education requirements, the component would include: i) 6 complete primary schools with 6
classes for 4-6 natural villages (half of the schools will be minority schools); ii) 5 complete
primary schools (of which 3 would be for minority nationalities) with 12 classes; iii) 10 joint
primary and junior secondary schools with capacity for 4,050 primary and junior secondary
school students respectively (5 of them will be minority schools), and provision of one year
vocational education for the graduates who will not continue their education in high school; and
iv) expansion of the existing No. I Secondary School in Dulan County to admit the high schools
students from the voluntary settlement area. Based on the norms of the Ministry of Education and
the actual situation in Qinghai Province, the number of teaching staff required has been estimated
according to the ratios of class to staff of: 1:2.2 for primary schools (1:1.7 for full time teachers
and 1:0.5 for supporting staff); 1:3.7 for junior secondary schools (1:2.5 for teachers and 1:1.2 for
supporting staff) and 1:4 for high school (1:2.8 for teachers and 1:1.2 for supporting staff). In all,
there would be, respectively, 409, 333 and 84 teachers to be hired for primary, junior secondary
and senior high schools in the project area.
Minority Schools. Minority schools would be established in the 'move-in' and 'move-out' areas
to provide basic education to minority nationalities. The schools would be equipped with minority
language text books and other teaching materials . Qualified minority nationality teachers would
be recruited in accordance with the standard class to teacher to staff ratio. To encourage poor
minority students to enroll in these schools, parents would be exempted from school fees. For
Tibetans and Mongol herders in the 'move-in' area, the project would provide access to basic
education for the first time. Similarly, in the 'move-out' area, poor Tibetan children would have
access to Tibetan schools and as part of the cultural revival effort under the project.
Component Activities. The project would finance the construction of 38,603 square meters of
new school building, including 10,062 for 11 primary schools, 23,545 square meters for 10 joint
primary and junior secondary schools, and 4,996 square meters for the expansion of the existing
No. 1 Secondary School in Dulan County. The project would equip the schools with 7,100 sets of
tables and chairs, 830 sets of office desks and chairs, 1,390 beds for the student dormitories and
248 beds for single teacher dormitories. The project would also equip each school with one set of
teaching equipment and library books, at 2.5 volumes per primary school student, 3.5 volumes
per junior secondary school and 6 volumes per senior high school student. A vehicle for
transporting daily necessities would also be provided. In addition, schools or education programs
for minority communities would be constructed or developed elsewhere in Dulan County and the
'move-out' counties.



76
Implementation Arrangements. A leading group has been established in Qinghai Provincial
Education Committee (PEdC), and a Deputy Director of the PEdC is the head of the group while
the members come from all relevant Divisions of the PEdC. The provincial and Haidong
Prefecture offices in charge of the implementation of the IDA-assisted Third Basic Education
Project and Haixi Prefecture and Dulan County will be responsible for the overall coordination
and daily implementation management of the component, including design and construction of
school buildings, procurement of the facilities and books, etc. The technical standards and
procedures for the Third Basic Education project vwould be applied to implementation of this
component, including procurement guidelines and procedures. The Education Bureaus of the
move out counties will also monitor the implementation progress, especially in assigning teaching
staff, arranging teacher training, and administering poor student assistance, etc. The Bureaus will
also take care of the new schools management and operations before the schools are transferred to
the 'move out' counties.
I. Component 8 - Institutional Building and Project Management (US$10.6 million)
Institutional Overview
Project Leading Groups and Project Management Offices would have principal responsibility for
overall project implementation. At the Provincial/Regional level, Project Leading Group (PLGs)
have been set up to: i) mobilize institutional, technical, and financial resources and support for the
preparation and implementation of the project; and ii) provide coordination and monitoring
functions. In addition, PMOs have been established to ensure effective and timely implementation
of the project. At levels from the Prefecture/League/Municipal down to Township/Sumu levels,
PLGs and PMOs have been set up. Technical Bureaus at the County level directly involved in the
project would, in close cooperation with the Township/Sumu government and their officers at the
administrative village level, play a key role in the day-to-day implementation of the project. The
Provincial Health and Educational Departmnents would take leading roles in preparation and
implementation of the health and education components. Technical Advisory Groups at both the
Provincial/Regional and County/Banner levels have been set up to provide technical support for
project implementation. Township Water Stations and Village Project Implementation Groups
have been set up at Township/Sumu and Village levels respectively. The State Council's Leading
Group for Poverty Reduction and Development of the State Council and the Foreign Capital
Project Management Center at the central level would be responsible for coordination, guidance,
monitoring and provision of services with regard to project implementation. The State Statistical
Bureau would undertake independent poverty monitoring.
Provincial/Regional Level. In Gansu, the World Blank Loan Executive Committee (WBLEC)
headed by the Executive Vice Governor, is the highest decision body and exercises unified-
leadership on issues related to all World Bank assisted projects. The World Bank Office (WBO),
set up in the PFB, is the secretariat of WBLEC, and deals with day-to-day work on behalf of
WBLEC, including coordination, supervision, external liaison and financial management.
In Gansu, the PLG is headed by two Vice Governors responsible respectively for finance and
agriculture and works under the unified leadership of WBLEC. In the case of Inner Mongolia, a
Deputy Party Secretary General serves as Chairman, and a Vice Chairman of the People's
Congress and a Vice Governor in charge of poverty reduction serve as deputy Chairmen. PLGs
are assisted by representatives from the Provincial Poverty Reduction Office, Finance Bureau,
Development and Planning Commission, the several technical bureaus directly involved in the
project (including the Agriculture, Forestry, Animnal Husbandry, Water Conservancy, Rural
Enterprises, Health, Power Supply, Labor, Statistics and Transportation Bureaus, Economic



77
Cooperation and Foreign Trade Commission, Provincial Women's Federation and Agricultural
Bank of China, etc.). In Qinghai the PLG is headed by the Executive Vice Governor, and a Vice
Governor responsible for poverty reduction is the Deputy Head. PLG is assisted by Directors
from the Provincial Poverty Reduction Office, Finance Department, Development and Planning
Commission, the several technical bureaus directly involved in the project, including the ABC,
Departments of Agriculture and Forestry, Water Conservancy, Animal Husbandry, Public
Security, Health, Civil Affairs, Construction and Transportation, Commissions of Education,
Minority Nationality, Science and Technology, Bureaus of Rural Enterprises, Power Supply,
Labor, Statistics and Environment, Land Administration, and Women's Federation. It includes
also Commissioners of the Haidong and Haixi Prefectures. The main responsibilities of the PLGs
are to formulate project-related policies and plans, approve sub-project designs, coordinate
among various technical departments/bureaus, and between the 'move-in' and 'move-out' areas
in Qinghai, and mobilize institutional, technical and financial resources and support for
implementation of the project. PLGs would also provide coordination and monitoring functions.
PMOs have been established and would serve as the secretariats for the PLGs. PMOs would be
responsible for managing overall project implementation. During project implementation, most of
the PMO staff in Qinghai would be stationed in Dulan County, as the Provincial Project
Executive Office (PPEO) responsible for the overall project management. The PMOs'
responsibilities include: i) review and approve feasibility studies prepared by the Project Counties
and consolidated by Prefectures/Leagues/Municipalities; ii) draw up annual work programs and
budgets; iii) review and approve lower-level PMO work plans; iv) approve disbursement of Bank
and government funds to local government accounts; v) arrange the preparation of and furnish to
the Bank detailed project accounts, audits, withdrawal applications and progress reports; vi)
arrange common procurement; vii) provide guidance to and coordinate the work of project
Prefectures/Leagues/Municipalities and Banners/Counties; and viii) undertake project monitoring
of physical and financial progress and evaluation of project impact. They would also directly
implement the institutional development component. The PMOs would sign service agreements
with participating agencies defining their detailed responsibilities and duties, rights and
obligations during project implementation. In Qinghai, the PMO and PPEO would work closely
with the provincial technical agencies in implementing the various components. PMOs have total
staff positions of 20, 35 and 45 in Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai, respectively.
The Xiangride River Water Conservancy Administration (XRWCA) in Qinghai would be
established by the Provincial Department of Water Conservancy, following completion of the
water conservancy component. XRWCA would in close cooperation with PMO and PPEO,
manage large-scale water conservancy works and ensure dam safety.
A Labor Mobility Development Center (LMDC) has been set up under the Provincial PMO of
Gansu, to be responsible for the labor mobility component. The Provincial Labor Department in
Gansu would assist PMO/LMDC implementation of the labor mobility component.
The Provincial/Regional Departments of Health and Qinghai's Education Bureau would take the
leading role in implementation of the health and education components respectively.
Technical Advisory Groups (TAGs) have been established, composed of specialists in the fields
of agriculture, forestry, water conservancy, environment protection, and health. The Group's
responsibilities are to: i) review feasibility studies of various project components and correctness
of various economic and technical indicators; and ii) provide technical information, guidance,
advice, and training during project implementation.
Rural Enterprise Working Groups are set up to: i) study and formulate policies pertaining the
rural enterprises component; and ii) review feasibility studies of the component.



78
Entrusted by WBO, ABC would be responsible for provision of fertilizer credit to farmers and
loans (in Gansu and Qinghia) for the rural enterprise component based on the MOU signed
between ABC and the PMOs.
Prefecture/League/Municipal Level. PLGs in Inner Mongolia have been set up in all the six
project Leagues/Municipalities. They are headed by the Commissioners. The Deputy
Commissioners in charge of poverty reduction serves as the Deputy Head. Project related
technical bureaus are members of the PLGs. In Qinaghai, PLGs have been set up in Haidong
('move-out') and Haixi ('move-in') Prefectures. They are headed by the Commissioners.
PMOs have been set up, with the number of positions varying from 3 to 5. They have the status of
a section in the Poverty Reduction Office. Their responsibilities include: i) serving as a contact
between the Province/Region and County/Banner; ii I channeling Bank funds to the lower level;
iii) ensuring provision of government counterpart ftnd of lower levels; iv) providing technical
support to the lower level; and v) financial management and ensuring repayment of loans and
credit. PMOs in both 'move-in' and 'move-out' areas of Qinghai have been set up. They have the
status of a section in the Poverty Reduction Office (Haidong), or the Integrated Agricultural
Development Office (Haixi). The responsibilities of the PMOs in the 'move-out' areas include: i)
serving as a contact between the Province and the Counties; ii) channeling Bank funds to the
lower level; iii) providing guidance and coordinating work of the project counties; iv) providing
technical support to the lower level; and v) financial management. Another responsibility of the
PMO in 'move-in' areas is to facilitate project implementation.
County/Banner Level. PLGs have also been established to fully mobilize existing institutional
resources and guarantee coordination among various agencies and units. Chaired by magistrates,
PLGs would take full responsibility for project implementation in their respective County/Banner.
In Qinghai, PLGs have also been established at the County level, both in 'move-in' and 'move-
out' areas, to fully mobilize existing institutional resources. Chaired by the County magistrate, the
County PLGs would take full responsibility for project implementation in their respective
County.
Each PMO has 10-15 staff positions. They serve as the secretariats for the County PLGs, and the
contact with project organizations at higher levels. They would also be responsible for project
monitoring and evaluation, financial management, arrangement of common procurement and
distribution of goods and services procured, and ccmmon training components in conjunction
with line agencies at the County level. The County PMVOs serve as the secretariats for the County
PLGs, and the contact with project organizations at higher levels. Responsibilities of the PMOs in
Qinghai's 'move-out' areas would be to: i) prepare armual settlement plan and budget; ii) review
and approve the migrants lists furnished by townships and villages, iii) approve moving plans for
teachers, doctors and administrative staff who would work in the 'move-in' area and ensure
payment of their salary; iv) establish new townships in the 'move-in' areas; v) project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation; vi) financial management and loan repayment. The
PMO in the 'move-in' area would: i) prepare and furnish a land development program and ensure
land availability; ii) coordinate use of water, power and roads in the development area; iii) set up
administrative agencies in the newly developed areas; and iv) provide land for new township
seats.
Technical bureaus directly involved in the project vwould, in close cooperation with TWSs and
VPIGs, be responsible for the day-to-day execution of the project in their corresponding area,
based upon a service agreement that would be signed with the County/Banner PMOs. TAGs have
also been set up. Their function is similar to that at the Provincial/Regional level.



79
Township/Sumu Level. Township Workstations (TWSs) are responsible for formulating the
village work program, credit delivery and recovery, goods distribution, preliminary monitoring
and evaluation of project activities, technical guidance and training and provision of market
information to the households. Township/Sumu Extension Stations would be comprehensive
technical units integrating crop production, animal husbandry, grassland, forestry, water
conservancy, and other technicians. Local nongovernmental organizations, such as All China
Women's Federation (ACWF), would also be involved in the implementation of the project in
activities such as farmers' training and monitoring and evaluation.
Village/Gacha Level. In addition to members of the Village/Gacha Committee, VPEGs would
include at least one household representative. The Technical Service Groups would include at
least one technician, who is seconded from the Township/Sumu and would stay at least 4 months
per year in the village, and 2-3 skilled farmers. Their major responsibilities include assisting the
PMOs at the County/Banner and Township/Sumu levels to establish the "Project Implementation
Manual" or "Household Beneficial Card;" select migrants; monitor and supervise project
implementation by farmer households; undertake technical training and credit recovery and
provide market information.
Role of Beneficiaries
Throughout project preparation, project households have been actively involved in designing a
menu of options to meet their development needs. They have been involved in farm model and
village design through household interviews. Beyond this participation in project activities, they
would also be involved in project monitoring and supervision through provision of requested data
and submission of special reports. By emphasizing integrated village development and household
training, the project would demonstrate and strengthen the capacity of village organizations to
manage their own resources. This would become a key factor in sustaining land and farmer
development. Particular attention has also been given to ensuring that women are actively
involved in the project and derive positive benefits from it. Prospective migrants in Qinghai are
informed about the settlement scheme, including benefits and risks, obligations and right to refuse
settlement through a widely distributed Settlement Manual and the Information for Migrants.
Project objectives and activities have also been included in the Manual and Information for their
selection.
Various economic entities would be engaged in implementation of the project. In addition to
individual project farm households, joint household entities with various forms of ownership
would be engaged in more commercially oriented agriculture and forestry activities. Joint
ventures between farmers and local business would also be engaged in commercially oriented
large scale and intensive production.
Staff Development
Careful implementation of the project requires great strengthening of capability of PMOs at
various levels. To this end, an institutional development program would be implemented as an
integral part of the project. Human resources development, including training and technical
assistance, is one of the important areas. Attention would be paid to development planning;
project selection and appraisal; and monitoring and evaluation of project implementation. The
project would fund local and overseas training, study tours and technical assistance comprising
both foreign and local consultants. Each project component includes training and technical
assistance. With the exception of technical assistance for institution building, all project technical
assistance would support project preparation and implementation. Special attention would be paid
to the management of the large scale voluntary settlement scheme; drainage, soil and water
salinity control; and operation, maintenance and management of the large irrigation schemes.



80
Implementation And Supervision Arrangements
Implementation. The Provincial PMO and PPEO in Qinghai would work in close cooperation
with the Provincial Department of Water Conservancy on planning, designing and
implementation of the Keri and Hatu dams, Tuosou headworks, main Canals, and power
transmission line of 35 and 10 kilowatts. PMOs at Prefecture and County levels would be
responsible for construction of branch, lateral and sub-lateral canals, agriculture, forestry and
livestock activities, as well as the voluntary settlement scheme.
Supervision. In collaboration with Provincial and County PMOs, Foreign Capital Project
Management Center (FCPMC) would be responsi'ble for supervising the project's overall
progress. FCPMC would carry out its own annual on-site supervision, in addition to participating
in the Bank supervision missions. Results of such visits would be reported to the Leading Group
of Poverty Reduction and Development (LGPRD) of the State Council and the World Bank and
distributed to the PPs. In Qinghai, the Provincial PMC) and PPEO would take major responsibility
for project supervision. They would frequently visit the project sites. Technical agencies would
supervise activities under their respective sector. Findings of such on-site supervisions, including
problems identified and corrective actions required, would be included in the semiannual progress
reports. In addition, supervision would also be done in the form of household interview, regular
reporting, random sample survey, spot observation in the sample villages; sample analysis and
questionnaire, through which the beneficiaries would be actively involved in project supervision.
Physical and financial progress reports would be furnished by County/Banner PMOs to the
Prefecture/League/Municipal PMOs on a quarterly basis, which would then furnish the
consolidated reports to the Provincial/Regional PMO. Based on these, the Provincial/Regional
PMO would prepare the semiannual progress reports for submission to the World Bank. The
Provincial/Regional PMO would prepare, and furnish to the World Bank no later than six months
following the closing date, an Implementation Completion Report for the whole project, based on
the County/Banner and Prefecture/League/Municipal completion reports.
Arrangement for Project Impact Monitoring
The project's socio-economic impact on and well-being of project farmers would be monitored,
evaluated and disseminated by the State Statistical Bureau (SSB) based on an MOU which would
be signed with FCPMC on behalf of the Provinces/Region. The Qinghai Plateau Geographic
Institute would be responsible for settlement monitoring. The Provincial Institute of Environment
Sciences would be responsible for environmental impact monitoring. The Xiangride Water
Conservancy Administration would be responsible for groundwater monitoring.
Design, testing, and modification of survey questionnaires for baseline and annual follow-up-
surveys would be initiated in the first half of 1999. The baseline survey would be undertaken in
December 1999 and the follow-up surveys would be carried out annually in December till year
2004. FCPMC and SSB would collaborate on data processing and analysis, and the publication of
an annual summary report.



81
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
The total project costs are estimated at US$311.1 million with a foreign exchange cost of US$95.7
million or 31 percent of the total (excluding the US$0.6 million front-end fee). Cost estimates are
based on quantities derived from the preliminary designs, from unit prices currently prevailing for
similar construction works in the project areas and from price lists of local and overseas
manufacturers of equipment and machinery. The base cost estimates of US$275.3 million are
expressed in December 1998 prices and the exchange rate used to convert base cost estimates and
physical contingencies is Yuan 8.3 to US$1. Price contingencies of US$18.2 million for costs
incurred in foreign exchange are based on annual international price escalation rates of 1.3 percent
for 1999, 2.6 percent for 2000, 2.7 percent for 2001, 2.6 percent for 2002, and 2.5 percent for
2004-2005. Price contingencies for costs incurred in Yuan are based on annual domestic price
escalation rates of zero percent for 1999, 3.0 percent for 2000, and 5.0 percent for 2001-2005. No
price contingencies have been applied to overhead and independent monitoring expenses and costs
relating to education and rural enterprise. Physical contingencies, equivalent to US$17.6 million,
are based on an average rate of 10 percent for works and 5 percent for equipment, inputs and
materials and services. No physical contingencies have been applied to vehicles, miscellaneous
costs, and recurrent costs. Project costs are summarized in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3-1: Project Cost Summary
A. Land and Household Development         90.2            34.3         124.5
B. Irrigation and Land Improvement        48.6            25.6          74.2
C. Rural Infrastructure                   13.4            11.1          24.5
D. Rural Enterprise                        8.0             5.5          13.5
E. Labor Mobility                         13.4            0.4           13.8
F. Voluntary Settlement                    5.8            0.7           6.5
G. Social Sector Services                  4.7            3.4           8.1
H. Institutional Building & Project        6.6             3.6          10.2
Management                                                    _
Total Base Cost                           190.7           84.6         275.3
Physical Contingencies                    12.0             5.6          17.6
Price Contingencies                       12.7             5.5          18.2
Total Project Cost                       215.4            95.7         311.1
Front-end fee                              0.0             0.6          0.6
Total Financing Required                 215.4            96.3         311.7



82
Table 3-2: Project Cost Summary - Gansu
ON-                 _ 
A. Land and Household Development       43,518.8       16,608.7       60,127.5
B. Irrigation and Land Improvement      13,900.4       2,600.6       16,501.0
C. Rural Infrastructure                  7,096.1        5,342.9       12,439.0
D. Rural Enterprise                      5,923.6        4,031.9       9,955.5
E. Labor Mobility                       13,371.2         415.4        13,786.6
F. Social Sector Services (Health)       1,529.5         768.8         2,298.3
G. Institutional Building & Project      3,112.9        1,428.8        4,541.7
Management
Total Base Cost                         88,452.5       31,197.1      119,649.6
Physical Contingencies                   5,178.9        1,776.9        6,955.8
Price Contingencies                      6,070.2        1,911.2        7,981.4
.Total Project Cost                     99,701.6       34,885.2     134,586.8
Front-end fee                                            234.0          234.0
Total Financing Required                99,701.6      35,119.2      134,820.8
Table 3-3: Project Cost Summary - Inner Mongolia
A. Land and Household Development       37,940.2       13,069.8       51,010.0
B. Irrigation and Land Improvement      10,614.7        8,513.5       19,128.2
C. Rural Infrastructure                 3,333.3        2,980.4        6,313.7
|D. Rural Enterprise              l       1,384.9        1,293.4       2,678.3
E. Social Sector Services (Health)       1,145.6        1,264.0        2,409.6
F. Institutional Building & Project      1,683.2        1,212.3        2,895.5
Management
Total Base Cost                         56,,101.9      28,333.4       84,435.3
Physical Contingencies                   3,603.9        1,762.2        5,366.1
Price Contingencies                      3,740.4        1,781.9        5,522.3
Total Project Cost                      63,446.2      31,877.5       95,323.7
Front-end fee                                            233.0          233.0
Total Financing Required                63,446.2      32,110.5       95,556.7



83
Table 3-4: Project Cost Summary - Qinghai
B. Irrigation and Land Improvernent      24071.0       14,456.3       38,527.3
C. Rural Infrastructure                  2,978.3        2,721.8        5,700.1
D. Rural Enterprise                        730.8          178.4          909.2
E. Voluntary Settlement                  5,789.4          746.1        6,535.5
F. Social Sector Services                2,017.3        1,392.0        3,409.3
G. Institutional Building & Project      1,829.6          906.3        2,735.9
Management                   _                                              a
Total Base Cost                         46,153.5       25,065.1       71,218.6
Physical Contingencies                   3,192.6        2,066.0        5,258.6
Price Contingencies                      2,932.3        1,780.3        4,712.6
Total Project Cost                      52,278.4       28,911.4       81,189.8
Front-end fee                                             133.0          133.0
Total Financing Required                52,278.4       29,044.4       81,322.8



84
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Ainalysis Summary
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
Summary
Base Year: 1998
:Acdi    tvfeeFFR,                         NPV /a-        .             -            Jia  2-
Gansu                                          26.6    7483,807      28.4      891,456        15.9       18.9
1   Land and Household Development          18.9    21 [,743      19.5     230,662         13.5      15.7
2   Rural Infrastructure                    14.5      '7,213      15.3       15,351        12.1      14.2
(1) Rural Road                                               19.1       10,922        15.8       19.1
(2) Rural Water Supply                 13.7      :2,893      13.4        2,493        11.1       13.3
(3) Rural Electrification              15.6       4,319      13.5        1,936         9.2       10.6
3   Rural Enterprise                        39.0    313,508       50.7      481,028        19.5      22.7
4   Labor Mobility                          52.0      81,670      35.7       55,565         9.0       10.1
Inner Mongolia                                 18.6    246,823       20.6      328,390        10.7       12.3
1   Land and Household Development          20.0    25B,256       22.1      327,457        11.0      12.7
2   Rural Infrastructure                    14.4       4,867      14.4        6,227        11.3      13.3
(1) Rural Road                                               16.4        2,052        14.0       15.5
(2) Rural Water Supply                 13.4         713      13.3          659        10.4       12.3
(3)RuralElectrification                14.7       4,155      14.2        3,516        10.8       13.0
3   Rural Enterprise                        35.6      19,155      50.1       30,252        15.3      18.6
Qinghai                                        13.1      38,066      13.7       62,136        11.6      13.2
1   Land and Household Development          15.5    101,238       16.2      122,339        13.7      15.2
2   Rural Infrastructure                    14.6       6,811      14.5        7,417        11.8      13.6
(1) Rural Road                                               17.2        1,395        14.0       16.6
(2) Rural Water Supply                 14.7         756      15.0          836        10.2       12.1
(3) Rural Electrification              14.6       6,055      14.2        5,186        11.7       13.5
3   Rural Enterprise                        34.8       3,234      42.9        5,117        13.9       16.0
Total Project                                  20.3   1,033,696      21.9    1,281,983        13.5       15.1
/a   Based on 12% discount rate.
A. Projecl Objectives
The Project's objective is to alleviate chronic poverty for the absolute poor living in remote and
inaccessible villages of Gansu, Qinghai provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. The
Project takes an integrated approach, investing in: i) land and household development; ii) irrigatiqon
and land improvement works; iii) rural infrastructure including rural road, water supply and
electrification; iv) rural enterprise; v) labor mobility in Gansu; vi) a voluntary settlement program
in Qinghai; vii) education and health; and viii) institutional building and project management.



85
Beneficiaries
The main beneficiaries of the project are poor farmer and herder households. It is estimated that
about 1.67 million persons in 377,800 households would benefit directly from various project
activities including 1.54 million from agricultural production activities, 65,700 persons from labor
mobility and 20,200 from rural enterprises. The actual size of beneficiary households would vary
from county to county and among participating provinces but the average size of beneficiary
household is 4.4 persons including 2.4 adults and 2.0 children. In the project analysis, five typical
household sizes ranging from 3 to 7 have been adopted. The annual incremental production of the
main agricultural products at full development is estimated at: 269,000 tons of grains; 150,000
tons of cash crop products; 70,000 tons of fruit; and 40 tons of fresh water aquatic products and
1,457,000 cubic meters of timber (at final cut). An annual production of 3.2 million heads of large
and small animals, including rabbit and chicken, and 3.0 million tons of other animal production
including wool, cashmere, silkworm cocoon, goat milk and egg, are estimated at full development.
As a result of higher and improved feed production, the animal herd would increase by an average
of 5 percent for large animals and 3 percent for small animals annually in Inner Mongolia. Due to
limited grassland availability in Gansu and Qinghai project areas, the primary focus would be on
increasing feed production and modest increase in livestock population.
B. Financial Analysis
Agricultural Farm Budgets
Illustrative production models have been prepared for main crops, livestock, and forest plantation.
To reflect the variations in natural conditions and performance of crops, livestock and forest
plantation among project areas in participating provinces, a total of 38 crop models, 18 tree crop
models and 22 livestock and fishery models have been prepared which are computerized using
FARMOD software and are available on file. Production assumptions and incremental income
projections for these models would be summarized in the PIP. The with-project production
coefficients are based on actual results achieved under similar conditions and practices. However,
under the without project scenarios, yield increases are not assumed to reflect the severe land
improvement limitations, water scarcity and lack of access to technical inputs.
Farm Models
The farm and livestock models would illustrate the impact of the project on typical farm
households in terms of production costs, farm labor use, food production, farm incomes, and return
to labor. These models are indicative and farmer households are encouraged to make free choice of
production activities in any combinations during project implementation as long as the basic
principles agreed during project preparation are followed. These would include technical norms
established for these activities, upper limit of per capita investment (not to exceed the agreesd
level), poverty reduction targets, resource availability (land, water and organic manure), market
opportunities for produce, adequate income to meet all costs and for repayment. The per capita
income (at 1998 price) without project for all these models is only about Yuan 440. With project,
these households' financial situation would improve substantially to reach a per capita income of
Yuan 946 for Gansu, Yuan 1,251 for Inner Mongolia and Yuan 1,614 for Qinghai at full
development. Food security problems have also been addressed. With project, per capita grain
availability would reach 320 kg for Gansu, 1,100 kg for Inner Mongolia and 1,250 kg-for Qinghai,
all exceeding the target set by respective provincial governments for the project, sufficient to feed
family members and supporting household-based livestock production activities.
The baseline survey for the project indicated surplus household farmn labor would meet the
project's incremental demand for labor and other project activities would involve equipment and
hire contractual labor for major irrigation works, rural infrastructure and medium size rural



86
enterprises. These project activities would offer additional employment opportunities, though short
term, to surplus household labor in project areas. As a result, the return per labor day for
household activities would reach Yuan 25 for Gansu, Yuan 19 for Inner Mongolia and Yuan 36 for
Qinghai, much higher than the average opportunity cost of unskilled labor.
Results of Financial Analysis
Rural Water Supply and Rural Electrification. Rural water supply and rural electrification are
essential components to poverty reduction. The project would support village-based and low-cost
water supply facilities including piped and non-piped systems to provide safe drinking water for
villagers and animals. The project would also support extension of power lines to draw electricity
for household use, agro-processing, and other uses in selective project areas. Water and electricity
charges are adequate to cover operation and maintenance costs and marginally recover the capital
costs of these systems. The financial analysis for these two sub-projects shows marginal returns
around 14 percent (between 13.4 percent and 15.6 percent). More detailed analyses for these sub-
projects are carried out in economic analysis.
Rural Enterprises. The proposed rural enterprises are largely small-scale labor intensive activities
for construction to process food, feed, fruit, fiber, and traditional Chinese herbs using locally
available materials and technology. Some medium-sized processing facilities in Gansu would also
be supported by the project that will include tea, alfalfa, and commercial pig farms. In Inner
Mongolia, the project would support village-based f-atrm machinery stations to provide improved
mechanized fanning services. Based on representative rural enterprise investments, the financial
projections show robust returns with financial rate of returns ranging from 39 percent in Gansu to
35 percent in Qinghai and 36 percent in Inner Mongolia. The returns would generate sufficient
income to repay the loans and cover operating expenses. These investments would be attracted by
an assured supply of raw materials, low labor costs, moderate market risk and favorable tax terms.
The analysis of representative rural enterprises demonstrates that the prevailing price structure
generates adequate incentives for investors.
Labor Mobility. The Labor Mobility component, designed to promote a voluntary employment
placement program in Gansu, would provide on-the-job basic skill training and offer safe and
stable off-farm employment opportunities both within and outside the province for about 65,700
surplus laborers as an effective means to reduce absolute poverty. The term "surplus laborer"
implies household members of working age who are unemployed on a year-round basis. The
analysis indicates that the financial rate of return for the component is over 52 percent based on a
conservative estimate of the job retention rate (80, 70, 65 and 60 percent during the first, second,
third and fourth year of employment respectively) and a very generous living expense allowance
(over 50 percent of the total wage income). The cash flow also shows that these laborers are in a
strong financial position to support their household agricultural production activities and timely
loan repayment. This high FRR is consistent with the results of similar programs under other_
World Bank supported projects in China. Although the potential risk for this component is
moderate, this program would not succeed if institutional coordination is weak, labor market
information system not in place and monitoring of worker conditions insufficient.



87
C. Economic Analysis
The provincial ERRs range from 14 percent in Qinghai and 28 percent in Gansu to 21 percent in
Inner Mongolia. The overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 22 percent.
Results for Project Components
Land and Household Development. The investment costs for the economic analysis include the
crop, livestock, and irrigation development costs. Since water in all project areas is limited due to
competing uses particularly for agriculture, the real cost of supplying irrigation water provides a
reasonable approximation of its opportunity cost. With the project, water charges would increase
significantly to cover all O&M costs, major repairs, as well as depreciation to reflect the economic
cost of water. The ERR calculation included all investment costs for water conservancy activities
and the analysis shows ERRs ranging from 16 percent for Qinghai and 19 percent for Gansu, to 20
percent for Inner Mongolia.
Rural Roads. About 340,000 rural villagers living in remote and upland project areas would
benefit directly from rural road improvements. The benefits would be derived mainly from: i)
transportation cost savings (lower vehicle operating costs and shorter distances); ii) higher
production efficiency; and iii) time saving for traveling passengers. These benefits would further
stimulate economic development in project areas by offering a wider choice for economic
diversification. No toll would be collected since the roads are mainly creating access to remote
townships and villages. The maintenance for these roads would depend on the revenues from
existing road user charges, the road maintenance fee, and the local government's budgetary
allocations. The justification for this component is not based on optimum average daily traffic, but
on the provision of road access to remote rural communities and population.
Economic analysis was carried out for the entire sub-project as a whole for Inner Mongolia and
Qinghai while in Gansu the analysis was based on detailed design for a representative 18.6
kilometer road. The ERRs range from 16 percent for Inner Mongolia and 17 percent for Qinghai to
19 percent for Gansu. Improved road access would generate other significant benefits including
more favorable commercial activities, growth of small enterprises, better access to schools,
extension services and health care, and more off-farm employment opportunities. The principal
exogenous parameters that could affect project benefit include: the projected rate of economic
growth in project areas, its impact on the demand for transport; the elasticity of users' propensity
to use the new roads; and adequate provision of required investments.
Rural Water Supply. There is a severe shortage of water supply in all proposed project areas for
both humans and animals due to low annual precipitation, uneven rain distribution, pollution or
remote locations. The improved water supply will: i) reduce the amount of time and resources
spent on fetching water; ii) reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases; iii) promote livestocJk
production; and iv) provide water for small enterprises that will create employment opportunities
and raise incomes for the local population. The proposed rural water supply component would
provide both piped and non-piped water supply systems to benefit 310,000 people and 1.8 million
animals in the three PPs. The economic justification of the rural water supply component is based
on the users' willingness to pay since an active water market does not exist in rural China. A 1993
survey in similar areas in China under other World Bank supported projects showed that, without
access to drinking water and where the water is transported in tanks towed by animal or farm
tractors, people paid an average of Yuan 5 per cubic meter of water. In villages with existing water
supply systems, people paid between Yuan 1.5 and Yuan 2.5 per cubic meter of water. This serves
as a reasonable measure of people's willingness to pay. For the benefit calculation for this sub-
project, the value between Yuan 0.5 to Yuan 2.1 (Yuan 0.3 to Yuan 1.3 in 1993 prices) have been
used. This is a conservative estimate, since the observed value is much lower than the surveyed



88
value in real terms and many people would be willing to pay higher prices. Based on the above
scenario, the average annual water charge paid by household for family members would account
for 2,1 percent, 1.3 percent and 1.5 percent of their expected annual net income for Gansu, Inner
Mongolia and Qinghai respectively. Accordingly, the rural water supply component would
generate an ERR of 13 percent for Gansu and Inner Mongolia and 15 percent for Qinghai.
Rural Electrification. The rural electrification component would supply power to selected project
areas where there is no or limited power supply. This is in line with the government strategy for
rural electrification to meet the requirements for: i) household use; ii) rural enterprise
development; and iii) irrigation and other uses. Ar. estimated 71,000 households would benefit
under the project. A least cost and willingness to pay approach has been adopted for the economic
analysis. The economic power prices range between Yuan 0.52 per kwh and Yuan 1.15 per kwh
were used to calculate the expected revenue. These rates are within the range of actual power
charges paid by villagers in neighboring villages with existing power supply. The average annual
power charge for household use would account for 5.9 percent, 3.4 percent and 7.9 percent of the
household expected annual net income for Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai respectively. The
estimated ERRs of 14 percent reflect the returns to investment, operating and maintenance costs in
economic prices.
Rural Enterprise. Support to rural enterprise woulct take a program approach. Investment in each
rural enterprise would be appraised by ABC. Since imost products of these rural enterprises would
be non-traded and competitive local markets exist in most project areas, the prevailing market
prices for these products were used as economic prices in the analysis. Economic prices for traded
products would be used. The financial prices for investment and other inputs were converted into
economic prices using conversion factors. The ERR calculation was based on illustrative and
typical rural enterprises resulting in ERRs of 51 percent for Gansu, 50 percent for Inner Mongolia
and 43 percent for Qinghai.
Labor Mobility. Based on local experience, remittance for labor mobility could be a major source
of cash income for poor households and the local economy. In many instances, laborers returning
from off-farm employment would introduce new technology and other externalities with refreshed
vision to benefit not only their own families but also the local economy. The ERR for labor
mobility is estimated at 36 percent.
Fiscal Impact
The project would not lead to major modifications of existing tax instruments. However,
government revenues in all three provinces would increase mainly from five different sources: i)
increased water charges from newly reclaimed lancd in Qaidamu basin, improved irrigated land in
Gansu and Inner Mongolia, and rural water supply; ii) agricultural tax on incremental agricultural
production; iii) special agricultural and forest tax on incremental project products, iv) increased or
new land lease fees collected on developed land supported by the project; and v) income tax from
rural enterprises. It is projected that net present values of Yuan 156 million of water charges, Yuan
153 million of agriculture tax and land lease fee and Yuan 186 million of income tax in the 20-
year time period would be expected.
Environmental Benefits
This is a category B project and no serious environmental risks are foreseen. Tree plantation and
grassland improvement activities would significantly ease soil erosion and reduce moisture loss
and improve the micro ecological environment. Based on experience of Bank supported forestry
development projects in China, the total plantation of 40,000 hectares of trees in the project areas
would be able to sequester and fix 21 million tons of CO2 in total equivalent to the CO2 discharge
of burning 29 million tons of standard coal during the whole growth period.



89
Social Benefits
The project would have a positive social impact although it has not been quantified. Social benefits
resulting from the project would be important as experienced in many other projects in China. The
project would result in: i) assured provision of good quality health care services to cover all
population in project areas; ii) better teachers and facilities for school children and adult education;
and iii) improved living standard and life style contributed by reliable supply of safe drinking
water; available power supply; and improved access to rural roads.
Employment
Various project activities would require a large number of laborers. It is estimated that the project
would create a total of 565,000 full-time jobs during the six-year project implementation period-
and 2.5 million person-year jobs during the project's life time, of which about 40 percent would be
for women.
Cost Recovery
The cost of chemical fertilizer, agro-chemicals, plastic film, seeds, feed concentrates, animals, and
other agricultural and livestock inputs, and rural enterprises would be recovered fully from
beneficiaries. The recovery of water conservancy and rural infrastructure investments would
depend on project specific taxes and government budgetary allocations. The planned water charge
and power charge would raise adequate funds to provide full recovery of operating and
maintenance costs. The cost of research, training, consultant services, and institutional
development would also be recovered either through fees levied directly on beneficiaries or
through taxes paid on project production. All costs for health and education would be covered
entirely by the government. Services provided by agricultural support stations and their staff
would be recovered through service fees. The costs for the labor mobility component would be
fully recovered through repayment made by those laborers successfully placed under the project.
The cost recovery analysis of the representative households shows that at present tax rates, project
charges would be able to cover project costs with a recovery index of 21 percent. Rent recovery
averages 11 percent at full development and 84 percent discounted over the life of the project.
Main Assumptions
The cost-benefit analysis is based on: i) a 20-year project life; ii) a 12 percent discount rate; iii)
total investment costs including physical contingencies; iv) input costs and output prices in 1998
constant prices; v) "with project" and "without project" scenarios; vi) one rotation for all timber
and fruit tree species; and vii) representative investment models for the rural enterprise
component.
Prices
All project outputs including surplus grains would be sold in the free markets at prices determined
by market forces. In the analysis, financial prices for agricultural outputs are projected at average
prevailing 1998 farm-gate prices in the project areas and those for rural enterprise products are
projected at ex-factory prices. Crop byproducts and animal manure are valued at their market
prices, though most of them are used on farm. All inputs used in the project are also based on free
market prices. The financial prices of pesticides and passenger vehicles are based on actual import
prices obtained from recent imports. The financial price of labor is a weighted average of the
various daily wage rates currently prevailing in the project areas.
World Bank Global Commodity Markets price projections or average export and import prices
applicable to China, with adjustment for processing, handling and transportation costs, were used



90
to estimate farm-gate economic prices in 1998 constant terms for major traded inputs and outputs.
Investment costs have been expressed in economic values using the applicable conversion factors.
For non-traded commodities, a standard conversion factor of 1 has been assumed in the analysis.
To estimate the shadow wage rate, a conversion factor of 0.9 has been used for unskilled labor
hired locally, reflecting prevailing surplus agricultural laborers with limited alternative
employment opportunity in project areas, leading to a marginal value product of labor below
market wages. All direct transfers (taxes, debt services etc.) are not included for the economic
analysis.
All prices are in or converted to local currency at the prevailing official exchange rate of US$1 to
Yuan 8.3. All conversion factors and the prices of inputs and outputs used in the project financial
and economic analysis are presented in detail in the PIPs.
Taxes
The following taxes and fees levied by either the central or local governments have been
incorporated in the financial analysis:
*  Agricultural tax varies by province and land classification ranging between Yuan 8 to
Yuan 15 per mu of cropped land. Under the Project, farmers in Qinghai would be
exempted from paying agricultural tax during the first three years;
*  A land lease fee would be introduced to recover the cost of land development. The
rates vary according to location, soil quality, and access to irrigation. On average,
Yuan 80 per mu would be charged annually after a 2-year period of exemption for
crops (including green manure crop plantation in the first year);
*  A special agricultural and forestry producit tax is levied at rates of about 10-15 percent
for fruits, 10 percent for aquatic products and 8 percent for timber;
*  A livestock sales tax is generally levied at 5 percent of animal sales; and
*  Income tax is an applicable and unified tax levied on all rural enterprises at a rate of 33
percent of net income. However, reduction or exemption of income tax for small scale
and household-based rural food and feed processing activities is often granted by local
governments.
Marketing Outlets
Continuing deregulation and expansion of the market economy throughout China have witnessed a
parallel expansion of the market (and therefore opportunities) for all agricultural products. The
number of individual and commercial traders has expanded enormously throughout the country.
Similarly, while the expansion is not so marked, the transportation sector has also witnessed
growing private sector involvement, especially for local trade where smaller quantities prevaif
These trends have greatly increased the marketing opportunities for farmers. Moreover, the freeing
up of trade means that surpluses can move to deficit areas where the demand is higher, much more
rapidly. Thus the danger of oversupply resulting in rnarkedly depressed prices has, in general, been
greatly reduced. Localized problems of imbalances in supply/demand will no doubt emerge from
time to time, especially in more remote areas. Notwithstanding this, the overall market situation
for all agricultural products, given the steadily increasing per capita demand and comparatively
rapid urbanization, should remain satisfactory during the life of the project.
The dangers of market imbalances within the two provinces is also somewhat mitigated by the
comparatively small proportion that projected project output represents in the total provincial
production of the main products concerned. The exception could be wheat, beef and mutton, rabbit



91
and possibly corn in Inner Mongolia where these products represent a significant proportion of
current provincial production.
For grain, the State Grain Purchasing stations are present in all of the County/Banner towns.
During the purchasing season, temporary buying stations are established in the main grain
producing townships. Farmers sell wheat, maize or rice to the State at the official procurement
price, which tends to be below market prices. Officially, the State purchasing agency is required to
purchase all grain delivered by farmers. During the last two years in particular, however, this
requirement has not been honored in many cases due to the bumper harvests experienced and the
resulting surplus grain offered by farmers. Despite the government attempt to 'protect' farmer
prices, they have, in many cases, been forced to sell in the market at prices below the official
'protected' price.
In addition to the State Grain Purchasing agency, private traders operate throughout the project
area and the region. Open markets exist in all townships. Traders will buy in these markets and, in
many cases, travel to the villages to negotiate purchases. Although there are many exceptions,
villages with road access are within reasonable distance to the township markets. Depending on
the volume, products are transported to the markets either by bicycle, tractor trailer or, in many
cases, by private trucks. Where a marketable surplus is produced the volumes are invariably small.
For Inner Mongolia, within the project area, most farm products are able to be sold within local
markets or to traders who transport them to more distant markets. Marketing of project area
products is not expected to present a constraint in the medium term. As part of the research
program in Inner Mongolia, a marketing study for all the main project products would be
conducted under the project.
Livestock Marketing.
The important aspects of marketing have been addressed by the PPs using two approaches:
The signing of forward contracts with livestock and meat processors and buyers; and
* The inclusion into local PMOs of marketing specialists with specific tasks of market
development and sales.
Inner Mongolia. Significant numbers of sheep, cattle, pigs, rabbits and broilers are to be marketed
under the project, and marketing arrangements are largely in place. The Shuanghui Group, China's
largest livestock processing group and joint-owner enterprise with 50 processing plants across
China, has recently purchased and renovated a combined beef, sheep and pork slaughtering and
processing plant in the project area. The Group plans to procure sheep, cattle, and pigs from the
project and has already signed supply contracts with seven of the fifteen project counties or
Banners. Broilers will be produced on contract to a local poultry-processing plant, which provides
feed and day-old chicks and also purchases the broilers. Rabbit marketing, in contrast to earlier
reservations will not be problematic in Inner Mongolia where rabbit meat is popular with minority
groups. The provincial PMO has ensured that livestock marketing specialists will be attached to all
county or Banner PMOs to i) develop and maintain contacts with livestock processors and buyers;
ii) assist in livestock marketing through organizing producers into marketing groups and setting up
feedlofs for easy access to producers; and iii) prepare and update project county/Banner marketing
reports and price information for project producers.
Gansu. Considerable efforts have been made to ensure that the marketing of livestock will not
pose a bottleneck for the project. Demand for pigs, sheep, and cattle currently far outstrips
supplies. The provincial PMO has already signed long-term (3-6 year) forward delivery contracts
with nine out of twelve project counties that include guaranteed floor prices to protect producers.



92
Qinghai. Distances to adjacent markets are considerable and can pose a constraint to effective
marketing. Fortunately, livestock output is relatively limited and largely targeted for household
consumption. The balance will therefore be easier to market. At present there is no livestock in the
project settlement area and livestock numbers and markets will increase gradually with growing
livestock numbers. A forward contracting system will be set up between project households or
villages and service centers, which in turn will pay the farmers and market the livestock. A
marketing specialist will be attached to the PMO for this purpose. Other marketing channels
include middlemen and marketing to the 'move-out' areas from whence the migrants came.
Sensitivity Analysis / Switching Values of Critical Items
Sensitivity analysis was carried out for each project component to test the impact of changes in
costs and benefits. The switching values show that, except for rural infrastructure, the ERRs are
relatively robust to wide changes in revenues and costs. Costs would need to increase by 15
percent or benefits to reduce by 13 percent, for the overall project ERR to drop down to 12
percent. All rural infrastructure components showed greater sensitivity to changes in both revenue
and costs which reflects the concentration of the benefit stream on the limited quantifiable benefits
from rural roads and the combined effect of limited benefits from large investments and the
"willingness to pay" approach for the rural water supply and rural electrification sub-components.



93
Annex 5: Project Financing Plan
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
(in US$ million equivalent)
Protject Costs =-.*===  
Investment Costs        46.0     72.9     64.0     56.4      42.5     26.4    308.1     99          5.1 .     0
Recurrent Costs          0.4      0.6      0.4      06        0.5      0.5      3.0      1       1,732.8    100
Total                 46.3     73.5     64.4     57.0     43.0     26.9    311.1    100       1,737.9    100
Financing Sources /a
IBRD/IDA/b              24.5     38.7     32.7     28.6      21.6     13.9    160.0    51
Government /c
Central Gov't          5.2      8.7      7.6      7.4      6.4       3.8     39.1     13
Provincial Gov't      10.5     16.1     14.7     13.1      9.7      6.0      70.1     22         34.8       2
Pref/County Gov't.     2.3      3.5      3.3      2.7       1.7      1.0     14.6      5        139.0       8
Beneficiaries /d         4.4      6.5      6.1       5.2      3.6      2.2     28.0      9       1,564.1     90
Total                     46.9      73.5     64.4     57.0     43.0     26.9    311.7    100       1,737.9    100
Main Assumptions:
/a Financing plan is based on total project cost by year including contingencies.
/b Bank financing includes US$60 million of IBRD loan and USSI00 million equivalent of IDA credit. The first year financing
includes required front-end fee of US$0.6 million.
/c Government financing includes funds from various sources in both cash and kind.
/d Beneficiaries' contributions are mainly in the form of labor and organic manure.
NB: The disbursement is by calendar year.



94
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                      ICB         NCB        Other /a     NBF /b      Total /c
1. Works                                              37.7         99.5         5.2        142.5
(21.9)      (37.0)       (0.0)      (58.9)
2. Goods                                   3.7         6.6         98.3        14.1        122.8
(3.7)      (6.6)       (73.7)       (0.0)       (84.1)
Equipment                                          2.8         12.2         2.8         17.8
(2.8)       (9.2)       (0.0)       (12.0)
Inputs and Materials                   2.8         3.6         86.0        10.1        102.5
(2.8)      (3.6)       (64.5)       (0.0)       (70.9)
Vehicles                               1.0         0.2          0.1         1.2          2.4
(1.0)       (0.2)       (0.1)       (0.0)        (1.2)
3. Services                                                         8.1         0.5          8.6
(8.1)       (0.0)       (8.1)
Training and Study Tours                                        5.5         0.5          6.0
(5.5)       (0.0)       (5.5)
Consultant Services                                             2.6                      2.6
(2.6)                   (2.6)
4. Miscellaneous /d                                                15.4        22.0         37.3
(8.3)       (0.0)       (8.3)
Total /e                                   3.7        44.3        221.2        41.8        311.1
(3.7)      (28.5)     (127.1)        (0.0)     (159.4)
/a  Other procurement methods include works for well and purrmped irrigation, bridges, piped water supply, rural
electrification in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, minor office buildings in Qinghai and construction of processing
units in Gansu, force account and beneficiary participation for crop and livestock establishment, rural
infrastructure, shopping for minor equipment, vehicles, inputs, sub-loans for chemical fertilizer, training and
consultant services and monitoring activities.
/b  NBF denotes non-Bank financing.
/c  Total cost includes contingencies but excludes front-end fee.
/d  Including US$1.3 million for monitoring activities for project monitoring, poverty monitoring, environmental
monitoring and voluntary settlement monitoring, US$14.1 raillion for labor placement, US$5.6 million for
overhead and project implementation, US$2.4 million for survey and design, US$ 1.1 million for other monitoring,_
and supervision, US$6.3 million for settlement allowance, US$3 million for recurrent costs and US$3.6 million
for other non-Bank funded activities.
/e  The totals may not tally due to rounding.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by lhe Bank including contingencies.



95
Annex 6, Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services Expenditure                 Selection Method /a                      Total Cost (including
Category              QCB   QBS   SFB    LCS    CQ    Other  NB.                  contingencies)
A. Firms                          0.5                                                              0.5
(0.5)                                                           (0.5)
B. Individuals                                                          2.1                        2.1
(2.1)                     (2.1)
Total                             0.5                                   2.1                        2.6
(0.5)                                (2.1)                     (2.6)
/a  QCBS - Quality and Cost-Based Selection, QBS - Quality-Based Selection, SFB - Selection under a Fixed Budget,
LCS - Least-Cost Selection, CQ - Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications, Other - Selection of Individual
Consultants, Commercial Practices, etc.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.



96
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category            Contract Value        Procurement Method /a        Total Value Subject to
Prior Review /b
US$ thousands                                          US$ millions
1. Works                                                                                  2.0
= or >10,000                        ICB                        0.0
= or >200<10,000                   NCB                         2.0
2. Goods                                                                                   5.4
= or >250                          ICB                         3.7
= or >100<250                      NCB                         1.7
<100                                NS                         0.0
3. Services                                                                                0.7
>100 for firms                      CG                         0.5
>50 for individuals                 CG                         0.2
Total                                                                                      8.1
/a ICB - International Competitive Bidding, NCB - National Competitive Bidding, NS - National Shopping, CG -
Selection method specified in the Bank Group Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers.
/b  Thresholds for Bank's prior review are: all ICB contracts fcr goods, the first three NCB contracts each for works
and good sin each PP, all contracts for consultant services greater than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals.



97
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IDA      IBRD      Total
Category                           Amount             Percent Disbursement
(SDR      (US$      (US$
million)   million)  million)
Gansu
(1) Works                               15.020             20.319 42%
(2) Goods                               16.443   16.126    38.435 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% for other items procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services and Training  2.679               3.634 100%
(4) Monitoring Activities/a             0.248               0.337 100%
(5) Labor Placement                              7.040      7.040 50%
(6) Front-end Fee                                0.234      0.234 100%
Sub-total                            34.391  23.400     70.000
Inner Mongolia
(I) Works                                6.108              8.253 22%
(2) Goods                               11.008  23.067     39.001 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% for other items procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services and Training   2.304              3.126 100%
(4) Monitoring Activities /a             0.285              0.387 100%
(5) Front-end Fee                                0.233      0.233 100%
Sub-total                            19.705  23.300     50.000
Qinghai
(1) Works                               17.153   7.126     30.363 59%
(2) Goods                                1.176   6.041      7.637 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
75% for other items procured locally
(3) Consultants' Services and Training   0.957               1.299 100%
(4) Monitoring Activities /a             0.419              0.569 100%
(5) Front-end Fee                                0.133      0.133 100%
Sub-total                            19.705  13.300     40.000
Total                                   73.800  60.000    160.000
/a  Including expenses for project progress monitoring by FCPMC, poverty monitoring, and environment monitoring
by provincial EPBs and voluntary settlement monitoring by the Qinghai Plateau Geography Research Institute.



98
Annex 6, Table D. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IBRD                             Disbursement                   Disbursement Profile /a
Fiscal Year/            Semestral Cumulative   Cumulative        Year/            Cumulative
Semester                   (US$ million)          (%)         Semester              (%)
2000                                                                     Year I
First (July-Dec. 1999) /b          13.3        13.3       8       First                     0
Second (Jan-June, 2000)             3.3        16.6       10      Second                   30
2001                                                                     Year 2
First (July-Dec. 2000)              9.1        25.7       16      First                    38
Second (Jan-June, 2001)            12.4        38.1       24      Second                   46
2002                                                                     Year 3
First (July-Dec. 2001)             19.4        57.5       36      First                    54
Second (Jan-June, 2002)            18.9        76.4      48       Second                   66
2003                                                                     Year 4
First (July-Dec. 2002)             16.3        92.7       58      First                    74
Second (Jan-June, 2003)            14.7       107.4       67      Second                   82
2004                                                                     Year 5
First (July-Dec. 2003)             12.9       120.3       75      First                    90
Second (Jan-June, 2004)            12.9       133.2       83      Second                   94
2005                                                                     Year 6
First (July-Dec. 2004)              8.6       141.8       89       First                   98
Second (Jan-June, 2005)             7.8       149.6       93      Second                   100
2006                                                                     Year 7
First (July-Dec. 2005)              6.2       155.8       97      First                    100
Second (Jan-June, 2006)             4.2       160.0      100      Second                   100
/a Disbursement profile for agricultural sector in China compiled by OPRPG, June 30, 1995.
/b Including front-end fee of US$0.6 million and retroactive financing of US$12.7 million to cover expenditure
incurred between January 10, 1999 and the date of the signing of the Loan/Credit Agreements.
Completion date: June 30, 2005
Closing Date: June 30, 2006



99
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
=~~~ ~
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     12           15
First Bank mission (identification)            10/04/97     10/04/97
Appraisal mission departure                    01/07/99     01/07/99
Negotiations                                   04/12/99     04/12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  09/30/99
Prepared by:
Provincial Governments of Qinghai and Gansu, and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Regional
Government assisted by the Foreign Capital Project Management Center of the Leading Group
for Poverty Alleviation and Development of the State Council.
Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD Grant, FAO, Canadian and New Zealand Trust Funds.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Aklilu, Petros                Rural Development, Task Team Leader
Ashworth, Vincent             Crops and Agricultural Services, Consultant
Bidani, Benu                  Poverty Analysis & Monitoring & Evaluation
Cheong, Chup Lim              Water Conservation/Infrastructure, Consultant
Cronberg, Christer            Rural Enterprises, Consultant
Crooks, Robert                Peer Reviewer, Environment
DeWitt, Nicolette             Legal Advisor
De Haan, Comelis              Peer Reviewer, Livestock
Durham, Sandra                Financial Management and Control
Goering, James                Peer Reviewer, Rural Development-World Vision
Han, Mengjie                  Health, Consultant
Hu, Wenbin                    Education
Kim, Hyung Min                Disbursement
Lin, Zongcheng                Anthropologist
Schumacher, Alex              Environment, Consultant
Sheehy, Dennis                Livestock, Consultant
Subbarao, Kalanidhi           Peer Reviewer, Poverty
Tay, Lang Seng                Peer Reviewer, Irrigation and Infrastructure
Wang, Xiaolan                 Financial Management and Control
Zhou, Weiguo                  Cost Estimate, Procurement, Financial & Economic Analysis
Zhu, Zhengxuan                Organization and Management, Co-Task Team Leader



100
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Gansu: Project Implementation Plan, May 1999
Inner Mongolia: Project Implementation Plan, May 13999
Qinghai: Project Implementation Plan, May 1999
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification Assistance Mission: Back-to-Office Report, October 1997
Technical Mission: Back-to-Office Report, February 1998
Project Concept Document (PCD), April 1998
Peer Reviewers Comments on the PCD, April 1998
Minutes of Project Concept Document, April 1998
Preparation Assistance Mission: Back-to-Office Report, July 1998
Pre-appraisal Mission: Back-to-Office Report, November 1998
Procurement Assessment, November 1998
C. Other
Feasibility Reports furnished by Gansu, Inner Mongolia, and Qinghai, September 1998
Social Assessment Reports-Gansu (December 1998), Inner Mongolia (August 1998) and Qinghai
(October 1998),
Environmental Impact Assessment Reports-Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai, November 1998
Land Acquisition and Compensation Plan, Gansu and Inner Mongolia, December 1998
Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan for Qinghai (including Resettlement Acton Plan),
May 1999
Report on Land Availability in Qinghai, October 1998
Dam Safety Review, September 1998
Report on Livestock, October 1998
Report on Groundwater Simulation Model for Balong Qinghai, October 1998
Assessment of Land Suitability in Qaidanu Basin, August 1998
Evaluation of Land Suitability for Irrigation, September 1998
*Including electronic files



101
Annex 9: Social Aspects
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
A. Overview
Introduction. The objective of the proposed Western Poverty Reduction Project (WPRP) is to
alleviate chronic poverty for the absolute poor living in remote and inaccessible villages of Gansu
Province, Qinghai Province and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region within the People's
Republic of China. The proposed project is the fourth in a series of World Bank-assisted poverty
reduction projects in China that support the government's Eight-Seven Poverty Reduction.Plan
(the 8-7 Plan). In all three of the Participating Provinces (PPs), project supported interventions
would enable poor households to raise their incomes through increasing grain and livestock
production sufficient to meet their basic food needs and in many cases also generating a
marketable surplus to improve their living standards. This annex summarizes the most relevant
findings and recommendations of the three provinces social assessments' (SA) prepared for the
proposed project and outlines the World Bank's evaluation of the most substantial social issues.
Preparation of Social Assessments. Due to its nature as a targeted assistance activity, the
proposed project required detailed social information for stakeholder and beneficiary
identification, participation strategy and project design. Social Assessment (SA) documents were
prepared for the three PPs by the Qinghai Plateau Geographic Research Institute, and the
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Engineering Design Institute of the Agricultural and Animal
Husbandry College of Inner Mongolia. The SA documents for Gansu were prepared by local
social scientists, coordinated by the Western Poverty Reduction Project Gansu Project Office. In
addition, a Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan (VSIP) was prepared for Qinghai which
includes an Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as an annex, prepared in accordance
with OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The SAs and the VSIP include Local Beneficiaries
Action Plans. The SA documents and the VSIP were fumished to the Bank prior to appraisal and
have been made available in the PPs to project-affected groups upon request. The SAs were
carried out in close coordination with the environmental assessment work, under supervision of a
World Bank social scientist taking into consideration OD 4.20, Indigenous People.
Lessons Learned. Since the project encompasses some multi-nationality districts, particularly in
Qinghai, Bank guidelines and experience elsewhere in China, working in such with ethnically
mixed areas were deemed relevant. The Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project, was reviewed as a useful
model for lessons learned of voluntary resettlement from a degraded and desperately poor
mountain area to a low-lying newly irrigated district with far greater subsistence and economic
potential. Project start-up was not all smooth. One particular issue which arose was that, although
a very thorough and adequate job of migrant selection and preparation was conducted, more
attention could have been given to foreseeing the physical needs (primarily inadequacy of wate.-
for desalinization) during project start-up. These experiences were taken into account in the
design of the proposed project. Lessons learned from the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project, have been
transferred to the proposed project.
Potential Adverse Impacts. The SAs have identified and analyzed the following potential
adverse impacts of project activities on local society have: i) possible adverse environmental
impacts; ii) land acquisition for road construction and enterprise establishment; iii) possibly
inequitable distribution of benefits (including to women); and iv) issues related to ethnic minority
rights. These findings are described below. In addition, the SAs recommended mitigation
measures that have been included in project design and will be monitored during project
implementation. Specific issues related to the voluntary settlement in Qinghai are described
separately. The VSIP for Qinghai covers social, environmental and financial issues, presenting



102
the rationale for the voluntary settlement, selection criteria for migrants, procedures for
migration, establishment of new sites and development of social services.
Use of Social Assessments in Design. The results of the SAs, obtained through beneficiary
consultation and stakeholder analysis, were used to ensure that the project objectives and
interventions are appropriate to the targeted beneficiaries and that the changes proposed in the
agricultural, animal husbandry, and rural infrastructure components and Qinghai's voluntary
settlement component, are acceptable to the affected population. The SAs also seek to ensure that
changes brought about by the project are equitable and effective for all, irrespective of gender,
ethnic, and social differences. Impacted stakeholders' views, have been analyzed and
incorporated into the project design. Moreover the World Bank will pay great attention during
project supervision to the proper implementation of these recommendations.
B. Social Assessment Preparation Process
Assessment of Methodologies. By and large, social assessments in China are carried out in a
satisfactory manner. The administration of the social assessment methodologies, and particularly
quantitative approaches are excellent. Qualitative approaches are less well developed, however,
and even when implemented, often compromise respondent confidentiality. This is a common
weakness in assessment techniques carried out in China but are usually offset in the initial data
gathering stage through the use of structured interviews and focus groups. This is a common
practice in poverty related projects in China that has proven a reliable methodology. This was
also the methodology applied to the Project.
Social Surveys. The methodology of the SAs and their embedded poverty assessments were
highly participatory in the form of interviews, focus groups and public meetings. In addition, the
SA team in Qinghai conducted extensive socio-economic surveys in both the 'move-out' and
move-in' areas. In the 'move-in' area, a 5 percent sample survey was conducted including
herders, women, religious leaders, and local cadres. This survey also attempted to access minority
nationality sentiment. Included in the sample were 8.4% of the area's Mongols, 9.9% of the
Tibetans, 6.7% of the Hui, and 2.2% of the Han. A special survey was conducted for all 63 herder
households directly affected by project land acquisition. Prior to finalization of project
preparation, the SAs and the VSIP (for Qinghai) were discussed with selected households.
Interviews were carried out by minority interviewers, where appropriate.
C. Selection and Characteristics of Project Areas
Inner Mongolia. 916 villages/gachas and 136 townships/sumus in 15 counties/banners were
selected. All the counties/banners are nationally designated poverty counties, with over
31 percent poverty incidence. Priority has been given to townships with large numbers of ethnic
minorities. The average annual per capita income of these poverty counties is Yuan 914, about-
57 percent of the provincial average. The annual per capita grain production in these poverty
counties is 467 kg, about 70 percent of the provincial average. The project's direct beneficiaries
are about 674,000 people in 167,100 households with an average per capita income during
1994-96 below Yuan 580 for farmning households and Yuan 950 for herders.
Gansu. 2,234 villages in 185 townships in 12 national poverty counties were selected as project
areas, accounting for 23 percent of the 53 poverty counties in the province. About 29 percent of
the population of these counties are classified as poverty households, about 1.5 times the
provincial average (19 percent). The average annual per capita income of these poverty counties
is Yuan 750 (in 1998 prices), about 68 percent of the provincial average. The annual per capita
grain production in these poverty counties is 240 kg, about 59 percent of the provincial average.
At the village level, the poverty rate of the project villages is 58 percent, with an average income



103
of Yuan 506 per year. Direct beneficiaries consist of about 929,600 people in 197,060 households
with an average per capita income below Yuan 500.
Qinghai. There are 14 national poverty counties in Qinghai, of which six are located in the arid
and environmentally degraded mountainous area to the east (Minhe, Xunhua, Hualong, Pingan,
Huangyuan, and Datong). These counties have a total rural population of about 1.33 million
people, about 114 people per square kilometers, over 18 times the average provincial rate.
Minority nationalities account for 51 percent of the total population of these counties. The
average annual per capita income of these poverty counties is Yuan 755, about 64 percent of the
provincial average. The project is proposing to reclaim 19,200 hectares of wasteland in Xiangride
Balong area of Dulan County, 450 kilometers from the six poverty counties listed above, for a
voluntary settlement of about 57,800 poor from these counties. Dulan County has a total land area
of 5.2 million hectares. The proposed project area is located in Balong and Zongjia townships,
which have a total land area of 1,563,800 hectares. Three subsistence strategies characterize the
area: the nomadic herders (60 percent), the sedentary herders (9 percent), and farmers (31
percent).
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Provinces. The total population in three project provinces
comprises various ethnic population groups with Han Chinese in predominance. In Gansu, Han
make up 88 percent while the minorities (largely Hui, Tibetan, Mongol, Kazak, and Yugu)
accounts for 12 percent. In Inner Mongolia, the main groups are Han (79 percent), Mongol (16
percent), Manchu (2 percent), Hui (1 percent), and other minorities (2 percent including Dawer,
Korean, Ewenke etc.). In Qinghai, the total population is made up of Han (57 percent), Tibetan
(21 percent), Hui (14 percent), Tu (3 percent), Salar (2 percent), Mongol (2 percent) and other
minorities (1 percent).
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Areas. The composition of beneficiaries in project areas
varies among project provinces. In Gansu, Hui account for 7 percent while Han are 93 percent. In
Inner Mongolia, about 14 percent of the beneficiaries are minorities and 86 percent Han. The
ethnic composition of project beneficiaries in Gansu and Inner Mongolia is largely in proportion
to the population composition in the project counties/banners. In Qinghai, the migrants from the
six 'move-out' counties are composed of Han (42 percent), Tibetan (6 percent), Hui (36 percent),
Salar (7 percent), and Tu (9 percent). The 'move-in' county (Dulan) is comprised of Han (53
percent), Tibetan (23 percent), Mongol (14 percent), Hui (7 percent), and other minorities (3
percent). The project-affected population in 'move-in' townships is Mongol (69 percent), Han (26
percent), and Hui (5 percent).
D. Stakeholder Analysis and Selection of Beneficiaries.
Selection of Beneficiaries. In Inner Mongolia, only nationally designated poverty townships with
more than 30 percent of poor villages can participate. Participating villages must have at least half
of their households to be a poverty household. In Gansu project Townships are required to have
an average per capita income below Yuan 630 and per capita grain production below 300 kg.
Project villages are required to have an average per capita income below Yuan 580 and per capita
grain production below 300 kg.
Selection of the 'move-out' population in Qinghai was based on socio-economic surveys and
beneficiary consultations. Designated poverty townships and villages were selected for
resettlement. Household participation in the program is fully voluntary. The household surveys
indicated that a vast majority (over 90 percent) would like to move. Those wanting to move stated
reasons such as scarcity of arable land, poor soil, and inability to improve living conditions.
Those unwilling to move expressed strong attachment to their native place, enjoy comparatively
better living conditions, and are afraid of an unknown environment. Households' participation in



104
the project was elicited and mobilized through radio broadcasting, bulletins, village meetings, and
direct door-to-door discussions. Interested households have submitted an application expressing
their interest to participate. All together about 170,000 people have expressed their interest in
resettling. A preliminary selection has been made with an ethnic composition of Han (42 percent),
Hui (36 percent), Tibetan (6 percent), Salar (7 percent), and Tu (9 percent). Final selection of
households will be published for ptilic viewing.
Areas participating in the project were selected as follows: townships with more than 30 percent
of population below poverty line; villages with more than 50 percent of population below poverty
line, with a minimum of 40 percent for minority villages included among project villages. The
most important household selection criteria are:
* maximum annual per capita net income of Yuan 300 per year and grain production
of 140 kg;
* lack of potable water; and
*  strong aspiration for migration.
E. Project Impact and Mitigation Measures
The SAs identified and analyzed potential adverse social impacts of project activities on local
society including: i) possible adverse environmental impacts; ii) land acquisition; iii) possibly
inequitable distribution of benefits (including to women); and iv) issues related to ethnic minority
rights. These issues and concerns are elaborated below.
Possible Adverse Environment Impacts
No major concerns regarding environmental issues were identified in the SAs in Gansu and Inner
Mongolia because the bulk of the proposed project activities are expected to produce positive
environmental impacts. In Qinghai, the main concern identified in the SA is related to the fragile
ecology in the 'move-in' area. Much of the proposed irrigation land in the 'move-in' area consists
of wind-formed hummocks susceptible to wind erosion and the leveling and development of this
land presents well-recognized environmental risks. The protection strategy to be adopted during
the initial years of the project will be to level alternating strips of land, leaving the intervening
unleveled strips to act as wind-breaks, and to avoid undertaking land leveling activities during the
windy spring months. The land development process also involves extensive planting of trees in
shelterbelts that will provide protection against wind erosion in the longer term. The agricultural
development adjacent to the project area has overcome such environmental risks. The
environmental issues are analyzed in detail in Annex 1 0.
Land Acquisition and Project Affected People
In Inner Mongolia and Gansu, very limited amounts of land may be acquired for the purpose of
road construction and establishment of rural enterprises. Land Acquisition and Compensation
Plans, covering an assessment of the surveyed landLs, compensation procedures, amounts and
methods of compensation, and management, supervision and grievance mechanisms have been
adopted. In Qinghai, there are about 4,000 farmers and herders in the 'move-in' area that would
be affected by the proposed project. Resettlement Action Plan has been prepared for Qinghai.
Land Areas to be Acquired. In Inner Mongolia, the construction of a Class III, 45 kilometer
road would require 40 hectares of Gobi grassland. The road would connect one sumu (township)
and 583 grazing sites and would benefit 27,000 people of which 9,400 are designated poverty
households. The land is owned by three gachas and is not inhabited or used for grazing. In Gansu,
road construction and rural enterprise establishment would require land acquisition from local
communities. The total amount of land acquisition for roads is 85 hectares, of which 20 hectares



105
are dry farmland and the rest wasteland. Land acquisition will take place in 29 project townships
in seven counties. It will affect 9,552 people in 1,931 farm households with lease agreements. No
land acquisition would result in relocation of existing houses. Resettlement Action Plans have
been prepared for both provinces.
In Qinghai, the proposed project would affect 201 households with 1,504 herders in Zongjia
Township and 399 households with 2,496 farmers and herders in Balong Township. The primary
affected group consists of 63 households with 352 herders with access to 1,333 hectares of leased,
poor quality spring and winter pasture stretching along the northern boundary of the project area.
Another group of 289 households with 2,411 herders uses the project south-north corridor as a
passageway. The third group of 248 households with 1,237 members farms amidst a dilapidated
irrigation scheme.
Compensation Principles and Rules. The project will compensate people affected by land
acquisition according to the Bank's OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement and national and
provincial rules and regulations. In Inner Mongolia, the farmland compensation rate is Yuan 100
per mu and for grassland, Yuan 60 per mu. The total compensation in Inner Mongolia is
estimated to Yuan 120,000. The gachas intend to use the proceeds for grassland rehabilitation in
the surrounding overgrazed pastures. In Gansu, specific land acquisition must be examined and
verified by the land management authorities, prior to approval. Compensation for farmland
consists of land compensation, land settlement subsidy, and crop compensation.
In Qinghai, the proposed project has developed three compensation packages in consultation with
the affected farmers and herders, village leaders and minority religious representatives. For the 63
herder households leasing spring and winter pasture, compensation is made by trading in the poor
quality grazing land for irrigated forage land lands in accordance with a formula based on their
existing and new lands' productivity. In addition, each herder household will be allocated, free of
charge, 0.04 hectares of land for housing and will enjoy the same preferential policies established
for the resettlement migrants (access to settlement subsidies, water supply, electricity, schools,
and health care clinics). For the 289 households using the land as public passage way to grazing
lands north of the project area, three fenced-off transit corridors will be established to allow the
herders to move their animals across the proposed project area to graze in the natural pasture. In
addition, the herders would also acquire 0.04 hectare of land for housing and 0.31 ha for farming
(cultivation- 0.22, pasture- 0.04, forestry-0.05), on the same terms and conditions as the
resettlement migrants. The 248 households living in the old irrigation area would be provided
improved irrigation services supplied by the project. Those farmers with less than 0.31 ha of
farmland (the standard set for migrant settlers) will be receiving new land up to this standard.
Management and Monitoring of Land Acquisition and Compensation. Provincial PMOs take
the overall responsibility for land acquisition and assign expert groups to carry out external
monitoring for land acquisition. County PMOs would plan and manage land acquisition and-
ensure that procedures are followed. County level project monitoring plans include monitoring
for land acquisition. Land management authorities and the Grassland Monitoring Station inInner
Mongolia would supervise and monitor the process of land acquisition. The Land Management
Bureaus approve land acquisition and change of land uses.



106
Ensuring Equitable Distribution of Benefits
The SAs identified some concerns that the benefits of the proposed activities may be inequitably
distributed among ethnic nationalities, women and project affected households, including a
concern, that non-poor households would benefit. Transparent selection rules have been designed
and implementation of these rules will be closely supervised.
Participation of Women. The SAs paid special attention to integrate women's concerns into
project design with specific project components benefiting women. The current situation of
women in the PPs was analyzed in detail. Extensive interviews and group sessions were
organized to listen to women and their suggestions in terms of the project design. This process
was found especially useful to ensure the participation of those ethnic minority women, such as
Tibetan and Mongol herders, who are not used to ge1ting involved in public activities. The main
issues raised by women included: i) lack of employment opportunities for cash income; ii) lack of
working capital for small scale household based planting, breeding and processing activities; iii)
lack of access to adequate women's health care; and iv) restricted entry of girls into schools. The
proposed project has been designed to accommodate these concerns. Specifically designed
programs and activities include: i) women's' education (literacy and technical skills); ii)
improved health care (provision of midwives and training in women's health issues); iii)
emphasis on attracting girls to schools; iv) provision of special loans for women for cash-
generating activities (sewing, noodle processing, embroidery, knitting, etc.).
Protection of Minority Rights
The SAs analyzed the characteristics of the major ethnic groups in the proposed project areas and
established operational strategies in the project design for the minorities' development along with
project implementation. Although Han people are the majority in most of the project areas,
accounting for 86 percent of the total in the Inner AMongolia project area and 94 percent in the
Gansu project area, it was considered important to, integrate minority nationality concerns in
project design and implementation in order to ensure that the minority nationalities receive
culturally compatible economic and social benefits from the development intervention. InInner
Mongolia, minority nationalities account for about 14 percent of the total population in the
project areas, (about 90 percent of them Mongols). The SA analyzed in detail the Mongol social
organization, economic foundation, production patterns, household livelihoods, education,
customs and religious beliefs. Consultations with herders and farmers suggested that household
development models based on mixed farming, and animal husbandry and grassland rehabilitation
particularly designed for minority herders should be piloted. In Gansu, the percentage of minority
nationalities in the project areas is comparatively lower (5.5 percent), predominantly Hui
nationality in Zhangjiachuan County. Nonetheless, the county PMO in Gansu selected six typical
villages from three townships in the county to make detailed village investigation and villager
consultation, so as to design appropriate sub-projects to be undertaken compatibly within the Hui
socio-cultural context. In Qinghai, the SA conducted one village case study in each of the six
'move-out' counties to develop model settlement villages. This was done in close cooperation
with community leaders and religious elders.



107
F. Specific Issues Related to Qinghai
Qinghai is the only PP where voluntary settlement is proposed. This has focused scrutiny on the
project component. The SA for Qinghai raises the possibility for conflicts between farmers and
herders, and ethnic conflicts in the 'move-in' area as a potential risk. Public disorder was also
raised as a concern based on previous experience with settlers. Additional concerns are: i)
dilution of the Tibetan presence in the 'move-in' area as part of a historical strategy of ethnic
supplanting of minority nationalities; ii) perceived weakening of Tibetan culture as seen in the
claimed replacement of the herding lifestyle with that of farming; iii) claimed difficulty of
ascertaining the "real" desires of the Tibetan herders in the project 'move-in' area regarding these
changes; and iv) the possibility of the use of prison labor in project construction. Careful review
of each of these issues reveals that most of them were thoroughly discussed, researched, and
provided for in project design in general and the Local Beneficiary Participation Plan, the
Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan, and the Resettlement Action Plan specifically.
Special Concerns
Dilution of Tibetan Presence in the 'Move-in' Area. Historically, and particularly in the 20kh
century, there has been significant demographic shifts of the Han population southward and
westward. These past twenty years, moreover, have seen long-distance migration of Chinese from
all nationalities to the coast and other areas of the country in pursuit of better economic lives. In
the Tibet Autonomous Region, and in other minority nationality areas, there has been an influx of
migrants from other parts of the country such as Sichuan Province. This has sparked discussion of
the long-term effects on the ethnic or nationality character of these areas. However, the proposed
project entails no such long distance migratory pattern directly or indirectly. All 57,775 settlers
are migrating within the same province (about 450 km on average).
The area the migrants will leave behind, the 'move-out' area, although populated now by mostly
Han and Hui, holds special significance for Tibetans both home and abroad. The current Dalai
Lama and the former Panchen Lama had their ancestral homes in two of the 'move-out' counties
(Ping'an and Xunhua, respectively). Thus it is perhaps not surprising that although Tibetans in
these counties now comprise close to 9.4 percent of the local population, they are applying to
emigrate at a significantly lower rate than other nationalities, possibly reflecting the spiritual hold
the home counties have on them. To partially compensate for the reduced applicant pool, Tibetan
applications are approved at a rate higher than that of other nationalities (40 percent versus 34
percent), but this still leaves the Tibetan out-migration somewhat lower than their share of the
local population. Such a migratory pattern will leave these six 'move-out' counties slightly more
Tibetan at 9.5 percent (see Table 9-1). Also, various investments and interventions (soil
conservation, cultural and educational programs, and culturally appropriate health care access)
will be made in the 'move-out' counties in order to improve the social and environmental
conditions for the remaining population.



108
Table 9-1: Population by Nationality in 'Move-Out' Area
6 Movi g-out Counties (Before Settlement)
JNEmber                  1 1,333,4841  649,6791124,842       4,969 398,6331 75,101| 78,5791          1,681
%of Total               l               48.7%1  9.4%        0.4%1 29.9%1  5.6%J  5.9%1              0.1%
Selected Settlers
_ Number                 1 57,7751    24,4571  3,466i               20,568   3,853   5,431
_ % of Total               I               42.3%1  6.0%                35.6%    6.7%    9.4%
6 Moving-out Counties (After Settlement)
Number                  1 1,275,7091  625,222 121,376       4,969 378,065  71,248  73,148           1,681
1%of Total           -                   49.0%1  9.5%1       0.4%1 29.6%1  5.6%1  5.7%1              0.1%
The immediate 'move-in' area, currently has no Tibetans at all. The project as currently planned
will thus introduce a Tibetan presence into the area as they will make up nearly 6 percent of the
population. The two 'move-in' townships of Zongjia and Balong which encompass the immediate
project area, yield a pre-project Mongol majority (about 55 percent) for the area's population of
5,736. Among these are 276 Tibetan herders who bring their animals to pasture in the Kunlun
Mountains 120 kilometers south of the project area during the summer and autumn, while
wintering in an area 60 kilometers south of the project area. Given such distances, their pastoral
lifestyle is not anticipated to be substantially affected by the proposed project. After the
settlement is completed, Han and Hui would be the predominant nationalities in the project
townships, followed by smaller numbers of the Tu, Salar, Tibetans, and Mongols. At the county
level, the settlement impact will be much reduced. The percentage of Han will fall from about 53
percent to 48 percent, that of the Tibetans from about 23 percent to 14 percent and that of the
Mongols from about 14 percent to about 7 percent, while the proportional shares of the other
minorities, especially the Hui (from about 7 percent to 22 percent), will increase (see Table 9-2).
Table 9-2: Population by Nationkality in 'Move-In' Area
-POPULATION BEFORE SETTLEMENT 
Qin ghai Provirtce                                  _
Numnber                   4,956,000   2,836,011  1,034,300    83,000  719,6008  6,200  186,800 50,100
% of Total                               657.8%    20.90%      1.7%   14.52%    1.7     3.8%         0.2%
Pro ject Specific Area_
Number                          4,000       1,052    1152      2,763    ,800 75
°%ofTotal                                 26.3%        _      69.1%    4.62%   1
Pro ject Townships                                       _ 
,9 56,736     2,8611 ,000 T   06 83,137  719                              27
_% of Total                                36.8%      4.8%    5497%    3.2.%     .                    0.5%
Dulan County                                             _
Number                         52,669       27,977    11,952  7,401   3,80     4 787     511          241
% of Total                                47.%    22.7%       14.1%    7.22°1    4.2%   5.4          052%
POPULATION AFI`ER SETTLEMENT
Qbinghai Province                                 II                          I       I        I
INumber                      4,956,00t  2,_:8_36,000| 1,034,300|   83,000| 719,600| 86,200| 186,800|  10,100
|% of Total                                57.10io]   2CI.9%r    1.7%1  14.5%|   1.7%l   3.8%l       0.20%
Project Specific Area_                                      EE                l  
INumber                         61,775|    25,5091    3,4661    2,763| 20,7531   3,8531   5,431      -
1% of Total                                41.3u/%1  _  6;.6%  4.5%1  33.6%1   6.2%|   8.8%|
Project Townships                  __                           
INumber                    |    63,511r   26,56       3,7421    3,1371  20,7531   3,853   5,431r         27
|% of Total               ll               41.8%     .9%       4.9%1  32.7%1   6.1%|   8.6%|o         0.0%
Dulan County                                                ll                l       l        l
{Number                   | 110,444|    52,434t   15,418|    7,401| 24,368|  4,640|  5,9421            2411
1   %ofTotal                          |     47.5%     14.0%      6.7%1 22.1%|   4.2%1   5.4%1          0.2%1



109
The question of "dilution" or enhancement of ethnic/nationality presence can be answered in a
number of ways, depending on the scope of the territorial unit considered. Overall, it appears that
the project will not significantly impact China's spatial distribution of nationalities. The numbers
involved are small; totaling the 57,775 migrants plus the 4,000 people in the immediate project
area yields a number which comprises only about 1.2 percent of Qinghai's population of about 5
million.
Significance of Project Areas as of Central Concerns to Tibetans. Of all the Tibetan
autonomous districts or Tibetan-populated districts in China, the three project-affected
prefectures (Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Haidong Administrative District,
and Xining Municipality District) are the least Tibetan. All have small Tibetan population (11
percent, 10 percent, and 4 percent, respectively). In demographic terms, the project-affected
districts are all relatively marginal to the Tibetan presence in China. Geographically, the three
districts are in the northernmost fringe, in terms of distance from the heartland of Tibet.
Administratively, the three project-affected districts are the only districts in Qinghai province not
designated solely Tibetan Autonomous districts; all the other five are Tibetan Autonomous
Prefectures. Furthermore, according to the Alliance for Research in Tibet, they are the only
Tibetan-related areas in all of China not recognized as a Tibetan Autonomous region, prefecture,
or county. Historically, the three project-affected districts have been beyond Tibetan control since
American colonial times.
Loss of Tibetan Pastoralism and Credibility of Reports of Tibetans Welcoming the Project.
The question has been raised as to whether or not the project endangers the Tibetan herding
subsistence life style. Actually, there are no Tibetans at all in the immediate project area and only
276 Tibetans who herd in the general project area. Most herding people in the project area are
Mongols, while most of the Han and Hui in the area are farmers or participate in both herding and
farming activities.
It should be noted that pastoralism as a way of life is already changing; few households are now
completely dependent on herding. A change towards a semi-herding, semi-farming life style has
already begun (as it also has in Inner Mongolia) with some herders building permanent brick and
wood or clay and wood homes. Only Gouli Township in the 'move-in' area is a completely
herding area; all the other five townships are characterized by a mixture of farming and herding.
Special care will be given to ensuring that pastoralists will be able to maintain their preferred
methods of livelihood. For those 352 Mongol herders whose grazing lands are directly impacted
by the project, an exchange of "land for land" will replace overgrazed, degraded pastureland with
newly re-seeded irrigated land. Allocation of land will be undertaken in such a manner as to
enable pastoralists to continue to use this land for herding purposes. For those 2,411 herders
whose traditional grazing areas are affected by the project settlement, three separate grazing
corridors will be set up to enable their herds to pass through the settlement area.
The SA found that the herders, welcome the project, with about 10 percent expressing their
reservations. As most data collection was conducted through interview questionnaires and focus
groups (with researchers helping the mostly illiterate herders to fill in the forms), complete
anonymity of responses was not always possible, thus raising the question of adequate respondent
confidentiality. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the reported welcoming of the project
by the majority of herdsmen is an accurate reflection of their desires and interests mainly because
the herdsmen in the SA report their concern that due to population pressure over the past few
years, the pastureland in the area has been severely degraded and that the area can no longer
support them as it once did. The herdsmen have expressed the need to identify new economic
options, including agricultural ones to bolster their livelihood. Half of the surveyed herders
requested land allocation so as to pursue this possibility. The project's irrigation work is likewise



110
welcomed for providing a reliable water source not only for the herds but also for agriculture as
they pursue their semi-herding, semi-farming lifestyle. The views of Tibetans in the six eastern
'move-out' counties were also solicited and there is no reason to doubt the sincerity of those who
volunteered to 'move-out'. All migrants also have the option of returning to their original homes
during the first two years, without financial or any other penalty, if they so decide.
Possibility of Use of Prison Labor in Project Construction. There are a number of prison farms
in Qinghai. The closest one to the project area is the X(iangride State Prison Farm, located about
48 kilometers north of the area. This irrigated state farm is drawing water from the Xiangride
River, which is also the primary source of irrigation water for the settlement area. The Bank
Team has concluded that the proposed project would not benefit any prison farm directly nor will
any prison farms or affiliated organizations participate in any activities related to the proposed
project. The State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and Development and the
Provincial Government of Qinghai have also confirmed this in writing.
Additional Actions to Reduce Possible Conflicts
The SA conducted in the 'move-in' area determined that the majority of the surveyed existing
population accepts the migrants (29 percent of the herders said that the migrants were "welcome";
62 percent did "not object" to the migrants). Nine percent of the surveyed existing population in
the 'move-in' area expressed their unwillingness to welcome the migrants mainly due to concerns
about public disorder and fears of grassland overgrazing. Previous migrations of settlers into the
area during the 1980s led to cattle thefts, so both local cadre and herders expressed concern about
a reoccurrence of such incidents and asked that better public safety measures be undertaken. The
SAs address the concerns of potential conflicts with the influx of migrants. Another issue
identified in the SA is potential conflicts over water. Many herders expressed their fear that they
would be excluded from adequate water supply or from access to the new irrigation works. They
were anxious to be reassured that the demands for water from the new settlements would not put
them at a disadvantage. Cadres also feared that so many poor people from the mountainous areas
would want to come to the new area that they would not wait for approval and would come
illegally, thus overwhelming the local area and its infrastructure.
Social Stability. A number of possible mitigation strategies were identified in the SA, including
having villagers from the 'move-out' area move as a group to the new village site, thus
maintaining both formal and informal social control mechanisms. At the herders request, local
police sub-stations and people's courts will be set up in the settlement area to ensure overall
public safety and training of new and existing law enforcement officers will be conducted. To
lessen the potential of inter-ethnic conflicts, the two Muslim groups, the Hui and the Salar, would
be settled in adjoining areas, while the culturally similar Tu and Mongols would be located in
similarly contiguous settlements. In addition, the Local Beneficiary Participation Action Plan
promotes active participation in project implementation by the 'move-in' and 'move-out' peopL-
and a series of suggestions made by the local herders were incorporated into the Plan. References
are made to include community and religious elders in the leadership groups to help secure
community-wide buy-in and ensure that the project implementation is compatible with the
cultural preferences of the nationalities concerned. The project design included suggestions made
by local authorities including: i) clear demarcation of the boundary between the proposed project
area and neighboring grazing areas; ii) adoption of measures to protect adjacent grazing lands and
desert vegetation; iii) provision of adequate support to the migrants when they arrive; and iv)
ensuring that the irrigation development is in place prior to migration.
Pilot Program. A pilot program on 300 hectares for 200 households would be undertaken in
advance of full-scale project implementation to test the proposed interventions at the field level
with the participation of project beneficiaries. This would create a demonstration area which



Ill
could be later used as a training site for project participants and provide an opportunity to show
typical types of irrigation layout, village infrastructure, schools, clinics, agricultural (planting of
green manure) and land management practices which would be promoted by the project. The pilot
program would also include participatory evaluation techniques to provide input from a
representative range of parties in the project area. The pilot would also ensure that the minority
needs are fully met. The pilot program would provide an opportunity to develop "lessons learned"
which could be applied to the design and implementation of the full-scale phase of activities
which would start after full evaluation of the pilot program by independent reviewers. It would be
carried out in such a way that it does not interfere with current land use patterns of the herders or
farmers living in the area, nor will it result in loss of their shelter, productive assets, or access to
pastures. Irrigation will be provided through use of ground water and diesel engine driven pumps,
so as to avoid the necessity of developing major irrigation works during the pilot phase.
Expenditures for this activity have been approved for retroactive financing under the project. The
PMO would be responsible for the implementation and supervision of the pilot program.
Monitoring of the Pilot Program. The pilot program is designed to avoid conflicts and enable
adjustments in the project design before the bulk of the migrants arrive. The pilot settlement will
be closely monitored to measure the effectiveness and adoption rates of the various program
components and also to identify emerging issues, if any, in the relationship between migrants and
receiving area population. Full scale settlement would only begin after the pilot program is
completed and evaluated. In addition to the pilot itself, a 5 percent population sample tracking
procedure has been developed for semi-annual progress reports to the PMOs and the Provincial
Leading Group.
Indicators to determine the success of the pilot program are both economic and social. Economic
Indicators include: (i) adaptation rates are high; (ii) incomes and yields increase; (iii) both farmers
and pastoralists continue to earn their livelihoods without hindering the other's effort; and (iv)
villages receive adequate water, electricity, and other infra-structural supports. Social Indicators
would include: (i) the project is carried out in a socioculturally appropriate manner; (ii)
beneficiaries' satisfaction rates are high; (iii) there is not only an absence of conflict but mutual
inter-ethnic respect in religious and other spheres; (iv) villages have access to adequate and
culturally appropriate social services (schools, health care, credit, cultural enrichment); (v) project
beneficiaries from the move-out areas report the selection process ethnically equitable and
efficient; and (vi) local governments and cadre from both the move-out and move-in areas
collaborate to smooth the transition for host area population, migrants, and future migrants. The
pilot program monitoring process will result in a report
G. Institutional Capacity
Project Provinces Capacity for Mitigation of Social Impacts and Protection of Minorit
Rights. The PPs will closely follow the implementation of the SA suggestions and monitor
impact and effectiveness of actions. Especially the pilot program will be closely monitored and
thoroughly evaluated by independent reviewers before full-scale resettling will commence.
The People's Republic of China officially describes itself as a multi-nationality country. Its
constitution delegates protected rights and powers of self-government to its 56 officially
recognized nationalities. Nationwide, the non-Han 8 percent of the population listed as minorities
enjoys special protections and status, including various degrees of administrative self-rule in a
network of autonomous regions, prefectures and counties. Qinghai encompasses such minority
jurisdictions in both the 'move-in' and 'move-out' areas (e.g. Haixi Mongolian and Tibetan
Autonomous Prefecture; Hualong Hui Autonomous County). On the ground, autonomous status
has meant greater legal protection for minority culture and languages and greater representation
of minorities in local cadre/official posts. Such affirmative action policies apply to a wide range



112
of social policies, not least of which is exemption from stringent Chinese family planning
policies.
In Qinghai minority jurisdictions, schools have been established to preserve and promote
minority cultures. The proposed project design includes the establishment of 11 language
minority schools (out of 21 planned primary or K-9 schools) in the 'move-in' area and a number
of education programs in the 'move-out' area. In addition, culturally appropriate health care
facilities are being established both, in the 'move-in' and 'move-out' countries. Furthermore, the
Local Beneficiaries Action Plan has a list of explicit preferential suggestions for women and
minorities, including special credit lines, educational preferences, special training opportunities,
and provisions for continuation of religious and cultural customs.
On the ground, although minority policies have varied significantly over the decades of 20'
century Chinese history, during past two reform decades, autonomous status has meant greater
legal protection for minority culture and languages and greater representation of minorities in
local cadre/official posts. Such affirmative action policies apply to a wide range of social policies,
not least of which is exemption from stringent Chinese family planning policies. Overall, there is
clear and strong evidence that the Chinese commitment to poverty reduction is serious and long
lasting.
H. Grievance Mechanism
Consultation and Grievance Mechanism. Project beneficiaries and project affected people in all
PPs will have access to a consultation and grievance mechanism to address their concerns in
regard to the proposed project. The mechanism and procedures have been described to the project
beneficiaries and stakeholders. It is believed that this wvill be particularly useful in the case of land
acquisition if farmers feel unsatisfied with compensation implementation or if conflicts arise
between farmers and herders. Complaints and grievances can also be raised and reported to the
higher level PMOs, the land management authorities, and the extemal, independent monitoring
groups. Beneficiaries and stakeholders also have riglhts to raise any questions directly to local
government and provincial authorities. The right to make lawsuits has been made explicit to the
farmers and herders. All complaints, both oral and written, will be recorded including resolution
and the time of resolution. External monitoring reports will include a summary of grievances
received, if any, and the manner in which they were resolved.



113
Annex 10: Environmental Aspects
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
A. Overview
Introduction. This annex summarizes the main relevant findings and recommendations of three
province specific environmental impact assessments (EIAs) prepared for the proposed project as
well as results of additional environmental and technical evaluations undertaken as part of project
feasibility assessment, and outlines the World Bank's evaluations of the main, substantive
environmental issues.
Strategic Context. The proposed project supports several of the World Bank's key Country
Assistance Strategy objectives including: targeted poverty alleviation investments, support for
primary education with a particular focus on girls and minority nationalities, support for
environmentally sustainable agricultural and livestock development and enhancing access to basic
services for poor people. Access to health, education and other rural services would also be
improved for the poor households. Although the proposed project will be implemented in three
PPs, this report focuses mainly on proposed developments in Qinghai Province, which will
involve new land reclamation and development in areas not presently utilized for crop production
and, as such, offer the greatest potential for environmental impact. Developments in the other two
PPs are substantially confined to modifications and improvements to existing land uses and
mainly represent intensification rather than major changes in land use.
B. Environmental Review Process
Applicable Environmental Procedures. Consistent with the "Environmental Protection Law"
of the People's Republic of China and Operational Directive (OD) 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment" of the World Bank, each of the three components has been the subject of an
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). The EIAs were prepared by the Environmental
Protection Research Institute of Gansu Province, the Environmental Sciences Institute of Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region, and the Qinghai Institute of Environmental Science. All three
institutes hold the "Environmental Impact Assessment Certification of Class A," issued by the
State Environmental Protection Agency and the scope of the EIAs was substantially in
compliance with that required for the World Bank's environmental Category A, including public
consultation. However, the bulk of the environmental analysis associated with the proposed
project was of an essentially technical nature and designed to ensure that all relevant
environmental considerations were taken into account in project design. The EIA documents
identify the key environmental risks, and mitigation and environmental monitoring measures with
their associated costs, and specify implementation responsibilities. English language translations
of these reports have been placed in the Public Information Center at the World Bank.
Environmental Category. The proposed project was reviewed and placed in World Bank
environmental screening category "B" in accordance with the provisions of Operational Directive
4.01 and taking account of past practice with classification of a large number of similar integrated
agricultural development projects financed by the World Bank in China over the last 10 years.
Review of the scope and proposed activities of the project by Chinese and World Bank
environmental staff indicated that the potential impacts were not unusual or unprecedented in
terms of other large scale rural developments being undertaken in China, whether financed solely
by the Government or co-financed by the World Bank and other donors. These activities
generally have limited risk of adverse effects that could be addressed through design, mitigation



114
and/or monitoring measures5. The land reclamation and improvement activities supported under
the project are of a kind that have been widely and successfully applied in other arid and semi-
arid development projects in both the Project Provinces/Regions and other Provinces/Regions in
central and western China. Previous interventions of this type by the World Bank have included
the Tarim Basin I and II Projects. In addition, the proposed activities would be implemented in a
large number of dispersed sites with most of the anticipated negative environmental impacts
being of local nature. The mitigation measures and rnethods to be utilized are well known and
established in China. It should be noted that during project preparation the overall scale of the
proposed project, particularly the scale of developments in Qinghai Province, was substantially
reduced with an incremental decrease in potential environmental impacts.
Preparation and Review Process. Project preparation has included the participation of a
qualified, experienced international environmental consultant as an integral member of the
interdisciplinary project team used by the World Bank. This specialist participated in the
preparation, pre-appraisal, and appraisal of the project. The work of this individual was
complemented by World Bank environmental staff who reviewed the environmental
documentation prepared for the project. The environmental design of the project represents the
combined work of these different experts. The EIA documents were submitted to Chinese
authorities and the World Bank prior to appraisal and have been reviewed and approved by the
State Environmental Protection Agency of China. They have been made available in the PPs to
government agencies and project affected persons upon request. The EIA work was carried out in
close coordination with the Social Assessments and the preparation of the Voluntary Resettlement
Implementation Plan (VSIP) and the Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the Qinghai
sub-project.
Consultation Process. Public consultation activities were also undertaken as part preparation of
all three EIAs. In Qinghai, these consultations were undertaken in both the 'move out' and 'move
in' areas in conjunction with the social surveys carried out as background to the settlement
program, while in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, specific surveys were carried out to gauge project
awareness and opinions on various aspects including environmental issues. The surveys were
quite large; 1,800 questionnaires were distributed in Qinghai 'move out' areas and 120 in the
'move in' area, 5,000 questionnaires were distributed in Gansu supplemented by face to face
interviews, and 4,650 questionnaires were distributed in Inner Mongolia. In Qinghai,
environmental issues were only mentioned by respondents in the 'move in' area and the main
issue of note was universal concern (i.e. expressed by 100% of respondents) that the new
migrants would cut vegetation and destroy the ecological environment. In Gansu, there was a
high level of awareness of the project and about 80%1/0 of respondents considered that the project
would have beneficial or neutral environmental effects. In Inner Mongolia, there was a high level
of awareness of the proposed project and the great majority (93%) of respondents felt that the
environmental effects of the project would be neutral or beneficial.
Approach to the Analysis. The environmental analyses and related project documents have been
reviewed from two main points of view: i) to determine whether there were any particular
environmental aspects within the proposed project areas which would justify modifications or
adaptations to the proposed development plans to enhance environmental sustainability; and ii) to
define the environmental management and monitoring procedures which should be implemented
as part of the implementation plan. The main environmental risks associated with the project
relate to the fact that the poverty alleviation benefits arise from land use intensification in arid and
semi-arid agro-ecological zones that are intrinsically sensitive from an environmental point of
view. It should be noted that no pesticides are planned to be procured with the proceeds from this
5 The Project includes the construction of the Keri Dam. This dam is a regulating reservoir located in
extremely sparsely vegetated and unutilized desert. As such, the environmental implications of its
construction were determined to be insufficient to justify assigning the Project to a Category A.



115
loan/credit. Although the project is primarily a poverty alleviation project, it also provides some
opportunities to produce environmental benefits through reduced land use pressures particularly
in Qinghai and Gansu and promotion of more environmentally sustainable agricultural practices
in Gansu.
Potential Environmental Risks. More particularly, the main environmental risks include: i)
possible acceleration of desertification; ii) possible agro-chemical pollution due to excessive
application of fertilizers and pesticides; iii) solid waste generation from small rural enterprises
and plastic film used in cropping; and iv) possible impact on wild vegetation and animals due to
direct displacement or indirect effects of proposed land development activities. A review of these
potential impacts and proposed design, mitigation and monitoring measures are described below.
It should be noted that Chinese government agencies and research institutions have established a
substantial track record of environmentally sustainable development of similar areas in other
Provinces/Regions under very similar biophysical and geographical circumstances. The World
Bank is investing in similar, although much larger scale, land development programs in very
similar enviroDments in Gansu Province (Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project) and in Xinjiang Uighur
Autonomous Region (Tarim Basin I and II Projects) and project preparation and implementation
experience in these projects has provided a substantial basis upon which to evaluate the feasibility
of the proposed developments.
C. Project Setting, Development Alternatives and Proposed Interventions
Project Setting. The target population in the three PPs live in fragile agricultural and pastoral
lands. In Qinghai, crop yields are low due to poor soil quality, low rainfall, recurrent drought, and
undeveloped farming techniques. Increasing cultivation and grazing pressures in mountainous
areas are having devastating ecological impacts and there appear to be limited and possibly even
no environmentally sustainable development options available in those areas. In Gansu and Inner
Mongolia crop yields are low largely due to a comparatively harsh agro-ecological environment
which is characterized by poor soils, steep topography, recurrent drought, short growing period,
and significant grassland degradation combined with the lack of access of the targeted poor
population to productivity enhancing technologies and capital for planting higher value crops or
forages. As in Qinghai, this situation is already resulting in severe environmental degradation
and, without intervention; this trend will continue and worsen. However, and in contrast to
Qinghai, there appear to be some options in both Gansu and Inner Mongolia for introducing
productivity enhancing and environmentally sustainable crop and livestock development
packages essentially in situ. There are proven technologies widely and successfully adopted in the
proposed project areas and their further application is basically limited by shortages of investment
funds of the type that the project will provide. The project will not solve all the problems in the
three PPs, but it will make a substantial contribution to alleviating them.
Development Alternatives. All of the participating PPs and Counties suffer from severe poverty:
which is leading to serious environmental problems. In this context, the "no development" option
is not feasible within the government's poverty alleviation or environmental objectives. Within
that context, development options in the participating PPs are severely constrained by
environmental and technical factors. In Qinghai, the resource base of the move out Counties has
been severely depleted due to intense population pressure and the associated unsustainable
cultivation and over grazing that has been necessary for local people to survive. Neither the
Government nor the World Bank has been able to identify agricultural technologies that can
provide a solution given current population pressures and the only feasible altemative is to
provide opportunities for at least some of the population to voluntarily move to other areas which
offer the promise of a more sustainable future.



116
The benefits of this strategy can be extended further by rehabilitating the worst of the vacated
land and treating (e.g. through terracing) the remainder for redistribution amongst those families
remaining so that they too will have a better chance of improving their situation and the condition
of the local environment (as will happen through an existing government program). The situation
in the two other PPs is not quite as severe insofar as there are known strategies for improving the
sustainability of rural development "in situ". In these cases, development options are constrained
by the need to reduce risk. Preference under the project has been given to supporting known
technologies, which have already been shown to be effective and acceptable to farmers. The
menu of possibilities is very limited. To the extent that other development options are being
pursued through the project (e.g. sustainable rangeland management in Inner Mongolia), this is
being done through demonstration/pilot programs which will provide a better opportunity to
evaluate the effectiveness of these approaches and their acceptability.
Given the general development framework, which arose from consideration of the above
constraints, further work was done on consideration of detailed design options. From an
environmental point of view, probably the most significant of this work related to water
management and overall development options for the Xiangride-Balong irrigation development in
Qinghai. A wide range of conjunctive water use options are available and mathematical modeling
was used to evaluate five of these and select an approach which provided an adequate balance
between engineering, environmental and other factors. Monitoring will be undertaken during
project implementation to determine the need, if any, for revision of the proposed development
strategy.
Proposed Intervention Strategy. An important aim of the proposed strategy is to progressively
broaden the focus of the farming systems from exclusively food self-sufficiency, as it is at
present, to one which continues to stress food security but also offers increased opportunities for
generating cash incomes. As productivity and incomes increase, opportunities should be provided
to progressively retire from cultivation steeper land and other areas subject to severe wind
erosion, which are not suitable for sustainable crop production. It is intended that these lands
would be sown to forage legumes and grasses, or protective trees. The consequent improvement
in soil water conservation and progressive reduction of soil erosion (wind, sheet, gully) would,
over time, also contribute towards raising sustainable crop and forage production. A priority
objective of the development packages is to improve the nutrition and productivity of livestock
which are essential, long-standing traditional elements of local farming systems in all three areas
and cannot be ignored in any integrated development approach. Livestock development would
encourage the cut-and-carry feeding of penned ruminant (cattle, sheep, goats) and improved non-
ruminant (pigs, poultry, rabbits) integrated crop/livestock production systems, thereby
progressively reducing or eliminating large and small ruminant grazing on natural pastures, which
is one of the major sources of the land degradation problems being experienced throughout the
PPs.
D. Proposed Project Supported Activities
Agro-ecological and social conditions in each of the three PPs are quite different and, hence, the
details of the proposed investments intended to achieve the above strategic objectives differ
substantially between Provinces although the physical interventions fall within five general
classes as follows:
(i) Land and Household Development (all PP). The investment activities include intensification
of crop production through the use of proven improved and environmentally-friendly
technologies to raise crop yields, introduction ;and/or expansion of cash crop production
(vegetables, tree crops, fruits), conversion of livestock management from free-range to confined-
feeding production systems for sheep, goats, cattle, pigs, rabbits and poultry, improvement in the
quality of farm level technical services through skills upgrading of county, township and village



117
technicians, and support for adaptive research into and on-farm demonstration of improved and
environmentally sound farming systems;
(ii) Irrigation and Land Improvement (all PP). In Qinghai, construction of a new regulating
reservoir and renovation of an existing reservoir plus construction of irrigation and drainage
systems to service approximately 19,000 hectares of land. In Gansu and Inner Mongolia,
construction of dispersed, small scale irrigation works covering a total of 34,050 hectares plus
terracing of 26,500 hectares of sloping land and installation of soil and water conservation works;
(iii) Rural Infrastructure (all PP). Construction of 216 kilometers of Class III and IV rural
roads (i.e. minor access roads) to improve access to 289 remote administrative villages;
construction of drinking water supply facilities to serve 370,000 people in 760 administrative
villages; and extension of electric power lines to 410 administrative villages;
(iv) Rural Enterprise Development (all PP). Provision of credit to underwrite establishment of
small scale, non-state owned, household-based rural enterprises for construction of food and fiber
processing facilities based on appraisal criteria; and
(v) Voluntary Settlement (Qinghai only). Voluntary settlement in a new agricultural
development area for an estimated 57,800 absolute poor currently living in degraded mountainous
areas of eastern Qinghai and 4,000 local herders and farmers living around the settlement area.
E. Common Indirect Environmental Impacts
There are several indirect potential environmental impacts that are common to the various project
activities in all three PPs. These include:
(i) Use of Plastic Mulch. Increased use of plastic mulch is becoming a problem throughout
China, notwithstanding its demonstrated agricultural benefits. In one of the PPs (Gansu) it is
proposed to establish a small plastic recycling plant of a type being promoted throughout the
country. Whether this proves to be financially viable (something which will need to be firmly
established before financing is approved) remains to be seen. Neither Qinghai nor Inner Mongolia
is likely to be able to generate the quantities of plastic that would render such a plant viable and
hence, no such developments have been proposed in these areas. On the other hand, informal,
inter-Provincial plastic recycling has started to develop in China and this may offer an alternative.
In the longer term, the problem is only likely to be dealt with on a national basis through the
promulgation and enforcement of national design standards for plastic film which include, inter
alia, the requirement for film to be degradable following exposure to UV light. Such film is
already available in China although it costs more than conventional film and its use is not
mandatory. In the interim, this form of pollution has to be viewed as an unavoidable aesthetic
impact of the proposed project;
(ii) Small Scale Agro-Enterprise. Some small scale agro-enterprises could generate liquid
wastes containing organic material that are subject to regulation under national water pollution
control laws. This is most substantially an issue with proposed developments in Gansu Province
rather than in Qinghai and Inner Mongolia. In the cases that have tentatively been identified, the
control technologies are well known, simple to design, construct and operate, and subject to
regulatory procedures administered by Provincial and County Environmental Protection Bureaux
(EPBs). Administrative steps will be included in sub-loan processing procedures in all three PPs
to ensure that loans will not be issued without environmental clearances being received from
relevant EPBs; and
(iii) Increased Use of Agricultural Inputs. Increased on-farm productivity will be achieved, at
least in part by increased use of inputs, including fertilizers and pesticides. Regardingfertilizer
usage, there are parts of China, particularly in lake catchments in the highly developed coastal
zones of the country, where nutrient enrichment (eutrophication) problems are being experienced
and research indicates that, while most of the problem is due to emissions of nitrates in human



118
and industrial wastes, some (typically on the order of 20-25 percent of total nitrogen emissions)
is due to non-point emissions from farms. Such problems are not being experienced in central and
western China for the good reason that farmers in these regions tend, for financial reasons, to
significantly under-utilize fertilizer. This is likely to continue to be the case in the project areas.
In addition, the farming practices being promoted under the project are intended, among other
things, to reduce soil loss, conserve water, and increase organic matter retention. All other things
being equal, all of these strategies contribute to reduction in nutrient losses from fields. Regarding
the use of pesticides, World Bank funds will not be used for procurement of such chemicals
although it is likely that farmers engaging in cash crop and orchard production will procure them
using their own funds. The project will rely on continuation of existing pest management
programs by Provincial and County Plant Protection Departments. These include farner
education, a highly organized pest forecasting system that is designed to discourage calendar
spraying, restrictions on the types of chemicals which can be sold and mandatory requirements
for the display of occupational health and safety warnings and recommended application levels
and procedures on containers.
F. Qinghai
Proposed Activities in Qinghai
Activities in Qinghai, unlike the developments in the other two PPs, are based totally on the
development of irrigated agricultural production to accommodate voluntary resettlers. The project
area has an arid to semi-arid climate and crop production is not possible in the absence of
irrigation (either natural or artificial). Activities will involve development of an irrigation system
to service an area of about 19,000 hectares which will be located in six separate development
areas spread over a total area of approximately 250,000 hectares. Thus, the development area
comprises about 8 percent of the "project area" (the geographical area whose boundaries
circumscribe all the individual development areas).
Water Resources Development. Irrigation infrastructure would be developed through two
separate systems servicing five irrigation districts located in close proximity to each other:
(i) Xiangride-Balong Irrigation Sub-District. The first system would be completely new and
will comprise a diversion weir on the Xiangride River, a 28 kilometer conveyance canal leading
to a 23 million cubic meter-regulating reservoi?. A 59 kilometer long canal would connect Keri
Dam to the Balong Irrigation Sub-district (14,700 hectares) and part of the Qingshuihe Irrigation
Sub-district (1,660 hectares). The canals will all traverse and be located within extremely sparsely
vegetated desert land (vegetation cover generally less than 5 percent) and will be concrete lined to
reduce seepage losses; and
(ii) Hatu Irrigation Sub-District. The second system will involve rehabilitation and increasing
the delivery capacity of an existing irrigation system through improvements to an existing intake-
structure, raising the wall height of an existing regulating dam (Hatu Dam) by one meter, and
treating the base of the reservoir to reduce leakage. This system would service a total of about
2,800 hectares in three irrigation sub-districts (Hatu - 760 hectares, Yikegaoli - 740 hectares and
Xiaoxiatan - 1,130 hectares).
Activities will also include financing of installation of appropriate drainage systems and on-farm
irrigation works in all the serviced areas.
6 This is an off-river reservoir of a type often referred to as "turkey's nest dam." That is a reservoir which is surrounded
on three or four sides by constructed walls. Keri Dam will have a front wall height/crest length of 40meters/390 meters
and side wall heights/crest lengths of 21 meters/135 meters and 26 meters/480 meters. The reservoir will inundate
approximately 127 hectares of unused desert land and have an average depth of about 15 meters.



119
Crop Production. Crop production investments in Qinghai would include the initial land
development (clearing, leveling, and cultivation) for crops (starting with green manure planting),
forage and tree planting on 19,200 hectares to which water will be supplied through the irrigation
component. Project funds will be provided to cover investments for the first crops to be sown by
the migrants (seed, fertilizer, plastic mulch, pesticides, etc.), development of seed production and
multiplication areas (679 hectares in total), development of two technical service centers, and
installation of applied research and demonstration plots for farmer training. The main crops to be
grown include grain (wheat and barley), potatoes, rape, beans and vegetables (onions, garlic,
cabbages). Forage crops (vetch, alfalfa, clover, and oats) would be grown as an integral part of
crop rotation as is the widespread practice in arid and semi-arid development projects in China7.
About 15 percent of the land development area will be used for establishment of forested
windbreaks, shelterbelts, fuel wood forests and production forests as is conventional practice in
such developments.
Livestock Development. Forage production will be derived from the areas to be newly irrigated,
with winter forage consisting of ensilaged greenfeed and byproducts, ammoniated straws and
stalks which are widely used in China and supplemented, in some cases, by purchased or home-
produced concentrates such as oilseed cake, wheat bran and barley. Livestock production will be
based entirely on the stall-fed, cut-and-carry feeding system with no utilization of grassland areas.
Production systems will include pig breeding and fattening, sheep and cashmere goat breeding
and fattening and/or household chicken and egg production. The majority of households are
expected to raise only a small number of animals, largely for household consumption but with
one or two surplus animals sold for cash income, although a minority may choose to specialize in
one type of animal production system. Small forage areas would be planted on each farm while
specialized forage production farms (about 2,880 hectares in total) would be designated within
the settlement area. Each household would be allocated land (about 0.256 hectares) including the
forage production farms. Forage would include hardy varieties such as milk vetch, alfalfa, and
wild rye grass. A condition of household-based livestock financing would be a proven self-
sufficiency in forage or grain. Livestock numbers would be based on feed balance calculations.
Grazing on the natural grasslands surrounding the settlement area would be prohibited. Local
Grassland Monitoring Stations supervised by Project Management Offices (PMOs), would spot
check the accuracy of feed balances and compliance with confined feeding.
Low-cost, adobe and plastic cover livestock sheds, ammoniation pits, capital stock purchase,
forage establishment costs would be financed, and for specialized households, one third of the
cost of initial feed purchases. A number of households would specialize in forage processing with
small low-cost straw and chaff cutters.
Rural Roads Development. Construction of 116 kilometers of all-weather, Class IV gravel roads
on a 4x4 kilometer grid would be financed, which would follow branch canals in all irrigation
areas plus 426 kilometers of farm roads. These roads will be no risk of increasing access to areas-
outside the project.
Rural Enterprises. This component will underwrite development of extremely small scale agro-
processing enterprises including; a feed concentrate mill, a flour mill, a fodder chopping mill, a
vegetable oil extraction mill and noodle manufacturing plant.
Rehabilitation of 'Move-Out' Areas. As part of existing land rehabilitation programs in the
"move out" areas, approximately 85 percent of vacated land will be planted to trees and grasses
and retired from cultivation. The remaining 15 percent is of lesser slope and will be terraced and
7Farmers in the arid regions frequently plant a crop such as clover as a green manure crop simultaneously with a grain
crop or, if the season is long enough, as a second crop for forage production or as green manure.



120
shared amongst families remaining in the area to increase per capita farm size and improve the
possibilities for developing more environmentally sustainable farming systems.
Existing Environmental Conditions
The key environmental concern in Qinghai is the potential impact of the land use change to be
promoted in the Xiangriade-Balong areas (hereafter referred to as the Qinghai-project area) of
Dulan County where the resettlers are to be established. As noted above the environmental effects
in the 'move-out' counties will be neutral to beneficial due to reduced pressure from agriculture
and grazing on marginal lands combined with actions to rehabilitate these areas.
Location and Landforms. The Qinghai-project area is located in the southeastern corner of the
Qaidam Basin, which extends diagonally southeast to northwest through the northern half of
Qinghai Province. The mountains bordering the Basin to the northeast, southeast and southwest
reach heights of up to 5,000 meters above sea level (a.s.l.) while the lowest elevations in the
center of the basin are in the order of 2,500 meters a.s.l. The general slope of the Basin is from
southeast to northwest.
The main landforms comprise the denudational mountains and hills which form the boundaries of
the basin (and are also the only location of reliable precipitation), denudational and depositional
gobi on the piedmont plains at the base of the mountains (the lower parts of these are the only
areas where agriculture other than itinerant livestock grazing is possible) followed, in the lower
reaches of the Basin, by sand dunes and salty marshes. Numerous salt lakes including some of the
largest in China dot the lower parts of the Basin. The gobi piedmont areas are subject to on-going
depositional action and reworking as a result of flooding from the rivers that emerge from the
mountains. Closer to the foot of the mountains, they are covered with gravel and vegetation is
virtually non-existent. As distance from the mountains increases the slopes flatten, the surface
materials become finer and the groundwater table is shallower (3-25 meters). These areas offer
agricultural development potential provided that supplementary water can be provided.
Immediately to the north of the Qinghai-project area is located an extensive saline swampy area
or "soak", covering about 35 square kilometers which follows the course of the Qaidam River and
exists due to the intersection of the underlying water table and the ground surface. The water is
saline due to the evaporative concentration of salts dissolved in the groundwater. The ground
surface in this area is braided, due to periodic flood flows in and overflows from the river and
vegetation cover is variable from quite dense in the gullies to non-existent on the ridges. This
type of swampy ecosystem continues intermittently along the course of the Qaidam River system
for some 180 kilometers to the northwest until the r iver terminates in the Huaerxun Lake system,
one of the largest systems of salt lakes in China.
Climate. The Qaidam Basin is totally cut off from maritime air masses and is thus the driest part
of Qinghai and amongst the driest areas in all of China. Average annual rainfall in the
northwestern parts of the Basin is in the order of 20-50 millimeters but this increases
progressively towards the project area reaching 50-100 millimeters immediately west of Balong
and 100-200 millimeters east of Balong. Rainfall in all areas is erratic and unreliable.
Precipitation in the surrounding mountains can be as high as 700 millimeters, much of which falls
as snow. Runoff and infiltration of this precipitation is essentially the sole source of water for all
life within the Basin. Average temperatures are cool (around 4°C) with substantial seasonal
variation (maximum temperatures can reach approximately 330C and the minima can reach 26°C).
There are about 220 frost-free days per year and windspeeds, particularly during March-May, can
be high.



121
Surface Water Resources. The surface water systems comprise a network of ephemeral and
semi-permanent "rivers" which debouch from the mountains forming the southern rim of the
Basin, flow across the sloping piedmont areas and discharge into the trough of the Basin which,
as previously mentioned, flows north of the Qinghai-project area. The overall system is referred
to as the Qaidam family of Rivers. Upstream of the Qinghai-project area, the main stem of the
river is referred to as the Xiangride River which rises outside and to the south of the Qaidam
Basin and then flows through a notch in the southern rim of the Basin about 50 kilometers
southeast of the project area. The Xiangride River flows into a soak to the east of the Qinghai-
project area. Drainage from this soak represents the start of the Qaidam River. The Qaidam River
issues from this area and flows northwest past and to the north of the Balong Irrigation Sub-
District. It is joined by numerous ephemeral tributaries also flowing out of the southern rim of
the Basin, several of which (including the Xianomuhong River, the Hatu River and the Yikegao
River) are already used as irrigation water sources. The Xiangride/Qaidam River system flows
more or less permanently (at least in the vicinity of the Qinghai-project area) due to its upstream
length (some 250 kilometers), and the fact that its headwaters flow through two large lakes with
a combined capacity of about 8 billion cubic meters (Bcm).
These are three sources of water for the project area. Their identities and average yields (in
million cubic meters (Mcm) per year) are:
* Flow in Xiangride River - 3 87 Mcm per year
* Flow in six small rivers flowing into the Balong area - 162 Mcm
* Groundwater in the Balong area - 100 Mcm
Thus total availability is about 650 Mcm per year.
Flora and Fauna. Qinghai in general and the Qaidam Basin in particular, contain a
comparatively low diversity and abundance of both flora and fauna due, in part, to the extremity
of the environment and partly to the limited number of biogeographical units which occur in the
region. The project area supports two main associations of native flora:
(i) Xerophytes and super-xerophytes of the piedmont and gobi areas, predominantly Haloxylon
ammodendron, Ephedra przewalskii, Ceratoides latens, Reauria soongorca, Calligonum
mongolicum, Artemisia desertorum and Populus przewalskii. All are widespread throughout
similar areas in the region; and
(ii) Halophytes (salt tolerant species) which occur in the saline swampy areas to the north of the
project area. Main species include Nitraria spp., Tamarixchinensis, Phragmites communis,
Achnatherum spp.
There are no conservation reserves in or near the area nor was a need for such reserves identified
in the Biodiversity Review of China (WWF, 1996). In addition to the native species, a wide-
variety of introduced tree species and agricultural crop species are found in existing oases
scattered around the area.
Wildlife resources occurring in and adjacent to the Qinghai-project area are moderately diverse,
particularly the bird species, although not abundant due to the exceptionally low productivity of
the natural land systems. The main mammals identified in the area includeProcapra gutturosa,
Lepus oiostolus, and Vulpes corsac. Birds are. more diverse, with some eight species being
identified in the area. Again, the habitat types represented in the area are widely distributed in
central western and central northern Qinghai.



122
Environmental Management Issues
There are two categories of environmental management issues associated with the proposed
development. First, the environment poses certain risks to the success of the proposed
development. Second, the development itself poses certain risks to the local environment. The
first category of risks arises from the extremely harsh nature of the environment in which the
development is to be undertaken. The main issues are:
(i) Wind Erosion. Soils in most of the land to be developed are light textured and have been
wind-blown into hummocks which will require leveling for irrigation development, raising the
risk of increased wind erosion. This is a common problem and the standard safeguards are to
level the land in alternating strips and to cease land development works during the windy
months. These safeguards provide effective short-term control. Longer term protection is
provided through the extensive shelter belts of trees which are planted as soon as irrigation water
becomes available (and before crop production commences) and are an invariable characteristic
of oasis developments throughout China;
(ii) Soil Salinity. Soil investigations in the Balong irrigation area indicate the presence of
saline/sodic soils in some areas which, if incorrectly managed, can threaten crop yields due to
toxicity and/or impeded drainage. The safeguard required is to install necessary drainage, to
ensure that land leveling is undertaken accurately, to over-irrigate during the first years of
development to leach salts out of the surface layers and to closely manage subsequent irrigation
to ensure that the salt front is kept well below the root zone and/or conjunctively use ground and
surface water to control water table depth (as is proposed in parts of both the Balong and the
Qingshuihe irrigation districts). Again, these measures are well known by irrigation and
extension services in China and the project includes provision for further soil surveys as part of
final detailed design of drainage systems and for training and demonstration of correct irrigation
techniques for the new farmers. Nevertheless, this would have to be rated as a potentially
significant risk, particularly in view of the fact that the majority of new migrants will not have
had significant prior irrigation experience. Continuous monitoring of crop yields and soil and
groundwater salinity levels is an essential safeguard for assessing the situation and identifying
the need to take action through supplementary training of farmers and information dissemination.
The risk of soil salinization and sodification is a related but well known risk that will also require
constant monitoring; and
(iii) Water Supplies and Flood Risks. The irrigaition system will be totally dependent on the
availability of water to meet crop demands. The total gross annual irrigation demand is estimated
to be about 300 Mcm, which is less than half the resources available in a 75 % rain year. Water
balance and reservoir operation studies incorporating groundwater simulations were carried out
to establish the adequacy of supplies from the Xiiangride River and the Balong groundwater.
Operational studies carried out for the optimum development option (Keri Dam plus 67 wells)
using continuous flow records covering the period 1962-69, which w.as the driest period during-
the 40 years (1956-96) for which records are available, showed that the regulated flow in the
Xiangride River plus conjunctive use of Balong groundwater satisfied demands in all years
including a surplus for uses downstream of Keri Dam equivalent to 115 Mcm per year. Similar
modeling showed that flows in the Hatu and Qingshuihe Rivers are sufficient to meet projected
demands in 75 percent of rain years, which is consistent with current irrigation standards in
China. In common with all irrigation areas in China, standard operating procedures are invoked
to equitably ration water in drought years. Thus, there is an acceptable reliability of supply. As
will be mentioned further below, the abstraction of water for the project area will come at the
possible expense of water supplies to the saline swampy areas to the north of Balong and this
may have indirect environmental consequences. Regarding flood risks, all rivers flowing out of
the mountains are subject to periodic very high flows. These have been taken into account in
project design with all development areas being provided with flood protection bunds.



123
In conclusion, the environment in which the proposed development is to be undertaken poses
certain well-defined risks that accompany all similar developments in the arid and semi arid zones
of China. The degree to which these risks are managed depends on the effectiveness of the key
environmental monitoring programs that are included in the project design, and the effectiveness
of the training and development programs that are implemented to educate and assist the project
participants. Additional possibilities are provided through adoption of new technologies such as
reduced tillage for improved wind erosion protection and moisture conservation which has been
accepted as feasible in the area.
The second category of environmental issues relates to the possibility that the Qinghai activities
could adversely affect environmental conditions in and around the site. The main risk in this
regard arises from the fact that the project would involve a significant increase in the area of
intensive agricultural development in the project area, which raises the potential for both direct
and indirect environmental effects.
The major form of direct environmental impact having potential significance arises from
conversion of approximately 19,000 hectares of lower piedmont land to irrigated agricultural
land. In its present state, these lands have very limited value as pasture, with only about 1,300
hectares being suitable for low grade (that is, unimproved) pasturage, virtually all of which is
located in areas of shallow groundwater along the northern boundaries of the project area. The
majority of the project development area supports very sparse populations (ground cover is less
than 5 percent) of xerophytic plants that are widely distributed across similar terrain around the
Qaidam Basin. The direct ecological impact of the project, in terms of displacement of existing
natural ecosystems, is thus considered to be insignificant. It should be noted that the proposed
developments will provide certain ecological benefits insofar as floral biodiversity and the
structural complexity of the local ecological system will be substantially increased, albeit
artificially, and there will also be local micro-climatic benefits (moderation of seasonal
temperature variations and increased humidity) which have been well-documented in China.
As previously mentioned, the proposed new regulating reservoir will occupy an area of 128
hectares of piedmont land which is at a slightly higher elevation than the irrigation areas and thus
is more gravelly and sparsely vegetated. This reservoir is also located "off-river" and hence will
not interrupt flow in the Xiangride/Qaidam river system. The environmental consequences of this
development are limited.
There will be direct social impacts on both herder families (63 households or 352 persons in all)
who use pasturage along the northern boundary of the project area as well as other herders (289
households or 2,411 persons) who drive their flocks through the area as they move them between
summer and winter pastures north and south of the project area. Compensation arrangements have
been proposed and, to the extent that these are freely agreeable and acceptable to the affected,
persons, it is difficult to envisage any adverse environmental impact potentials arising.
The main indirect potential environmental impacts arise from the application of approximately
300 Mcm of water to the new irrigation areas, much of which presently flows into the saline
swampy areas north of Balong. Modeling undertaken as part of project design indicated that, in
the long term (5 to 10 years) the average groundwater level in the swampy areas could be reduced
by up to 0.5 meters immediately north of the Balong irrigation district. It should be noted that
groundwater levels in the area fluctuate substantially throughout the year depending on the flow
in the Xiangride/Qaidamu system and their tributaries (the fluctuation is reportedly in the range
0.1 to 0.5 meters). If there is an adverse effect, it is likely to occur on the margins of the area
where vegetation is probably surviving close to the limits of its tolerance and has much less
capacity to accommodate variations in the current pattern of water availability. The likelihood of



124
this happening is conjectural at the present time due to the inherent inaccuracies of groundwater
modeling.
It will be necessary to monitor groundwater levels and vegetation distribution to the north of the
Qinghai-project area to assess the degree to which these effects materialize and determine the
need for any corrective action. It should be noted that the impact is substantially determined by
three factors: i) the balance between the use of surface and groundwater in the Balong irrigation
sub-district; ii) the degree to which groundwater is exploited in the Qinshuihe Irrigation sub-
district (to the west of Balong); and iii) the locations of the groundwater wells. The
surface/groundwater usage balance selected for the preliminary design is intended to strike a
balance between environmental, practical and financial factors. There are other feasible design
and management options which can be adopted if necessary and would either leave groundwater
levels in the swampy areas unchanged or actually increase them in some parts (for example, if no
groundwater pumping was included in the project, water tables throughout the Balong area will
progressively rise, extending the swampy area substantially but destroying the irrigation area).
G. Gansu
Proposed Gansu Activities
The Gansu activities will be implemented in 2,234 villages in 12 counties in southeastern Gansu
Province. All land covered by the sub-project is already being used for agricultural production.
The purpose of sub-project investments is to promote adoption of improved, more
environmentally sustainable agricultural crops and technologies and to add value to agricultural
outputs close to the point of production to increase income retention in the sub-project areas.
Physical interventions include land development, small-scale irrigation, improved crop
production, livestock development, forestry development, rural enterprise development and
provision of rural infrastructure.
Land Development. The Gansu activities will support land terracing over an area of about
21,000 hectares of moderately sloping and presently degraded land.
Small Scale Irrigation. The activities will support installation of micro-irrigation systems,
purchase of sprinkler sets, lining of existing irrigation canals and improved rainwater collection
cisterns. The areas concerned are small and widely dispersed throughout the Gansu counties.
Crop Production. The activities in Gansu will support improved planting offood crops over an
area of about 31,000 hectares. Interventions include provision of plastic mulch for maize in 11
counties and plastic mulch for wheat in four counties, provision of virus-free potato seed in four
counties, promotion of wheat/corn inter-planting in two counties and promotion of high
production broad bean planting in four counties. Activities will also support production of
vegetable cash crops (9,000 hectares), fiber hemp production (1,040 hectares), and introduction
of four species of Chinese medicinal plants and tubers (7,780 hectares). The production of
Chinese medicinal herbs would focus on higher altitude areas of Gansu where poverty is
endemic.
Livestock. Activities will support pig and cattle fattening, sheep production by individual
households to supplement farm crop income, mixed livestock production systems using
remaining natural grassland areas, commercial scale breeding pig and cattle fattening production
operations, soft-shelled turtle production, and fish production. Most feed for ruminant animals
and pig production and turtles and fish production would be obtained from crop byproducts and
manufactured feed sources and have little additional impact on natural grassland ecosystems.
Fodder legumes would be fed directly to livestock or processed into higher quality feeds. By



125
products of maize and broad bean production to be supported under the project will provide
animal feed and ammoniated grain straw is useful as livestock feed. A large amount of surplus
crop byproducts and the technology to improve feed quality are available. Based on 1999 forage
balance determinations the project would have, at full production, a 42 percent forage surplus
over incremental livestock demand.
A total of 11 household livestock production models have been developed to suit different
conditions in different counties. The majority incorporates multiple species (that is, sheep and
cattle or sheep, cattle, pigs, etc.) and most rely totally on crop byproducts and/or prepared feed for
inputs. However, grazing on natural grasslands is planned in three counties in Gansu, representing
a total of 8,050 hectares or 19 percent of the total natural grassland area in these three counties.
Most of these areas are in good to excellent condition due to a rotational grazing system that is
already being followed. However, some other areas have been degraded by use of the land for
cropping. About 2,300 hectares of this land would be rehabilitated under the project by planting
grasses, alfalfas and clovers which will then be used as livestock forage. The sustainability of all
production systems has already been established through preparation of county level feed
balances. Additional livestock and grassland management plans must be prepared by each
participating village as a condition of participation in Gansu activities.
Forestry. The activities will support planting of about 15,500 hectares of forests and perennial
tree crops including apple and pear, prickly ash, walnut, Japanese larch, mulberry, olives and tea.
These species will be planted on areas of steeper land that will be retired from cropping as part of
the Gansu activities.
Rural Enterprise Development. The activities will support investments in a wide range of
enterprise developments that have in common involvement of value-added processing of products
generated from the project areas and addition of this value as close to the point of production as
possible to maximize income retention in the project areas. There are two categories of
investment: i) large scale development (investment greater than US$30,000); and, ii) small
household enterprises. The Provincial Government has identified several candidates within the
first category, including fruit storage, pig breeding farms, basket-making factories, medicinal
plant processing facilities alfalfa processing and carpet weaving factories. With the exception of
the pig breeding farms, none of these are of significant environmental consequence. Nevertheless,
before any are accepted into the project they have to undergo defined technical and financial
assessments including evaluation by Provincial and County level (EPBs) for compliance with any
relevant emission standards and, as required, supervision of commissioning and operation of
pollution control facilities.
Rural Infrastructure. The activities will support construction of 174 kilometers of all weather
gravel roads in 10 counties linking existing villages with county road networks. Three small
bridges will also be constructed. Improved water supplies will be provided to about 260,0OG
people in all participating counties. Supply systems will include springs, existing surface sources
and rainwater runoff.
Existing Environmental Conditions
The 12 participating project counties in Gansu, are all located in the hilly parts of southeastern
Gansu Province with elevation varying from about 550 meters to more than 4,000 meters.
Environmental conditions are extremely variable due, primarily, to topographical variations. The
climate ranges from sub-tropical humid in the southern parts of the project area to temperate
humid in the north. Average annual temperatures range from about 6°C (Minxian County) to 150
C (Wenxian County) and average annual rainfall ranges from about 440 millimeters (Wenxian
County) to 800 millimeters (Kangxian County) although the majority of counties fall in the lower



126
end of the range. Growing seasons range from about-138 days in Qingshui County to 262 days in
Wenxian with the majority experiencing growing seasons less than 160 days.
Five of the participating counties are located in the hills of the Loess Plateau and all but one of
these (Minxian County) suffer from soil erosion which ranges from bad to very severe. Two of
these counties (Xihe and Wudu) are more than 60 percent affected by severe erosion. There is
virtually no natural vegetation left in the project area, most having been long converted to
agricultural use and much of that having been since turned into wasteland through unsustainable
usage. There are two high altitude Nature Reserves in the region (in Wenxian and Wudu
Counties) but they are not located in the project areas.
Environmental Management Issues
The objective of the Gansu activities is primarily to reduce poverty through a variety of measures,
some of which include the promotion of agricultural activities which are more environmentally
sustainable than those currently being followed in the region. There is little doubt that the primary
environmental risk associated with the project's development strategy arises from the proposed
livestock development program. During the project design-phase, considerable work was done to
prepare livestock development models including feed balances to ensure that the feed and fodder
resources necessary to support the proposed livestock production systems will actually be
available. Analyses done so far suggest that the resources arising from project investments alone
are likely to significantly exceed feed demands. Nevertheless, these balances are based on County
level data and provisions have been included in the project design for preparation, review and
clearance of township level balances prior to disburseiments being authorized for those townships
as set out in the project documents. These safeguards were progressively developed through the
project design phase and final environmental clearance depended on the inclusion of final
arrangements as outlined and relevant conditionalities in the proposed legal agreement.
H. Inner Mongolia
Proposed Inner Mongolia Activities
The proposed activities in Inner Mongolia comprise investments in 136 townships within 15
counties/Banners covering a total project region that is about 138,000 square kilometers in area.
Investments will be made in crop production (improved production of existing crops and
introduction of certain new crops), livestock production, tree planting/forestry development,
small-scale irrigation, land terracing/soil conservation, agro-enterprises and rural infrastructure.
Crop Production. The activities will finance improved production of a wide variety of existing
crops, particularly maize and potatoes, which account for about 75 percent of the total area to be
planted, but including also subsidiary crops such as buckwheat, peas and hybrid sunflowers. The
total area over which such developments will be supported is 87,000 hectares spread across all
participating counties/Banners. As in Gansu, all of these areas are already being used for
agricultural production so that the main effect of the project is to intensify an existing land use
rather than to introduce a major change in use. Also as in Gansu, the Inner Mongolia activities
would supply households with the first year's requirements of quality inputs (seeds, plastic
mulch, etc.).
Livestock Component. The project will support development of a wide variety of integrated
household production systems (11 different models are possible), all but one of which are based
on cut-and-carry plus natural pasture grazing approaches. The livestock to be supported under the
different models include sheep, goats, cattle, rabbits, chickens, and pigs and it is estimated that
about 139,000 households will participate in the program.



127
The integrated household pasture and fodder production system to be supported under the project
is referred to as caokulun, a sustainable livestock management system that has been developed to
assist in reversal of the rangeland degradation occurring in Inner Mongolia in recent decades. A
caokulun is one hectare of land protected by a wall and a tree-shrub shelterbelt in which irrigated
fodder and grain crops are produced to benefit two households. Associated with the caokulun is
an area of natural pasture assigned to each household (on a 30-year leasehold basis) on which
household livestock are permitted to graze, and which will fall under the prevailing grassland
management regulations. The livestock feed produced by the caokulun is used to supplement
natural pasture forage obtained by grazing during summer and autumn and to provide a full feed
ration to household livestock during the winter and spring, thus relieving grazing pressure at
critical times to improve ecological condition of natural pasture ecosystems.
The project also includes a component that will demonstrate, on a pilot scale, another improved
integrated farming system. The pilot will be undertaken on an area of about 1,370 hectares of
natural grassland that is presently being over-grazed. It will demonstrate an integrated farming
system comprising mixed crop and livestock farming, utilizing crop by products as the main
source of ruminant forage for cattle and sheep, and recycling animal manure to the croplands.
Finally, it is proposed that approximately 2,000 hectares of degraded grassland be rehabilitated
through planting of improved pastures and reserved for forage harvesting (that is, not for grazing)
while an additional 2,200 hectares will be fenced off for and managed under a regulated grazing
regime. These activities are designed to complement the Inner Mongolian Government's existing
reseeding and grassland rehabilitation programs.
Tree Planting. The activities will support planting of trees or protective bushes on an area of
about 15,000 hectares of severely degraded land. Species to be planted include trees such as larch
and wild apricot.
Small Scale Irrigation. The activities will support development of about 11,500 tube wells/dug
wells to irrigate an area of about 22,000 hectares (that is, about 0.5 hectares/well). Canal lining
would be provided on existing canals servicing an area of about 3,760 hectares. Finally,
rainwater-based harvesting systems would be installed, covering about 3,300 micro-irrigation
systems which are used for supplementary watering of rain fed crops.
Land Terracing/Soil Conservation. An area of 8,500 hectares of presently cultivated land with
slopes less than 15° will be terraced while an additional 5,900 hectares of wasteland and degraded
land along roadways and on ridges will be planted with trees for wind erosion control.
Agro-enterprises. The activities will provide financing for farmers to procure small feed
chopping and threshing machines and small tractor sets. The scheme is voluntary. For the
purposes of project planning it has been assumed that demand for about 200 sets of each might be
realized.
Rural Infrastructure. Forty-five kilometers of existing rural roads will be rehabilitated to Class
III standard. One hundred and eighteen drinking water supply systems will be installed (dug wells
and/or cisterns), and 860 kilometers of low voltage power lines (10 kV and 0.4 kV) will be
installed.



128
Existing Environmental Conditions
The proposed project area is located in the central part of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region,
south of the Mongolian Plateau. It is totally within the Mongolian Steppe biological unit although
over the 1,000 kilometers of project area, four sub-zones are defined based on topographical
factors. The climate throughout the area is semi-arid, with average annual rainfall ranging from
325 millimeters to 390 millimeters, average annual temperatures ranging from 1.20 C to 5.6° C,
and average windspeeds being moderate to high (ranging from 3.2 to 3.8 meters/second). Water
resources (mainly groundwater) in the region are generally adequate although unexploited (it is
estimated that only about 25 percent of the sustainably usable groundwater supply in the area is
presently tapped) and soils are generally well-structured but nutrient deficient (predominantly
brown chestnut soils). The dominant vegetation type is steppe grassland, which accounts for
about 70 percent of the project region and, in many places, has been overgrazed and is degraded.
Crops account for about 12 percent of the area (less than 10 percent of this is irrigated) and
forests for about 9 percent.
The area contains some of the best grasslands in China and includes a wide variety of species
including Stipa spp., Agropyron spp., Festuca spp., and Cleistogenes spp. which often can be
highly productive, producing in excess of 2 tons/hectares of fresh grass when managed properly.
Salt marshes occur in the lower lying parts, depressions without drainage and the dominant
species in these areas are common ones such as Carex spp. and Phragmites spp. Terrestrial
wildlife is generally of limited diversity and abundance and dominated by domesticated species
(sheep, goats, horses, etc.). Native domesticates include the Mongolian Horse and Mongolian
cattle. There are nine Nature Reserves in the region, two of which are State level, making them of
national significance. Only one of these is located in the project region but it is not located in a
participating Banner and will not be directly or indirectly affected by the project.
Environmental Management Issues
The primary environmental management issue in Inner Mongolia is the same as for the proposed
Gansu Province developments; that is, promotion of increased livestock production for poverty
alleviation runs the risk of exacerbating unsustainable use of rangelands. During the project
design-phase, considerable work was done to prepare livestock development models including
feed balances to ensure that the feed and fodder resources necessary to support the proposed
livestock production systems will actually be available. Analyses done so far suggest that the
resources arising from project investments alone are likely to significantly exceed feed demands.
Nevertheless, these balances are based on County level data and provisions have been included in
the project design for preparation, review and clearance of township level balances prior to
disbursements being authorized for those townships. The details of the proposed safeguards are
outlined in the Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan. These safeguards were
progressively developed through the project design phase and final environmental clearance-
depended on the inclusion of final arrangements as outlined and relevant conditionalities in the
proposed legal agreement.



129
I. Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan and Additional Studies
Introduction
The environmental mitigation and monitoring strategy is based on lessons learned from many
years of attempts to apply environmental management criteria to broad-scale rural development
projects not only in China, but throughout the East Asian region. The approach taken also
acknowledges that an integral project objective is the promotion and financing of environmentally
sustainable and/or reduced environmental impact rural production methods and, as such, there is a
commonality of intention between general project management and supervision activities (by all
participants - World Bank and counterparts) intended to guarantee project success, and those
intended to avoid and minimize adverse environmental effects.
In this context, the key criteria that have been followed in development of the project as a whole
and its environmental management strategy have been as follows:
(i) To the maximum extent possible, environmental objectives should be pursued through the
design of the project itself rather than relying unduly on exparte supervisory processes;
(ii) Given the potential associated costs, environmental monitoring and supervisory activities
should be focused on those activities and processes which have the potential to register adverse
environmental impacts that are significant within the environmental and developmental contexts
in which the project is to be carried out. Furthermore, monitoring of the physico/chemical
environment should only be undertaken where meaningful baseline data exist or can be cost-
effectively developed upon which to base interpretation of results;
(iii) The environmentally sustainable development technologies supported under the project
should, to the extent possible, be selected from amongst those technologies that are already being
applied within the project area and are well understood and accepted by project participants. To
the extent that new technologies or modifications to existing technologies are to be promoted, it
should be through research and/or demonstration and/or pilot activities;
(iv) The technological approaches and environmental performance standards required should be
fully consistent with existing government programs and standards; and
(v) As much reliance as possible should be placed on the use of existing government regulatory,
management and control agencies in preference to constructing "shadow" management and
control systems which are unique to the project.
Mitigation Strategies and the Environmental Monitoring Program. An Environmental
Mitigation Strategy is provided as Table 10-1, which sets out the main, potentially adverse
environmental issues, in declining order of significance, that have been identified through a
variety of sources including the provincial project EIAs, supplementary technical reports by
relevant Chinese consultants and World Bank advisers, and field based review of these elements
of the proposed project. It indicates in which PPs the issue arises to a significant degree, the
nature of the mitigation measures incorporated into project design and the assessed need for any
supplementary monitoring and control activities. This is complemented by a Project Monitoring
Program, which is provided in Table 10-2. Each village in the Project area would prepare and
monitor an annual livestock and grassland management plan to ensure acceptable livestock feed
balances and environmentally sustainable use of grassland. In addition, a Dam Safety Panel
would conduct periodic reviews of the adequacy of the design and construction of the project
dams during construction and at the start of operations.



130
Table 10-1: Environmental Mitigation Strategies
,                          ,   ,A,s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .. ::,::          .      ::    .... .. .::
O .                ..~4$4~.                                             .                                 ~NoeA
1. Livestock
1. I Feed Availability               All              1. Adoption of production systems already being used in or near the project area             Yes
2. Development of a variety of production systems to allow participants to choose based on their own
judgement
3. Preparation of County level feed balances to establish that, in principle, the proposed systems are
sustainable
4. Development and agreement of "Five Point Management Plan" (see Note B)
5. Reinforcement of the agreed plan through inclusion of legal condition of the Credit Agreement
1.2 Animal Wastes                    Gansu            1. EPB clearance for larger scale production units                                           Yes
2. Proven design adopted for small scale units
2. Irrigation/Water Resources
2.1 Water Availability               Qinghai          1. Design based on available historic data                                                   Yes
2.2 Downstream Impacts (surface)     Qinghai          No specific mitigations included                                                             Yes
2.3 Downstream Impacts (groundwater)   Qinghai        1. Modeling of project development options                                                   Yes
2. Selection of preferred option which provides a balance between various development/environment
criteria
2.3 Downstream Impacts (ecological)  Qinghai          Proposed Management Plan for the Balong Soak                                                 Yes
2.4 Direct ecological Effects        Qinghai          1. Location of proposed development area                                                     No
2.5 Construction impacts                              1 Project focus on small scale irrigation wnArks                                             Yes
2. Inclusion of standard construction phase environmental safeguards for small scale civil works
3. Rural Enterprises                 All (but Gansu    1. Focus investments on small scale, household developments which generally have little or no  Yes
in particular)   environmental impact potential;
2. Provision of administrative step in ABC loan processing procedures which prevents approval of loans   Yes
for developments which require EPB approval but do not have it.
4. Land Reclamation                  Qinghai          1. Soil surveys to identify saline/sodic lands                                               Yes
2. Reduction in scope of project to reduce areas of saline/sodic lands
3. Specification of leaching and water management procedures to maintain salt front below root zone
based on existing proven procedures
2. Strip leveling of hummocked land to reduce susceptibility to wind erosion
3. Restriction of construction activities during the windy period (see Note C)
4. Inclusion of major shelterbelt planting program in the project for longer term control
5. Crop Production
5.1 Plastic Mulch                    All              No special mitigations other than in Gansu where a plastic recycling plant has been proposed as a  No
possible candidate for financing through the credit scheme
5.2 Agro-chemical usagc              All              I. Bank will not finance procurement of pesticides/herbicides                                Yes



131
2. Programn includes funds for extension which contains standard packages on agro-chemical.
management
3. Program includes provision for adaptive research to optimize input usage and promote manuring
technologies
4. Program includes extensive soil conservation components which have the indirect effect of helping
reduce off-farm, non-point emissions of all sorts
6. Rural Infrastructure
6.1 Roads and Bridges                All               1. Focus on very small scale developments (generally Class III and IV gravel roads)           No
2. Preference to upgrading of existing roads
3. Focus on farm access roads, inter-village roads and connector roads to higher levels within the road
hierarchy so as to avoid risk of increasing access to remote areas
6.2 Water Supply                                       1. Project to finance only very small scale household based systems                           No
2. System designs include basic safeguards for public health (for example, provision of lips on water
supply wells)
6.3 Rural Electricity                                  Project to finance only local distributors                                                    No
7. Forestry
7.1 Development                                        1. Selection of species/techniques which have already been proven in the project areas        No
2. Plantings include economic forests plus fuelwood areas based on quantitative demand estimates to
ensure that participants have an economic stake in protecting tree plantings
7.2 Management                                         1. Participants have a financial stake in the management of economic forests                  Yes
2. Public education (in the case of Qinghai - this is part of the normal extension program delivered to
migrants in desert reclamation areas)
8. Other
8. 1 Impact on Nature Reserves and other  All          1. All project developments specifically excluded from such areas                             No
conservation areas                                     2. Participating consultants requested to confirm that the design guideline was complied with
NOTES:
A.  The monitoring work for which a need is identified in this column is additional work or increases in already proposed programns that is required to provide a satisfactory level of
assessment of actual environmental impacts.
B.  The Five Point Plan which was agreed to as part of project preparation is as follows:
* Natural pasture land use will conform to existing grassland management and monitoring laws and regulations;
* Ruminant livestock feeding will be based foremost on available crop byproducts and forages rather than on grazing natural pasture in order to minimize pressure on fragile
grasslands;
* Project participants who lease crop and/or grasslands will receive long-term (30+ years) land leases under which they will have the rights but also the responsibilities of land
use;
* Livestock densities will be based solely on realistically prepared and annually updated feed balances for green forage, crop byproducts, and feed grains; seasonal highs and lows
in spring and fall; and types of livestock to be raised; and,
* The project village uni! and its local government will be the basic unit to develop, implement and update grass and cropland management plans
C.  These management Xovisions are followed as standard operating procedure in desert reclamation procedures.



132
Table 10-2: Proposed Environmental Monitoring Program
Livestock
Feed Availability             All PPs        1. Check village feed balances                                    PMOs                   On demand            CC
2. Monitor area and status of grassland arcas surrounding a selection of   Assigned     Annual basis         PB
development areas in all PPs                                     organizations
(Note B).__ _ _                                     _ _ _ _
Animal Wastes                 All PPs        1. Review of random sample of ABC loan approvals to ensure that the  Bank                During supervision    BB
necessary EPB clearances were secured
Irrigation/Water Resources
Water Availability            Qinghai        1. Continuation of existing flow monitoring                       Provincial Water       Continuous           CC
2. Continuation of recording of existing bulk water supply deliveries ex-  Resources Bureaus.
Hatu and commencement of such recordings ex-Keri
Downstream Impacts (surface)   Qinghai       Monitor applications of inputs plus periodic monitoring of surface water   County EMS (Note C)  Twice/year    PB
quality in a representative sample of locations upstream, middle and
downstream of swampy area north of Balong
Downstream Impacts            Qinghai        Monitor pumping/application rates in tubewell supplied areas,     Assigned               Annual               PB
(groundwater)                                groundwater levels in tubewells and groundwater levels in monitoring  organizations (Note D)
wells in the swampy area adjacent to Balong.
Downstream Impacts            Qinghai        Review Status of Management Plan for Balong Soak.                 Contracted institution    Annual starting   PB
(ecological)                                 Annual surveys of land cover and wildlife numbers.                                       Year 3
Construction Impacts          All            Random field inspections of civil works                           Bank                   Bi-annual during     BB
____ ____ ___ __   _ ___ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____   __ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ __   i iti l_ ye rsitia l___yea rs__
Rural Enterprises             All (but       Random checking of loan approvals to ensure that no loans were    PMOs/Bank missions   Random                 CC/BB
Gansu in      approved for proposals which lack EPB clearances.
particular)
Land Reclamation              Qinghai        1. Further detailed soil surveys during detailed design           Design institute       As required          PB
2. Sampling and analysis of soil and drainage water salinity/sodicity  Design institute  Monthly             PB
during leaching
3. Monitoring of drainage discharges (quantity and quality) from the  Design institute  Monthly              PB
development areas
4. Supervision of construction procedures to ensure compliance with  Agriculture Bureau  Ad hoc              CC
specifications
5. Inspection of shelterbelt planting program                    Forestry Bureau        Ad hoc               CC
Crop Production
Agro-chemical usage           All             Review of procurement contracts to ensure no pesticides/herbicides are    Bank          As required          BB
financed
Monitoring of progress of extension/training programs            Bank                   As required          BB
Monitoring of adaptive research and soil conservation programs   Bank                   As required          BB
Monitoring input levels in a random sample of plots and comparison  Contracted institution                   PB
with relevant national standard (GB-4285-84)



133
NOTES:
A.  PB = project budget
BB = Bank Budget (i.e. a responsibility to be accepted by the Bank and covered from its internal funds)
CC = cost covered under general project monitoring budget.
B. In Inner Mongolia, this work will be done by the Grasslands Management Bureau (GMB), an institution of the Regional Government, which already has this type of
work within its purview. GMB will, however, require supplementary financing to cover direct costs associated with doing this work. The other two PPs are not as well
equipped in respect of this type of monitoring and it is proposed that this work be done on contract by relevant universities or Institutes.
C.  EMS = Environmental Monitoring Station which is a unit of the Environmental Protection Bureau and usually the only institution at a county level capable of
undertaking water chemistry analyses.
D.  The groundwater modeling work was done by Xinjiang Agricultural University, one of the leading groundwater modeling institutions in China and it is not
unreasonable to assume that they may continue to be engaged on this work. However, they would have to apply for appointment on a competitive basis in accordance
with relevant Bank procedures.



134
Costs of the Environmental Monitoring Program. As can be seen in Table 10-2,
supplementary budgets will be required to finance ithe several activities over and above the
project monitoring and reporting activities which are covered in other budget categories. The cost
provisions made to cover these supplementary activities are provided in Table 10-3.
Table 10-3: Estimated Cost for Proposed
Environmental Monitoring Program
- ! MON1TeR1NG  hWI              -                 -'COSTVROVr
Livestock
Monitor area and status of grassland areas              1,200
surrounding a selection of development areas in all
PPs
Irrigation/Water Resources
Monitor applications of inputs plus periodic            400
monitoring of surface water quality in a
representative sample of locations upstream, middle
and downstream of swampy area north of Balong
Monitor pumping/application rates in tubewell           1,200
supplied areas, groundwater levels in tube wells and
groundwater levels in monitoring wells in the
swampy area adjacent to Balong
Annual surveys of land cover and wildlife numbers        300
1. Further detailed soil surveys during detailed        300
design;
2. Sampling and analysis of soil and drainage water     300
salinity/sodicity during leaching;
3. Monitoring of drainage discharges (quantity and      200
quality) from the development areas
TOTAL                                 3,900
The overwhelming majority of these expenditures (Yuan 3,900,000) will take place in Qinghai
Province.
Additional Activities
To increase the contribution to the environmental sustainability of the proposed programs certain
additional studies, development and training activities are proposed, which would require
additional funding as follows:
Management Plan for the Balong Soak. The project already involves quite extensive
monitoring of vegetation cover and groundwater of the Balong Soak to gauge potential impacts.
This interpretation of monitoring results would be based on the assumption that maintenance of
existing groundwater and vegetation is the optimum  outcome, based on the "do no harm"
philosophy. This assumption is not based on a detailed understanding of the dynamics of the
ecosystem which, if better understood, may provide a basis for coordinated management of the
irrigation area and the adjacent swampy areas to the benefit of both. The proposed work would
begin with basic research into ecological relationships, flora and fauna surveys, identification of
pressures on the area other than potentially hydrological issues (the main pressure is believed to
be uncontrolled grazing by itinerant herders) which would lead to development of management
possibilities and options. A consultation process would then be commenced with a view to
achieving some consensus on how utilization practices might be altered, leading to production of
an agreed management plan. The plan could form the basis for bilateral support for
implementation.



135
This type of study would be well within the capacity of one of the leading ecological research
institutes of the Chinese Academy of Sclences and the estimated cost is about Yuan 1.5 million
which would be spent over three to four years.
Pest Management in Minority Areas. There already exists a comprehensive program of
pesticide regulation, education and monitoring carried out through local Plant Protection Bureaux
and Plant Protection Stations. Previous experience suggests, however, that much more could be
done to improve the effectiveness of these programs in general and amongst minority
communities in particular. The proposed activity would underwrite a series of activities to
strengthen existing programs in the project areas through development of training materials,
training of trainers and labeling in local languages. Again, this work could substantially be
undertaken by local experts working with indigenous trainers, possibly with some assistance from
a foreign pesticide management expert as adviser. Estimated cost is in the order of Yuan 1
million.
Training in Regional Land Use Planning. Urban land use planning in China is quite well
developed albeit unimaginative. Regional land use planning for rural areas is almost totally non-
existent and scarcely even exists as a discipline. The proposed program, to be focused in Gansu
(due to the particular suitability of the issues they are facing to being addressed through regional
planning approaches), would involve provision of training, carrying out of a regional planning
case study, development and piloting of public consultation procedures to be carried out as part of
the planning process. This would have to be done by foreign consultants. The estimated cost is in
the order of Yuan 1.5 million
Supervision Needs. A substantial number of the field monitoring tasks required as part
of the environmental monitoring program can be carried out by non-specialist staff
provided that an environmental specialist participates in project launch workshops to
agree with counterparts on formats for periodic progress reports to ensure a clear
accounting of environmental issues. This specialist should probably return at the end of
the second year when, based on previous experience, there should have been sufficient
progress in the field to be able to actually inspect operations performance, particularly on
construction-related issues. Specialist technical advice will also be required during initial
missions to agree with consultants in Qinghai on the location of groundwater monitoring
wells and monitoring/reporting protocols. Thereafter however, it should be possible to
monitor progress in this regard through desk analysis of progress reports. An
environmental specialist should participate in supervision missions at least once each
year.



136
Annex 11: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
As of May 17, 1999
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                    disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                 Purpose                                Cancel-       Un-
IBRD        IDA       lations  disbursed    Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 106
Active Pro ects
CN-PE-3653    1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  CONTAINER TRANSPORT          71.00         0.00     0.00        71.00        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-36953   1999  PRC                         HEALTH IX                    10.00        50.00     0.00        60.00        0.00        0.00
CN-PE-41890   1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  LIAONING URB TRANSP         150.00         0.00     0.00       150.00        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-49665   1999  PRC                         ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV         90.00        30.00     0.00       119.00        3.60         0.00
CN-PE-50036   1999  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY        200.00         0.00     0.00       200.00        9.94        0.00
CN-PE-51856   1999  MINISTRY OF FINANCE         ACCNTG REFORM & DEV          27.40         5.61     0.00        32.96        2.04         0.00
CN-PE-63123   1999  PRC                         YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY         40.00        40.00     0.00        79.16        3.34         0.00
CN-PE-3539    1998  PRC                         SUST COAST RES DEV          100.00         0.00     0.00        96.00         .17         0.10
CN-PE-3566    1998                              BASIC HEALTH                  0.00        85.00     0.00        81.04        -.20        0.00
CN-PE-35698   1998  PRC                         HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.        300.00         0.00     0.00       300.00       12.00           .00
CN-PE-3591    1998  PRC                         STATE FARM2S COMMERCI       150.00         0.00     0.00       102.59     -30.24         0.00
CN-PE-3606    1998  GOC                         ENERGY CONSERVATION          63.00         0.00     0.00        63.00        3.18         0.00
CN-PE-3614     1998  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  GUANGZ. CITY CRT.TRP       200.00         0.00     0.00       192.00        7.12         0.00
CN-PE-3619    1998  MINISTRY OF FINANCE         2ND INLAND WATERWAYS        123.00         0.00     0.00       123.00       20.00         0.00
CN-PE-36414   1998  CHINA                       GUANGXI URBAN ENV.           72.00        20.00     0.00        88.81       -1.03        0.10
CN-PE-36949   1998  PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINAA  NAT.HWY 3-HUBEI             250.00         0.00     0.00       234.96        6.63         0.00
CN-PE-40185   1998  PRC                         SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT         95.00         0.00     0.00        92.00       23.80        0 .00
CN-PE-45788   1998  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA  TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY          230.00         0.00     0.00       230.00       43.54        0.10
CN-PE-46563   1998  PRC                         TARIM BASIN II               90.00        60.00     0.00       140.69        6.80         0.00
CN-PE-46952   1998  PRC                         FOREST. DEV. POOR AR        100.00       100.00     0.00       200.68        9.17       18.34
CN-PE-49700   1998  PRC                         IAIL-2                      300.00         0.00     0.00       280.00        7.30         0.30
CN-PE-51736   1998  GOC                         E. CHINA/JIANGSU PWR        250.00         0.00     0.00       250.00      102.64         0.00
CN-PE-56491   1998  PRC                         HEBEI EARTHQUAKE              0.00        28.40     0.00         5.66      -13.33         O.C0
CN-PE-34081   1997  PRC                         XIAOLANGDI MULTI. II        430.00         0.00     0.00       323.36       92.85         0.00
CN-PE-3590    1997  PRC                         QINBA MTS. POVTY RED         30.00       150.00     0.00       148.20       27.18         0.00'
CN-PE-3635    1997  PRC                         VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ         10.00        20.00     0.00        11.98       -1.22         0.00
CN-PE-3637    1997  PRC                         NATL RUR WATER III            0.00        70.00     0.00        62.02       11.81        0.00
CN-PE-36405   1997  PRC                         WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA        400.00         0.00     0.00       320.09       13.42         0.00
CN-PE-3643    1997  PRC                         XINJIANG HIGHWAYS II        300.00         0.00     0.00       230.72       62.72         0.0C
CN-PE-3650    1997  GOC                         TUOKETUO POWER/INNER        400.00         0.00     0.00       391.00      144.78         3.51
CN-PE-3654     1997  PRC                        HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2        400.00         0.00     0.00       321.24       81.22         0.00
CN-PE-36952   1997  PRC                         BASIC ED. IV                  0.00        85.00     0.00        41.32      -24.85         0.00
CN-PE-38988   1997  PRC                         HEILONGJIANG ADP            120.00         0.00     0.00        93.02       10.71         0.00
CN-PE-44485   1997                              SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO         400.00         0.00     0.00       382.70       35.94         0.00
CN-PE-34618   1996  PRC                         LABOR MARKET DEV.            10.00        20.00     0.00        23.99       22.66         0.00
CN-PE-3507     1996  GOC                        ERTAN HYDRO II              400.00         0.00     0.00        23.48      -21.26         0.00
CN-PE-3563    1996  PRC                         ANIMAL FEED                 150.00         0.00     0.00       138.78      113.97       22.13
CN-PE-3569    1996  P.R.C.                      SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG HI        260.00         0.00     7.75       106.81       32.91        23.21
CN-PE-3589    1996  PRC                         DISEASE PREVENTION            0.00       100.00     0.00        68.97       59.63         0.00
CN-PE-3594    1996  PRC                         GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR          60.00        90.00     0.00       125.49       27.79         1.00
CN-PE-3599    1996  YUNNAN PROV. GOV.           YUNNAN ENVIRONMENT          125.00        25.00     0.00       139.11       20.95         0.00
CN-PE-3602    1996  PRC                         HUBEI URBAN ENV. PRO        125.00        25.00     0.00       123.98       78.98         0.00
CN-PE-3638    1996  PRC                         SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.         80.00        20.00     0.00        73.11       22.34         0.00
CN-PE-3646    1996  PRC                         CHONGQING IND POL CT        170.00         0.00    77.99        91.22      106.20         0.00
CN-PE-3648    1996  SHANGHAI MUN. GOVT          SECOND SHANGHAI SEWE        250.00         0.00     0.00       148.15       72.54         0.00
CN-PE-3649    1996  CHINA                      SANXI POVERTY ALLEV           0.00       100.00     0.00        34.51       -5.88         0.00
CN-PE-3652    1996  PRC                         2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY        210.00         0.00     0.00       139.29       56-.&6a       0.00
CN-PE-36950   1996  PRC                         BASIC ED. POOR III            0.00       100.00     0.00         9.05      -21.13         0.00
CN-PE-40513   1996  PRC                         2ND HENAN PROV HWY          210.00         0.00     0.00       175.14       55.81         0.00
CN-PE-3493    1995  PRC                         INLAND WATERWAYS            420.00         0.00     0.00       270.62      -10.79         0.00
CN-PE-3571    1995  PRC                         RAILWAYS VII                420.00         0.00    29.00       344.67      209.66         1.51
CN-PE-3585    1995  GOC                         SHENYANG IND. REFORM        175.00         0.00     0.00        97.54       52.68         0.00
CN-PE-3596    1995  PRC                         YANGTZE BASIN WATER         lD0.00       110.00     0.00        27.75      -16.90         0.00
CN-PE-3598    1995                              LIAONING ENVIRONMENT        110.00         0.00     0.00        64.96       54.86         0.00
CN-PE-3600    1995  PRC                         TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME        230.00         0.00     0.00       123.15       45.73         0.C0
CN-PE-3603    1995  PRC                         ENT. HOUSING SOC. SE        275.00        75.00    20.00       196.98      156.61         9.26
CN-PE-36041   1995  MOF                         FISCAL & TAX REF. &          50.00        25.00     0.00        66.29       41.78         0.00
CN-PE-3612    1995  PRC                         XINJIANG HIGHWAY I          150.00         0.00     0.00        41.95       33.63         0.00
CN-PE-3634     1995  PRC                        MATERNAL CHILD HEALT          0.00        90.00     0.00        18.40        9.92         0.00
CN-PE-3636    1995  PRC                         BASIC EDUC IN POOR &          0.00       100.00     0.00         3.38        -.63         0.00
CN-PE-3639    1995  PRC                         SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC         95.00       200.00     0.00       135.27       28.38         0.00
CN-PE-3642    1995                              ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT         400.00         0.00      0.00      129.95      -44.08         0.00
CN-PE-3647     1995  PRC                        ECONOMIC LAW REFORM           0.00        10.00     0.00         5.51        5.72         0.00
CN-PE-36947   1995  GOC                         SICHUAN TRANSMISSION        270.00         0.00      0.00      132.50      120.94        84.43



137
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                      disbursements a/
Project ID    Year              Borrower                  Purpose                                 Cancel-      Un-
IBRD        IDA       lations   disbursed    Orig    Frm Rev'd
CN-PE-37156   1995  PRC                          IODINE DEF. DISORDER          7.00        20.00      7.00         1.77       11.44         -.32
CN-PE-3502    1994  MOH                          RUR HEALTH MANPOWER           0.00       110.00      0.00        27.28       21.76         0.00
CN-PE-3504     1994  PRC                         HEBEI/HENAN NATIONAL        380.00         0.00      0.00        39.36       11.01         0.00
CN-PE-3540     1994  PRC                         LOESS PLATEAU                 0.00       150.00      0.00        27.92      -21.54         0.00
CN-PE-3557     1994  PRC                         FOREST RESOURCE DEV           0.00       200.00      0.00        40.42       14.68      -30.70
CN-PE-3562     1994  PRC                         XIAOLANGDI                  460.00         0.00      0.00          .48         .48         0.00
MULTI PURPOSE
CN-PE-3586    1994  PRC                          SHANGHAI ENVIRONMENT        160.00         0.00      0.00        58.50       53.61         0.00
CN-PE-3593     1994  PRC                         SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP            0.00       205.00      0.00        24.64      -11.85         0.00
CN-PE-3595     1994  PRC                         RED SOILS II DEVELOP          0.00       150.00      0.00        40.31       17.62         0.00
CN-PE-3609    1994  GOC                          SICHUAN GAS DEV 8           255.00         0.00      0.00       121.72       72.23         0.00
CONSERVATION
CN-PE-3622     1994  SEANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVT     SHANGHAI MTP II             150.00         0.00      0.00         7.36        7.37         0.00
CN-PE-3626    1994  GOC                          FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY         140.00         0.00      0.00        58.63       39.29        11.14
CN-PE-3633    1994  GOVERNMENT OF PRC            TELECOMMUNICATIONS          250.00         0.00    30.00         14.55       44.55     _- -3.05
CN-PE-3641    1994  PRC                          YANGZHOU THERMAL POW        350.00         0.00      0.00        73.39       58.82         0.00
CN-PE-3644     1994  PRC                         XIAOLANGDI                    0.00       110.00      0.00        25.53       10.12         0.00
RESETTLEMENT
CN-PE-3473    1993  P.R.C.                       ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES          0.00       110.00      0.00        19.77       19.19         0.00
CN-PE-3512     1993  GOVT OF PEOPLES REP. OF C   SHANGHAI PORT REST.         150.00          0.00    25.74         3.88       29.27         3.20
CN-PE-3518     1993  PRC                         GUANGDONG PROV.             240.00          0.00     0.00         2.08         .06         0.00
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3533     1993                              TIANJIN IND. II             150.00          0.00    40.35        13.59       44.93         9.60
CN-PE-3559     1993  PRC                         AGRIC. SUPPORT SERVI          0.00       115.00      0.00        10.40       -1.16         0.00
CN-PE-3561     1993  PRC                         SICHUAN ADP                   0.00       147.00      0.00         5.48        0.00         0.00
CN-PE-3567     1993  PRC                         EFFECTIVE TEACHING S          0.00       100.00      0.00         6.25        4.64         4.70
CN-PE-3570     1993  PRC                         RAILWAY VI                  420.00          0.00     0.00        93.77       93.12         0.00
CN-PE-3580     1993  PRC                         SO.JIANGSU ENVIRON.         250.00          0.00     0.00         4.15         .48         0.00
PROTECT.
CN-PE-3581     1993  PRC                         HENAN PROV.                 120.00          0.00     0.00         8.92        8.93         0.00
TRANSPORT
CN-PE-3592     1993  PRC                         REF. INST'L.& PREINV          0.00        50.00      0.00        18.45       18.48         0.00
CN-PE-3597     1993  PRC                         TAIHU BASIN FLOOD CO        100.00       100.00      0.00        47.43       43.08         0.00
CN-PE-3616    1993  PRC                          TIANHUANGPING HYDRO         300.00          0.00     0.00        65.95       50.41         0.00
CN-PE-3623     1993  PRC                         FINANCIAL SECTOR T.A          0.00        60.00      0.00        18.53       16.33         0.00
CN-PE-3627     1993  PRC                         GRAIN DISTRIBUTION P        325.00       165.00      0.00       316.84      314.96        94.30
CN-PE-3632     1993  ROC                         ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS          0.00        50.00      0.00        10.70       11.06          .22
CN-PE-3503     1992                              ZOUXIAN THERMAL POWE        310.00          0.00     0.00         7.63        7.64         0.00
CN-PE-3534     1992  PRC                         ZHEJIANG PROV TRANSP        220.00          0.00     0.00        19.91       19.92        14.52
CN-PE-3564    1992  BEIJING MUNICIPALITY         BEIJING ENVIRONMENT          45.00        80.00      0.00        25.28       20.02        12.22
CN-PE-3565    1992                               SHANGHAI METRO TRANS          0.00         60.00     1.69         1.32        -.08         0.00
CN-PE-3568    1992  R.O.C.                       TIANJIN URB DEV & EN          0.00       100.00      0.00        15.49       12.42        -5.32
CN-PE-3624     1992  MIN. OF PUBL.HEALTH         INFECTIOUS DISEASES           0.00       129.60      0.00        31.45       26.83        26.79
Total                                                                      14,878.40   4,045.61   239.52   9,907.33   3,050.80            299.73
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):               8,723.74           12,531.17           21,254.91
of which has been repaid:                  73.75            2,539.74            2,613.49
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              18,610.68            9,624.01           28,234.69
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                :            9,907.33                20.27            9,927.60
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-
Apr-99.



138
China
STATEMENT O]F IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                      IFC
FY Approval         Company            Loan      Equity   Quasi    Partic      Loan   Equi   Quasi    Partic
ty
1987/92/94         China Bicycles            8.50      3.39    0.00        0.00     8.50   3.39      0.00     0.00
1993               Shenzhen PCCP             3.76       .99    0.00        0.00     3.76    .99      0.00      0.00
1993               Yantai Cement            13.51      1.95    0.00        7.22    13.51   1.95      0.00      7.22
1994               China Walden JV           0.00      6.00    0.00        0.00     0.00   3.53      0.00      0.00
1994               China Walden Mgt          0.00       .01    0.00        0.00     0.00    .01       0.00     0.00
1994               Dalian Glass             20.50      2.40    0.00       40.50    20.50   2.40      0.00    40.-50
1994               Dynamic Fund              0.00    12.35    0.00         0.00     0.00  10.08      0.00      0.00
1994/97            PTPLeshan                 11.20     1.00    0.00       14.00    11.20   1.00      0.00    14.00
1995               Dupont Suzhou            23.36      4.15    0.00       46.80    23.36   4.15       0.00    46.80
1995               Newbridge Inv.            0.00      7.19    0.00        0.00     0.00   3.89       0.00     0.00
1995               Suzhou PVC               22.00      2.48    0.00       22.20    22.00   2.48       0.00    22.20
1996               Beijing Hormel            4.64       .50    0.00        4.95     4.64    .50       0.00     4.95
1996               Jingyang                 40.00      0.00    0.00      100.00    40.00   0.00       0.00   100.00
1996               Nanjing Kumho             15.03     3.81    0.00       42.73    12.66   3.81       0.00    35.98
1996               Tianjin Kumho             11.17     0.00    0.00       33.00     0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00
1996               Weihai Weidongri          3.83      0.00    0.00        0.00     3.83   0.00       0.00     0.00
1997               Ningbo                    0.00      2.00    0.00        0.00     0.00   2.00       0.00     0.00
1997               Orient Finance            13.33     0.00    0.00       16.67    13.33   0.00       0.00    16.67
1997               PTP Hubei                 12.63     0.00    0.00       25.38    10.96   0.00      0.00    22.04
1997               Rabobank PTPC             2.40      0.00    0.00        2.40     0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00
1998               Caltex Ocean             21.00      0.00    0.00       45.00    16.23   0.00      0.00    34.77
1998               Chengxin-IBCA             0.00       .36    0.00        0.00     0.00   0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               Pacific Ports             0.00      3.64    0.00        0.00     0.00   3.64      0.00      0.00
1998               Leshan Scana              6.10      1.35    0.00        0.00     0.00   0.00       0.00     0.00
1998               Rabobank SHFC             2.75      0.00    0.00        2.75     2.25   0.00       0.00     2.25
1998               Zhen Jing                 0.00      2.00    0.00        0.00     0.00   2.00      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               235.71    55.57    0.00       403.60   206.73   45.82      0.00   347.38
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan       Equity    Quas     Partic
1998        CHENGDU CHEMICAL                7.40        3.20    0.00       8.60
1997        CHINEFARGE                      12.80       0.00    0.00      20.00
1998        EURECA                          0.00        3.00    0.00       0.00
1998        JLANGSU COLINE                  6.50        0.00    0.00       0.00
1997        NISSAN/DONGFENG                20.20        0.00    0.00      27.00
1998        ORIENT FIN A INC                3.33        0.00    0.00       0.00
1997        PTP HOLDINGS                    0.00        1.50    0.00       0.00
1998        SHANGHAI KRUPP                 30.00        0.00    0.00      78.44
1997        SMC                             14.00       0.00    0.00      14.00
1996        TIANJIN                         9.10        0.00    0.00       9.10
1998        WUHAN CIG                       0.00        1.50    0.00       0.00
1998        WUHAN PORT                      5.00        0.00    0.00       5.00
1998        XIB                            50.00       20.00    0.00       0.00
1998        ZHEJIANG COLINE                 6.50        0.00    0.00       0.00
1998        ZHEN JING                       4.50        0.00    0.00       0.00
Total Pending Commitment:                  169.33      29.20    0.00     162.14



139
Annex 12: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Asia &   middle-     -          _   ______   _
China    PacIfic  Income       Development diamond*
1997            g;       :t0;;:t;R                                                                                        0
Poculaton. mid-vear (millions)                     1.227.2  1:75f    2.2&3                    Life expectancy
GNP oWer caota (Alias method, US$)                   860        970     1.230
GNP (Aflas mehod. USS bi0cions)                    1.055.4    1.700     2.803
Aore anual arotvh 19922.98
Pooulatiorr (%. l   i  :             0 0000000j00i;:  :; j:0  1.0  1.3    1.2
Laborforc#3(%):  : ;:                :: 0::: i:: 0 :!  1.1      t51      1.5      GNP              |              Gross
: :g; 0: E::LaborE k :; :::gi * force (:                                        per              i              primary
Mest recent estinate latest vear avallable. 199981                                i capRa                      enrollment
Povertv (% ef ocomation below natlb oemeb  py tv linal  7
Urbancooulatiion(%oftotal oooulelfon)                  33        3         42
Life exoectancv at birthfvearsl                        70        69        69
Infant mortality oe 1.000 live blrthsl                 32        37        36
Child malnutrition 1% of chidte under-5$)              18        20        17               Access to safe water
Acceisslosafe water (% oftbool )                      90        77:   78
illiteraev-% of DoCulatiRnae15+1         :::   :       19        is      I8
Gross oninmarv enrgilment (%of school-ace Doovrlitoni  120      118       114             China
Male:                                              121        120       116             Lower-middle-income group
iFe,nale                                 ; 00;        t120    119       114
KEY;ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS 
::; :: 497?    1874 lii t1997  1998
Economic ratios
GDP IUSS billons)                          172.3   268.2      902.0    956.1
Gross domestic investment/GDP               28.5    38.1       38.2      39.0                    Trade
Exiodts of ooods and serviceslGDP            4.8     13.6      23.0      21.7                    T
Gross dornestic savinos/GDP                 29,0     36.2      42,7      43.6                       T
Gross national savinalGDP                   29.0     36.2      39,4      41.7 
Current account balance/GDP                  0.3      0.1       2.9       2.7     Domesfic                     ntt
Interest Davments/GDP                          ..     0,4       0.6       0.7:      ains                       nvestment
Total debt/GDP                                1. t3.2           16.3     18,7     Savings
Total debt servce/exDorts                     ..      9.6       aE        9.9
Present value bf debtlGDP I.                            ..     14.9
Present value of deWexoorts                   ..        .      863.9..
Indebtedness
19778   t98898 71997          198   1999.3
(averace annual ormffwt
GDP:                                9.8     10.3    .$8         7.8       7,0              China
GNP mo caotta                       8.5      8.8      74        6.5       6.1              Lower-middlc-income group
Exoorts of coods and services      18.4    14,6    23.1         4.6   :  4.2:
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977    1987       1997      1998     Growth rates of output and investment (%)
t% of GDP)
Aariculture                                 29.4    26.8        18.7     17.6        T
Industrv                                    47.1     43.9      49.2      49.3     2
Manufacturina                             31.1     34.4       37.3      37.0                     _
Services                                    23.4    29.3       32.1      33.1       T
Private consumotion                         63.4    51.3       45.7      43.7            93   94   95   96   97   98
General oavemment consumotion                7.5     12.5      11.6      12.8               -    GDI    -GDP
lmoortsofooodsandservices                    4.2     13.5      18.5      17.1
1977-87  1988-98      1997     1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(averaae annual arowth)
Aoriculture                                  6.4      4.4       3.5       3.5   40
lndustrv                                    10.9    14.1       10.8       8.8    30
Manufacturino                              11.4    13.4        9.9       7.8 ,0A
Services                                    12.7      8.6       8.3       8.5
10 
Private consumrotion                         9.7      8.6       6.2       5.1
General oovemment consumotion                9.0      9.9       8.2       7.8     o
Gross domestic investment                   10.7     11.7       5.6      10.0            93   94   95   96   97   98
lmDorts of aoods and services               19.2    12.5       12.7       1.5             -     Exports   -*Imports
Gross national Droduct                      10.0     10.0       8.5       7.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was oroduced from the Develooment Economics central database.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missina.
the diamond will be incomolete.



140
China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation(%)
Domestic prices 
(% change)                                                                         30T
Consumer prices                                ..     7.3        7.9     -0.8      2
lmplicitGDP deflator                          1.6     5.1        1.2     -1.8
Government finance                                                                |       _      _      _      _    _
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       93   94   95
Current revenue                                ..    21.5       12.0     13.1    -101 
Current budget balance                         ..     4.2        0.6     -2.2             -     GDP deflator    o  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -2.1       -1.5     -4.0
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  39,437   182670   183,610        000
Food                                         ..   4,781    11,054      9,960
Fuel                                         ..   4,544      6,987     2,914     15000                    ML-
Manufactures                                  ..  26,206   158,767  161,935
Total imports (cif)                            ..  43,216   142,361   140,226     100o000
Food                                         .. 3,055        6,308     6,119     5,D
Fuel and energy                                     539    10,306      9,275
Capital goods                                 ..  21,110    57,930    58,515 o
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      75        95        91
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      75        89        87                  flExports    HImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      99       107       105
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987       1997      1998    rCurrent account balance to GOP ratio%)
Exports of goods and services              8,550   39,120   207,253  207,140       4
Imports of goods and services              8,148   38,880   166,755  163,266        {
Resource balance                             402      240    40,498    43,874      2 r
Net income                                    82    -164   -15,900   -19,842       o            E. r               iI
Net current transfers                          0      249      1,832    2,163
8 2           9469  96   97   98
Current account balance                      484      325    26,430   26,195    I2
Financing items (net)                       -390    4,468      9,427  -22 662
Changes in net reserves                      -94   -4,783   -35,857    -3,533    -4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..      ..  143,363
Conversion rate (DEC, /ocaV/US$)              1.9      4.5       8.3      8.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1996     1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           ..  35,340   128,817   146,697
IBRD                                         ..   1,427     7,616    8,239
IDA                                          ..   1,330      7,579    7,830                       A: 8,239
o G 31,494           B: 7,B30   
Total debt service                             ..   3,852    15,756    18,445                                 D: 2,904
IBRD                                         ..    208        840       858
IDA                                                  12        73        81                                   E 20,782
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                     209       249       228
Official creditors                           ..    626       4,401    4,315
Prvate creditors                             ..   5,462      6,454    8,134
Foreign direct investment                    ..   2,314    40,180    44,236
Portfolio equity                             ..       0      3,466    8,457                   F: 75,478
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..   1,306      1,900    2,425      A - IBRO                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                ..    702       2,097    2,275      B- IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         ..      97       364       377      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net fows                                     ..    605       1,734    1,898
Interest payments                            ..    124        549       562
Nettransfers                                 ..    482       1,185    1,335
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                      4/27/99



IBRD 29993
CHINA 
WESTERN POVERTY
REDUCTION PROJECT
QINGHAI PROVINCE
QILAN
MOVE OLT AREASMAGAC
MOVE IN AREAS                                                                                                                  DLNH
PROVINCE ROADS                                                                                                                                      ANN
NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                                                                                      4S./ T51           I     L
(@  PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                      ACCH
NATIONAL CAPITAL
COUNTY SXAN) BOUNDARIES                                                              -14
PREFECTURE BOUJNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                    I7
PROVINCE EOUNDARIES
PRO,JECI COUN,rIES:                                                                                                                      M(A~SXiNN                                    ANHLT
DATONG                                                                                                                                                                       -IAOIOI 
HNOVJN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~IN
PEDEALIONG   ,\ 
MON NOlAN~~ 
DULA
8~~, ~  --"<" A"'-"---                         0   0 D~~~.ig~~ UO,~T?MW~~ddO~0Z            XlA/TI
'-I'PP0PI'll
FEDERATION~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'IO



IBRD 29994
,__  96,                I.- 98t                   0°                    102-                     104°                     106                       1      410
; Pt v _ _ _ S - , - _  _- -MONGOLIA                                                                                           -
N                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~CHINA
vs               K                                                        -*-*% %._ o %,--'j ~5 WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
425                                    <                                                                                                             GANSU PROVINCE
o.o7Jf :  (Ad5iood          f                                                                                                    PROJECT COUNTIES                 PROJ(CT COUl,I ES:
A  NJ A?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  bodes                                                                                                              t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HANC;. ACHUAN
,4v \  a.  .                                                                                        PROVINCE ROADS                        OIN AN
-P.                         - >    V '    .l t,,  ,s,_NATIONAL ROADS   OANU
:tt  tLL)ttl:&                     ~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITAL            WUSrIAN
COUNTY (XIANI BOUNDARIES             LIN XIAJ\
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                'INE
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                   AOIA
/   DUNI-IIJAhGICJ     ,                                YuGU\       ..  .      I ox.: ;,.   . .                                                   --   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES              WONXSIAN
DANGOLANC
%~~~,                                                                   ,.LNS '                                               /t>95 
AKESAI                            USUBID.   Lrx                                     9 N vL                   &                 MBINQIN                                      5  ,                          t3 
__ 4 A,,,9' t .oy~      <                        3            tNLTCANG ,
I  I55  105  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN  ,1C
--    Hv   ^>?   3,  ...  '\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C     W , G    .  ,, l. ,. .. .... ...... ,, , 0 ; 
_3D0MSTORO tL10    130                                                                         ^ t  ,{          \!          JL#INAt,                  To Trochur,T.                                             110'
Thobcodzi,d o,6iltlnnt A6efornol:Ms¢-  X005. .o.oE,.. tloo
RUSSIAN I              I                                B"P.b,;:..!rb a                                                            U.SY/U2fOhG                            3 YUAN XIFLNC' SING
, ,._   FERDUEsRATION        '         <         A I     ~  ?a+     
0  sto    TOO  ?50g                            6
MONOORA          f 2N<'f-">gh                X k                                          <                  t\X-'    Zz>*ai   ;0m                                                                                      ,_
= 1P.D R js' . . ( S } ~~~~~~t                                                                                                                           HUININt* -                     7 0t12 0vT hengd 0tI8
FEDERATIONOOD          "on  ,RP
IthI
I>   'so~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G
* NorioroICo  IJ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XJf,~A,NI                                                                               UA$4. i.
04~~~~~~~-6                                                                 NV~~lu H
.5DB      5$                                            P1-                                                      0



1W                         08,                       11 2
IBRD 29995
RUSSIAN                                                                                                                                          116'                       120                      12
FEDERATION
hilool
1
MONGOLIA
gel?                                                                          CHINA
WESTERN POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
52'
PROJECT CCUNTfES/BANNERS                                      RUISSIAN
PROVINCE ROADS                                             FEDERATION!i
NATIONAL ROADS
PROVINCE CAPITAL
lv                                                                                              COUNTY (XIAN) BOUNDARIES                                                     CHENRA'Eki RJ
PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                      YAKESH(l
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                   H                                  AP
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'ERHU
PROJEC'f COUNTIES/BANNERS:                                                 s,
DA'FRANMAOMINGAI\           [AIPUSI                                4             AO,:
SIZIWANG                     DUCLUN
CI-IAHAlFR-YCUYlZHC)NG       K ESI- IKETENG
GUYANC                       LINXI
-%                                                                                                                                                                                                  ICE
44'                                                                                             WLJCHUAIII                   SALIN-YOU                                         =F                     You
(,HAHA'FR-YC)UYlHCU         WENGN JTE
rJLOMETERS                                        HUADE,                       KE'ERQ(N-Y0UYlI IONG                                                    WILA
Z                                                                                              SHANGDU
. ...... ghk
i-6&iN tJOLl-
XIWUZHUMUQIN
ABAGA
MONGOLIA                                                            SUNIFIZUO
ERLIANHAOTE                     11
XILiMq
N                         44-
'I K'NG
SUNli-,-
EXNA
gn
VVULA
WUL4TEHOU          ZH
HANGJIN-HOU,-' WUYUAN
ALASHAN-YOU                                                                                                                                                                 T Sb-y.,,g
WULATE-                                                                     9
DEN KO                 CIAN                                                                                                 T. Ji,.I,.,,
AtAiHAN-Zuo          HAN
HA ER YOUYICAN
DQIGSHENGIDAI                                          XINGHE
WUHAI
EN
ETLJOKE       YUIN
T.                                                                                                        40'
UIHE
T. Yli         SHANXI                    NESFO
T 12-                             II&                                 120'                              12.4'
MAY 1999



