Report No. PID6960
Project Name                     China-Western Poverty Reduction Project (@+)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Agriculture, Irrigation & Drainage, Livestock,
Agro-Industry & Marketing, Rural
Infrastructure, Employment, Voluntary
Settlement, Human Resources,
Institutional Development.
Project                          CNPE46564
Borrower(s)                      People's Republic of China
Implementing Agency              Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and
Development of the State Council and
Provincial/Regional Governments of Gansu,
Qinghai and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
Country Contact                  Gansu: Yang Zixing, fax: (0931) 885 3558
Inner Mongolia: Xu Jianxin, fax (0471) 492 9396
Qinghai: Gao Guien, fax (0971) 825 6567
Environment Category             B
Date this PID Prepared           June 1, 1999
Project Appraisal Dates          January-February, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 22, 1999
A. Sector Background
The absolute poor in rural China, comprised disproportionately of minority
nationalities, reside mainly in remote and inaccessible upland areas, where
the endowment of natural resources is poor and population pressures high
(China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, World Bank, 1992).
Government estimates of the incidence of absolute poverty demonstrate a
significant drop, from 270 million people in 1978 to about 60 million people
in 1997. However, China's growth pattern has led to rising income disparities
between the resource poor interior and western regions on the one hand, and
the more affluent and rapidly growing coastal areas on the other (China 2020
- Sharing Rising Incomes, World Bank, 1997). An unfavorable agro-ecological
environment, degraded lands, low precipitation with recurrent droughts,
fragmented and uneconomic land holdings combined with slow human resource and
institutional development, constrain the prospects for increased agricultural
productivity and income in the upland areas.
In 1994, China launched a far-reaching poverty reduction strategy under the
8-7 Plan, which targets 592 designated poverty counties located in
inaccessible mountainous and semi-arid areas in the central and western parts
of China. Its objective is to raise per capita incomes to Yuan 500 (in
constant 1990 prices) for about 80 million poor living in abject poverty,
within seven years. To achieve this objective, the Plan calls for close
collaboration among the state, local governments, communities and charities,
with assistance from external aid agencies, aimed at: i) creating suitable



conditions for agricultural development and promoting related investments in
off-farm income generating activities; ii) improving basic rural
infrastructure such as roads, village electrification and rural water supply;
and iii) investing in basic social services including education and health.
Toward this end, a number of initiatives are being implemented with promising
results, including Bank-assisted targeted rural development projects--
Southwest Poverty Reduction Project (SWPRP) and Qinba Mountains Poverty
Reduction Project (Qinba), voluntary settlement on newly irrigated land
(Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project), redeployment of surplus labor to non-
agricultural activities (labor mobility), etc.
B. Project Development Objective
The objective of the Western Poverty Reduction Project (the Project) is to
reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in remote and inaccessible villages
of Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. The
Project will empower poor households in the selected poor counties to raise
their incomes, through increased grain and livestock production sufficient to
meet the basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases, also generate a
marketable surplus to improve living standards. Establishment of alternative
income generation activities in poor rural areas, improvement of rural
infrastructure and enhanced access to basic social services such as health
and education will also increase the living standards of poor rural
households. The Project's objective fully reflects the expectations and
aspirations of the target population, as reflected in the Social Assessments.
C. Stakeholder Participation and Consultation
To promote stakeholder participation during Project implementation, the
social assessment work facilitated extensive interaction between all
stakeholders and beneficiaries. A wide range of stakeholders were consulted,
from farmers and herders on the ground, community leaders and religious
elders, to administrators at all levels. These consultations were launched at
the stage of project identification with technical inputs from the Bank on
the links between Social Assessments (SA) and participatory approach on one
hand and project design and implementation on the other. Project design at
the village and household level is flexible: farmers and herders are actively
encouraged to select and modify the household development models.
To ensure that the aspirations of the poorest farmers, the primary
beneficiaries, are fully reflected in the Project design, the SA conducted
comprehensive sample surveys in each Project county and prepared case studies
in a number of villages. These surveys included detailed investigations of
the physical resource base, farming, herding, income sources, household
composition, community organization, cultural preferences, and
farmers/herders' strategies for coping with poverty. Special emphasis has
been given to women's participation in the Project design, preparation and
implementation.
D. Project Components
To achieve its development objective, the Project will support:
Land and Household Development. Provision of improved agricultural and
- 2-



livestock technology packages--seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, plastic
mulches, breeding/fattening stock; forestry development; and upgrading
agricultural and livestock support services;
Irrigation and Land Improvement. Construction of a new dam , renovation of an
existing dam and construction of irrigation and drainage systems on 19,200
hectares in Qinghai; and construction of small scale irrigation works on
34,050 hectares, terracing of 26,500 hectares of sloping land and soil and
water conservation works in Gansu and Inner Mongolia;
Rural Infrastructure. Construction of 216 kilometers of Class III and IV
rural roads to provide access to 289 remote administrative villages;
construction of drinking water supply facilities to serve 370,000 people in
760 administrative villages; and extension of electric power lines to 410
administrative villages;
Rural Enterprises. Provision of credit to establish non-state owned and
household-based rural enterprises for construction of food and fiber
processing facilities based on agreed criteria;
Labor Mobility (Gansu). Organized and voluntary placement of about 65,700
surplus rural laborers in off-farm employment in and outside Gansu and
support to Gansu's Labor Bureau to improve management and referral services;
Voluntary Settlement (Qinghai). Voluntary settlement of an estimated 57,800
people living in absolute poverty in degraded mountainous areas of eastern
Qinghai and of 4,000 local herders and farmers living around the settlement
area. Start-up costs of settlement, including grants for transport, housing,
fuel, and initial subsistence expenses, will be financed out of counterpart
funds; rehabilitation of 85 percent and terracing of 15 percent of the land
to be vacated will be financed by the Project counties;
Social Sectors - Education and Health. Construction and upgrading of basic
education and health facilities in Qinghai's 'move-in' and 'move-out'
counties (including minority educational programs and provision of culturally
appropriate health care access); and upgrading services of selected basic
health clinics in Gansu and Inner Mongolia; and
Institutional Building and Project Management. Establishing Project
management offices at provincial, prefecture, and county levels, and township
work stations and village Project implementation groups; launching a pilot
integrated poverty reduction management program in one Banner (county) in
Inner Mongolia to coordinate poverty reduction activities and entities;
implementing these under a single management structure and establishing
systems to monitor and evaluate the impact of the Project on poverty
reduction, voluntary settlement, labor mobility, and environment and to
disseminate the results.
E. Project Costs and Financing Plan
The Project cost estimate, including contingencies, is presented in Table 1.
The front-end fee, estimated at US$0.6 million, will be financed under the
Bank loan. Project financing sources are presented in Table 2.
Table 1 - Estimated Project Costs
Component                                Cost (US$ Million)
Land and Household Development           141.0
Irrigation and Land Improvement          86.3
Rural Infrastructure                     28.7
Rural Enterprises                        13.6
Labor Mobility (Gansu)                   15.7
Voluntary Settlement (Qinghai)           6.5
-3-



Social Sectors                           8.7
Institutional Development and
Project Management                       10.6
Front-End Fee                            0.6
Total                                    311.7
Table 2 - Project Financing Plan
Sources                                  Financing (US$ Million)
Government                               123.7
IBRD                                     60.0
IDA                                      100.0
Beneficiaries                            28.0
Total                                    311.7
F. Project Benefits
The Project, by creating employment and income generating opportunities, will
benefit an estimated 1.7 million people living in absolute poverty (674,000
persons in 167,000 families in Inner Mongolia; 930,000 persons in 197,000
families in Gansu; and 61,800 persons in 13,600 families in Qinghai),
including minority nationalities, residing in 3,700 remote and inaccessible
villages of Qinghai, Gansu and Inner Mongolia. Food grains, cash crops,
fruits, wood, forages, meat and wool constitute the primary Project outputs.
A survey of selected Project counties indicates that an average household
produces adequate food grain supplies for about six months. For the remaining
six months, most households borrow from relatives or better-off neighbors to
supplement the limited welfare ration provided by local governments. In
Qinghai, benefits will accrue to the migrants in the 'move-in' area, the
existing households in the 'move-in' area, and to families who remain behind
in the 'move-out' counties and villages. In the case of the latter, out
migration will reduce population pressures and contribute to arresting
ecological degradation. Steep uplands previously cultivated will be returned
to grass and forest land, thereby reducing soil erosion and increasing water
conservation. Rehabilitation of 85 percent and terracing of 15 percent of the
land to be vacated will be financed by the Project counties. It is
anticipated that many poor households who remain in the 'move-out' villages
will be able to increase their per capita grain production through
cultivating larger areas of the terraced land. County governments will face
less demand on their limited resources for welfare assistance in times of
food shortage. When fully implemented, the Project beneficiaries will meet
basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases, earn cash income from a
marketable surplus and labor mobility.
The Project will also improve the overall education and health status of the
target population by increasing primary school enrollment and enhancing
completion rates, and reducing infant and maternal mortality and morbidity.
Provision of safe rural water will also contribute to reduction of water
borne diseases. Selected rural roads will provide access to social services
and markets and promote investments in rural enterprises.
G. Implementation Arrangements
The Project will utilize existing institutions, strengthening them as
- 4 -



appropriate, to cater to the special conditions in the Project Provinces. A
five-tier implementation arrangement is proposed at the national level, the
provincial level, the prefecture/league/municipal level, the county level,
and at the village level. The three Project Provinces have established
Project monitoring offices (PMO) at all levels. The PMOs, and the line
agencies have signed memoranda of understanding specifying the institutional
support arrangements with specific delivery schedules.
H. Procurement
All Bank procurement will be governed by "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995 revised in January, August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999) and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997 revised September 1997
and January 1999). It is anticipated that procurement will include:
Works. Works worth US$142.5 million will be required for the Project to
support crop and livestock production activities, irrigation and land
improvement works, rural infrastructure construction, rural enterprise
development, social sector facility improvements, and facilities for
institutional development;
Goods. Goods worth about US$122.8 million will be required for the Project.
To the extent practical, contracts for goods will be grouped into bid
packages estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more whenever possible to
attract competition and permit bulk purchasing. All contracts for goods
costing US$250,000 equivalent or more will be awarded under International
Competitive Bidding procedures; and
Consultant Services and Training. Consultant services and training worth
US$8.6 million will be undertaken for the Project.
I. Project Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
The State Statistical Bureau, in collaboration with provincial Statistical
Offices, will be responsible for developing and implementing the poverty
impact monitoring, evaluation and dissemination system. Project progress
monitoring is carried out by the PMOS. The Foreign Capital Project Management
Center of the State Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and
Development will carry out independent supervision of the project. In
addition, separate monitoring and independent review is going to be carried
out for voluntary settlement, labor mobility, and environmental issues.
J. Social Aspects
Social Assessment documents were prepared for the three Project Provinces by
Qinghai Plateau Geography Research Institute, and the Agricultural and Animal
Husbandry Engineering Design Institute of the Agricultural and Animal
Husbandry College, Inner Mongolia. The SAs for Gansu were prepared by local
social scientists coordinated by the Western Poverty Reduction Project Gansu
Project Office. A Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan (VSIP) was
prepared for Qinghai, which includes an Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan
as an annex, prepared in accordance with OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement.
The Project also addresses the provisions of OD 4.20, Indigenous People by
adoption of the VSIP, designed for predominantly minority nationalities in
Qinghai, based on a detailed Social Assessment, and through a project design
which reflects the concerns of minority nationalities in Gansu and Inner
Mongolia. The Social Assessments were carried out in close coordination with
the environmental assessment work, under the supervision of the Bank and in
- 5 -



accordance with Bank practice. The social aspects of this Project are
summarized in a separate document ("Social Aspects") which is included in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as Annex 9, and is also attached to this
Project Information Document as an Annex.
K. Environmental Aspects
The proposed Project was reviewed and placed in World Bank environmental
screening category "B" in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.0,
Environmental Assessment, and taking account of past practice with
classification of a large number of similar integrated agricultural
development projects financed by the World Bank in China over the last 10
years. Consistent with relevant laws and regulations of the People's Republic
of China and Operational Directive (OD) 4.01, Environmental Assessment of the
World Bank, Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) have been prepared for
activities in Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai.
Review of the scope and proposed activities of the Project indicated that the
potential impacts were not unusual or unprecedented in scope. Any limited
adverse effects will be addressed through design, mitigation and/or
monitoring measures. The land reclamation and improvement activities
supported under the Project are of a kind that have been widely and
successfully applied in other arid and semi-arid development projects in the
Project Provinces/Regions and other Provinces/Regions in central and western
China. The mitigation measures and methods to be utilized are well known and
established in China. No pesticides or herbicides will be procured under the
Loan/Credit. In addition, the Project will support a management plan for the
Balong Soak and training in regional land use planning for rural areas. The
environmental aspects of this Project are summarized in a separate document
("Environmental Information Package") available in the Bank's Info Shop.
L. Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Sari Soderstrom
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8726
Fax: (202) 522-1674
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 4, 1999.
- 6 -



Annex
Social Aspects
CHINA: Western Poverty Reduction Project
A. Overview
Introduction. The objective of the proposed Western Poverty Reduction Project
(WPRP) is to alleviate chronic poverty for the absolute poor living in remote
and inaccessible villages of Gansu Province, Qinghai Province and Inner
Mongolia Autonomous Region within the People's Republic of China. The
proposed project is the fourth in a series of World Bank-assisted poverty
reduction projects in China that support the government's Eight-Seven Poverty
Reduction Plan (the 8-7 Plan). In all three of the Participating Provinces
(PPs), project supported interventions would enable poor households to raise
their incomes through increasing grain and livestock production sufficient to
meet their basic food needs and in many cases also generating a marketable
surplus to improve their living standards. This report summarizes the most
relevant findings and recommendations of the three provinces social
assessments' (SA) prepared for the proposed project and outlines the World
Bank's evaluation of the most substantial social issues.
Preparation of Social Assessments. Due to its nature as a targeted assistance
activity, the proposed project required detailed social information for
stakeholder and beneficiary identification, participation strategy and
project design. Social Assessment (SA) documents were prepared for the three
PPs by the Qinghai Plateau Geographic Research Institute, and the
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Engineering Design Institute of the
Agricultural and Animal Husbandry College of Inner Mongolia. The SA documents
for Gansu were prepared by local social scientists, coordinated by the
Western Poverty Reduction Project Gansu Project Office. In addition, a
Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan (VSIP) was prepared for Qinghai
which includes an Involuntary Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as an annex,
prepared in accordance with OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement. The SAs and the
VSIP include Local Beneficiaries Action Plans. The SA documents and the VSIP
were furnished to the Bank prior to appraisal and have been made available in
the PPs to project-affected groups upon request. The SAs were carried out in
close coordination with the environmental assessment work, under supervision
of a World Bank social scientist taking into consideration OD 4.20,
Indigenous People.
Lessons Learned. Since the project encompasses some multi-nationality
districts, particularly in Qinghai, Bank guidelines and experience elsewhere
in China, working in such with ethnically mixed areas were deemed relevant.
The Gansu-Hexi Corridor Project, was reviewed as a useful model for lessons
learned of voluntary resettlement from a degraded and desperately poor
mountain area to a low-lying newly irrigated district with far greater
subsistence and economic potential. Project start-up was not all smooth. One
particular issue which arose was that, although a very thorough and adequate
job of migrant selection and preparation was conducted, more attention could
have been given to foreseeing the physical needs (primarily inadequacy of
water for desalinization) during project start-up. These experiences were
taken into account in the design of the proposed project. Lessons learned
from the Gansu Hexi Corridor Project, have been transferred to the proposed
-7 -



project.
Potential Adverse Impacts. The SAs have identified and analyzed the following
potential adverse impacts of project activities on local society have: i)
possible adverse environmental impacts; ii) land acquisition for road
construction and enterprise establishment; iii) possibly inequitable
distribution of benefits (including to women); and iv) issues related to
ethnic minority rights. These findings are described below. In addition, the
SAs recommended mitigation measures that have been included in project design
and will be monitored during project implementation. Specific issues related
to the voluntary settlement in Qinghai are described separately. The VSIP for
Qinghai covers social, environmental and financial issues, presenting the
rationale for the voluntary settlement, selection criteria for migrants,
procedures for migration, establishment of new sites and development of
social services.
Use of Social Assessments in Design. The results of the SAs, obtained through
beneficiary consultation and stakeholder analysis, were used to ensure that
the project objectives and interventions are appropriate to the targeted
beneficiaries and that the changes proposed in the agricultural, animal
husbandry, and rural infrastructure components and Qinghai's voluntary
settlement component, are acceptable to the affected population. The SAs also
seek to ensure that changes brought about by the project are equitable and
effective for all, irrespective of gender, ethnic, and social differences.
Impacted stakeholders' views, have been analyzed and incorporated into the
project design. Moreover the World Bank will pay great attention during
project supervision to the proper implementation of these recommendations.
B. Social Assessment Preparation Process
Assessment of Methodologies. By and large, social assessments in China are
carried out in a satisfactory manner. The administration of the social
assessment methodologies, and particularly quantitative approaches are
excellent. Qualitative approaches are less well developed, however, and even
when implemented, often compromise respondent confidentiality. This is a
common weakness in assessment techniques carried out in China but are usually
offset in the initial data gathering stage through the use of structured
interviews and focus groups. This is a common practice in poverty related
projects in China that has proven a reliable methodology. This was also the
methodology applied to the Project.
Social Surveys. The methodology of the SAs and their embedded poverty
assessments were highly participatory in the form of interviews, focus groups
and public meetings. In addition, the SA team in Qinghai conducted extensive
socio-economic surveys in both the 'move-out' and 'move-in' areas. In the
'move-in' area, a 5 percent sample survey was conducted including herders,
women, religious leaders, and local cadres. This survey also attempted to
access minority nationality sentiment. Included in the sample were 8.4w of
the area's Mongols, 9.9w of the Tibetans, 6.7T of the Hui, and 2.2w of the
Han. A special survey was conducted for all 63 herder households directly
affected by project land acquisition. Prior to finalization of project
preparation, the SAs and the VSIP (for Qinghai) were discussed with selected
households. Interviews were carried out by minority interviewers, where
appropriate.
-8-



C. Selection and Characteristics of Project Areas
Inner Mongolia. 916 villages/gachas and 136 townships/sumus in 15
counties/banners were selected. All the counties/banners are nationally
designated poverty counties, with over 31 percent poverty incidence. Priority
has been given to townships with large numbers of ethnic minorities. The
average annual per capita income of these poverty counties is Yuan 914, about
57 percent of the provincial average. The annual per capita grain production
in these poverty counties is 467 kg, about 70 percent of the provincial
average. The project's direct beneficiaries are about 674,000 people in
167,100 households with an average per capita income during 1994-96 below
Yuan 580 for farming households and Yuan 950 for herders.
Gansu. 2,234 villages in 185 townships in 12 national poverty counties were
selected as project areas, accounting for 23 percent of the 53 poverty
counties in the province. About 29 percent of the population of these
counties are classified as poverty households, about 1.5 times the provincial
average (19 percent). The average annual per capita income of these poverty
counties is Yuan 750 (in 1998 prices), about 68 percent of the provincial
average. The annual per capita grain production in these poverty counties is
240 kg, about 59 percent of the provincial average. At the village level, the
poverty rate of the project villages is 58 percent, with an average income of
Yuan 506 per year. Direct beneficiaries consist of about 929,600 people in
197,060 households with an average per capita income below Yuan 500.
Qinghai. There are 14 national poverty counties in Qinghai, of which six are
located in the arid and environmentally degraded mountainous area to the east
(Minhe, Xunhua, Hualong, Pingan, Huangyuan, and Datong). These counties have
a total rural population of about 1.33 million people, about 114 people per
square kilometers, over 18 times the average provincial rate. Minority
nationalities account for 51 percent of the total population of these
counties. The average annual per capita income of these poverty counties is
Yuan 755, about 64 percent of the provincial average. The project is
proposing to reclaim 19,200 hectares of wasteland in Xiangride Balong area of
Dulan County, 450 kilometers from the six poverty counties listed above, for
a voluntary settlement of about 57,800 poor from these counties. Dulan County
has a total land area of 5.2 million hectares. The proposed project area is
located in Balong and Zongjia townships, which have a total land area of
1,563,800 hectares. Three subsistence strategies characterize the area: the
nomadic herders (60 percent), the sedentary herders (9 percent), and farmers
(31 percent).
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Provinces. The total population in three
project provinces comprises various ethnic population groups with Han Chinese
in predominance. In Gansu, Han make up 88 percent while the minorities
(largely Hui, Tibetan, Mongol, Kazak, and Yugu) accounts for 12 percent. In
Inner Mongolia, the main groups are Han (79 percent), Mongol (16 percent),
Manchu (2 percent), Hui (1 percent), and other minorities (2 percent
including Dawer, Korean, Ewenke etc.). In Qinghai, the total population is
made up of Han (57 percent), Tibetan (21 percent), Hui (14 percent), Tu (3
percent), Salar (2 percent), Mongol (2 percent) and other minorities (1
percent).
Ethnic Characteristics of Project Areas. The composition of beneficiaries in
project areas varies among project provinces. In Gansu, Hui account for 7
-9-



percent while Han are 93 percent. In Inner Mongolia, about 14 percent of the
beneficiaries are minorities and 86 percent Han. The ethnic composition of
project beneficiaries in Gansu and Inner Mongolia is largely in proportion to
the population composition in the project counties/banners. In Qinghai, the
migrants from the six 'move-out' counties are composed of Han (42 percent),
Tibetan (6 percent), Hui (36 percent), Salar (7 percent), and Tu (9 percent).
The 'move-in' county (Dulan) is comprised of Han (53 percent), Tibetan (23
percent), Mongol (14 percent), Hui (7 percent), and other minorities (3
percent). The project-affected population in 'move-in' townships is Mongol
(69 percent), Han (26 percent), and Hui (5 percent).
D. Stakeholder Analysis and Selection of Beneficiaries.
Selection of Beneficiaries. In Inner Mongolia, only nationally designated
poverty townships with more than 30 percent of poor villages can participate.
Participating villages must have at least half of their households to be a
poverty household. In Gansu project Townships are required to have an average
per capita income below Yuan 630 and per capita grain production below 300
kg. Project villages are required to have an average per capita income below
Yuan 580 and per capita grain production below 300 kg.
The preliminary selection of the 'move-out' population in Qinghai was based
on socio-economic surveys and beneficiary consultations. Designated poverty
townships and villages were selected for resettlement. Household
participation in the program is fully voluntary. The household surveys
indicated that a vast majority (over 90 percent) would like to move. Those
wanting to move stated reasons such as scarcity of arable land, poor soil,
and inability to improve living conditions. Those unwilling to move expressed
strong attachment to their native place, enjoy comparatively better living
conditions, and are afraid of an unknown environment. Households'
participation in the project was elicited and mobilized through radio
broadcasting, bulletins, village meetings, and direct door-to-door
discussions. Interested households have submitted an application expressing
their interest to participate. All together about 170,000 people have
expressed their interest in resettling. A preliminary selection has been made
with an ethnic composition of Han (42 percent), Hui (36 percent), Tibetan (6
percent), Salar (7 percent), and Tu (9 percent). Final selection of
households will be published for public viewing.
Areas participating in the project were selected as follows: townships with
more than 30 percent of population below poverty line; villages with more
than 50 percent of population below poverty line, with a minimum of 40
percent for minority villages included among project villages. The most
important household selection criteria are:
maximum annual per capita net income of Yuan 300 per year and grain
production of 140 kg;
lack of potable water; and
strong aspiration for migration.
E. Project Impact and Mitigation Measures
The SAs identified and analyzed potential adverse social impacts of project
activities on local society including: i) possible adverse environmental
- 10 -



impacts; ii) land acquisition; iii) possibly inequitable distribution of
benefits (including to women); and iv) issues related to ethnic minority
rights. These issues and concerns are elaborated below.
Possible Adverse Environment Impacts
No major concerns regarding environmental issues were identified in the SAs
in Gansu and Inner Mongolia because the bulk of the proposed project
activities are expected to produce positive environmental impacts. In
Qinghai, the main concern identified in the SA is related to the fragile
ecology in the 'move-in' area. Much of the proposed irrigation land in the
'move-in' area consists of wind-formed hummocks susceptible to wind erosion
and the leveling and development of this land presents well-recognized
environmental risks. The protection strategy to be adopted during the initial
years of the project will be to level alternating strips of land, leaving the
intervening unleveled strips to act as wind-breaks, and to avoid undertaking
land leveling activities during the windy spring months. The land development
process also involves extensive planting of trees in shelterbelts that will
provide protection against wind erosion in the longer term. The agricultural
development adjacent to the project area has overcome such environmental
risks. The environmental issues are analyzed in detail in the environmental
summary of the Project.
Land Acquisition and Project Affected People
In Inner Mongolia and Gansu, very limited amounts of land may be acquired for
the purpose of road construction and establishment of rural enterprises. Land
Acquisition and Compensation Plans, covering an assessment of the surveyed
lands, compensation procedures, amounts and methods of compensation, and
management, supervision and grievance mechanisms have been adopted. In
Qinghai, there are about 4,000 farmers and herders in the 'move-in' area that
would be affected by the proposed project. Resettlement Action Plan has been
prepared for Qinghai.
Land Areas to be Acquired. In Inner Mongolia, the construction of a Class
III, 45 kilometer road would require 40 hectares of Gobi grassland. The road
would connect one sumu (township) and 583 grazing sites and would benefit
27,000 people of which 9,400 are designated poverty households. The land is
owned by three gachas and is not inhabited or used for grazing. In Gansu,
road construction and rural enterprise establishment would require land
acquisition from local communities. The total amount of land acquisition for
roads is 85 hectares, of which 20 hectares are dry farmland and the rest
wasteland. Land acquisition will take place in 29 project townships in seven
counties. It will affect 9,552 people in 1,931 farm households with lease
agreements. No land acquisition would result in relocation of existing
houses. Resettlement Action Plans have been prepared for both provinces.
In Qinghai, the proposed project would affect 201 households with 1,504
herders in Zongjia Township and 399 households with 2,496 farmers and herders
in Balong Township. The primary affected group consists of 63 households with
352 herders with access to 1,333 hectares of leased, poor quality spring and
winter pasture stretching along the northern boundary of the project area.
Another group of 289 households with 2,411 herders uses the project south-
north corridor as a passageway. The third group of 248 households with 1,237
members farms amidst a dilapidated irrigation scheme.
- 11 -



Compensation Principles and Rules. The project will compensate people
affected by land acquisition according to the Bank's OD 4.30 Involuntary
Resettlement and national and provincial rules and regulations. In Inner
Mongolia, the farmland compensation rate is Yuan 100 per mu and for
grassland, Yuan 60 per mu. The total compensation in Inner Mongolia is
estimated to Yuan 120,000. The gachas intend to use the proceeds for
grassland rehabilitation in the surrounding overgrazed pastures. In Gansu,
specific land acquisition must be examined and verified by the land
management authorities, prior to approval. Compensation for farmland consists
of land compensation, land settlement subsidy, and crop compensation.
In Qinghai, the proposed project has developed three compensation packages in
consultation with the affected farmers and herders, village leaders and
minority religious representatives. For the 63 herder households leasing
spring and winter pasture, compensation is made by trading in the poor
quality grazing land for irrigated forage land lands in accordance with a
formula based on their existing and new lands' productivity. In addition,
each herder household will be allocated, free of charge, 0.04 hectares of
land for housing and will enjoy the same preferential policies established
for the resettlement migrants (access to settlement subsidies, water supply,
electricity, schools, and health care clinics) . For the 289 households using
the land as public passage way to grazing lands north of the project area,
three fenced-off transit corridors will be established to allow the herders
to move their animals across the proposed project area to graze in the
natural pasture. In addition, the herders would also acquire 0.04 hectare of
land for housing and 0.31 ha for farming (cultivation- 0.22, pasture- 0.04,
forestry-0.05), on the same terms and conditions as the resettlement
migrants. The 248 households living in the old irrigation area would be
provided improved irrigation services supplied by the project. Those farmers
with less than 0.31 ha of farmland (the standard set for migrant settlers)
will be receiving new land up to this standard.
Management and Monitoring of Land Acquisition and Compensation. Provincial
PMOs take the overall responsibility for land acquisition and assign expert
groups to carry out external monitoring for land acquisition. County PMOs
would plan and manage land acquisition and ensure that procedures are
followed. County level project monitoring plans include monitoring for land
acquisition. Land management authorities and the Grassland Monitoring Station
in Inner Mongolia would supervise and monitor the process of land
acquisition. The Land Management Bureaus approve land acquisition and change
of land uses.
Ensuring Equitable Distribution of Benefits
The SAs identified some concerns that the benefits of the proposed activities
may be inequitably distributed among ethnic nationalities, women and project
affected households, including a concern, that non-poor households would
benefit. Transparent selection rules have been designed and implementation of
these rules will be closely supervised.
Participation of Women. The SAs paid special attention to integrate women's
concerns into project design with specific project components benefiting
women. The current situation of women in the PPs was analyzed in detail.
Extensive interviews and group sessions were organized to listen to women and
- 12 -



their suggestions in terms of the project design. This process was found
especially useful to ensure the participation of those ethnic minority women,
such as Tibetan and Mongol herders, who are not used to getting involved in
public activities. The main issues raised by women included: i) lack of
employment opportunities for cash income; ii) lack of working capital for
small scale household based planting, breeding and processing activities;
iii) lack of access to adequate women's health care; and iv) restricted entry
of girls into schools. The proposed project has been designed to accommodate
these concerns. Specifically designed programs and activities include: i)
women's' education (literacy and technical skills); ii) improved health care
(provision of midwives and training in women's health issues); iii) emphasis
on attracting girls to schools; iv) provision of special loans for women for
cash-generating activities (sewing, noodle processing, embroidery, knitting,
etc.).
Protection of Minority Rights
The SAs analyzed the characteristics of the major ethnic groups in the
proposed project areas and established operational strategies in the project
design for the minorities' development along with project implementation.
Although Han people are the majority in most of the project areas, accounting
for 86 percent of the total in the Inner Mongolia project area and 94 percent
in the Gansu project area, it was considered important to integrate minority
nationality concerns in project design and implementation in order to ensure
that the minority nationalities receive culturally compatible economic and
social benefits from the development intervention. In Inner Mongolia,
minority nationalities account for about 14 percent of the total population
in the project areas, (about 90 percent of them Mongols). The SA analyzed in
detail the Mongol social organization, economic foundation, production
patterns, household livelihoods, education, customs and religious beliefs.
Consultations with herders and farmers suggested that household development
models based on mixed farming, and animal husbandry and grassland
rehabilitation particularly designed for minority herders should be piloted.
In Gansu, the percentage of minority nationalities in the project areas is
comparatively lower (5.5 percent), predominantly Hui nationality in
Zhangjiachuan County. Nonetheless, the county PMO in Gansu selected six
typical villages from three townships in the county to make detailed village
investigation and villager consultation, so as to design appropriate sub-
projects to be undertaken compatibly within the Hui socio-cultural context.
In Qinghai, the SA conducted one village case study in each of the six 'move-
out' counties to develop model settlement villages. This was done in close
cooperation with community leaders and religious elders.
F. Specific Issues Related to Qinghai
Qinghai is the only PP where voluntary settlement is proposed. This has
focused scrutiny on the project component. The SA for Qinghai raises the
possibility for conflicts between farmers and herders, and ethnic conflicts
in the 'move-in' area as a potential risk. Public disorder was also raised as
a concern based on previous experience with settlers. Additional concerns
are: i) dilution of the Tibetan presence in the 'move-in' area as part of a
historical strategy of ethnic supplanting of minority nationalities; ii)
perceived weakening of Tibetan culture as seen in the claimed replacement of
the herding lifestyle with that of farming; iii) claimed difficulty of
ascertaining the "real" desires of the Tibetan herders in the project 'move-
- 13 -



in' area regarding these changes; and iv) the possibility of the use of
prison labor in project construction. Careful review of each of these issues
reveals that most of them were thoroughly discussed, researched, and provided
for in project design in general and the Local Beneficiary Participation
Plan, the Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan, and the Resettlement
Action Plan specifically.
Special Concerns
Dilution of Tibetan Presence in the 'Move-in' Area. Historically, and
particularly in the 20th century, there has been significant demographic
shifts of the Han population southward and westward. These past twenty years,
moreover, have seen long-distance migration of Chinese from all nationalities
to the coast and other areas of the country in pursuit of better economic
lives. In the Tibet Autonomous Region, and in other minority nationality
areas, there has been an influx of migrants from other parts of the country
such as Sichuan Province. This has sparked discussion of the long-term
effects on the ethnic or nationality character of these areas. However, the
proposed project entails no such long distance migratory pattern directly or
indirectly. All 57,775 settlers are migrating within the same province (about
450 km on average).
The area the migrants will leave behind, the 'move-out' area, although
populated now by mostly Han and Hui, holds special significance for Tibetans
both home and abroad. The current Dalai Lama and the former Panchen Lama had
their ancestral homes in two of the 'move-out' counties (Ping'an and Xunhua,
respectively). Thus it is perhaps not surprising that although Tibetans in
these counties now comprise close to 9.4 percent of the local population,
they are applying to emigrate at a significantly lower rate than other
nationalities, possibly reflecting the spiritual hold the home counties have
on them. To partially compensate for the reduced applicant pool, Tibetan
applications are approved at a rate higher than that of other nationalities
(40 percent versus 34 percent), but this still leaves the Tibetan out-
migration somewhat lower than their share of the local population. Such a
migratory pattern will leave these six 'move-out' counties slightly more
Tibetan at 9.5 percent (see Table 1). Also, various investments and
interventions (soil conservation, cultural and educational programs, and
culturally appropriate health care access) will be made in the 'move-out'
counties in order to improve the social and environmental conditions for the
remaining population.
Table 1: Population by Nationality in Move-Out Area
TABLE AVAILABLE IN INFOSHOP
The immediate 'move-in' area, currently has no Tibetans at all. The project
as currently planned will thus introduce a Tibetan presence into the area as
they will make up nearly 6 percent of the population. The two 'move-in'
townships of Zongjia and Balong which encompass the immediate project area,
yield a pre-project Mongol majority (about 55 percent) for the area's
population of 5,736. Among these are 276 Tibetan herders who bring their
animals to pasture in the Kunlun Mountains 120 kilometers south of the
project area during the summer and autumn, while wintering in an area 60
kilometers south of the project area. Given such distances, their pastoral
lifestyle is not anticipated to be substantially affected by the proposed
project. After the settlement is completed, Han and Hui would be the
- 14 -



predominant nationalities in the project townships, followed by smaller
numbers of the Tu, Salar, Tibetans, and Mongols. At the county level, the
settlement impact will be much reduced. The percentage of Han will fall from
about 53 percent to 48 percent, that of the Tibetans from about 23 percent to
14 percent and that of the Mongols from about 14 percent to about 7 percent,
while the proportional shares of the other minorities, especially the Hui
(from about 7 percent to 22 percent), will increase (see Table 2).
Table 2: Population by Nationality in 'Move-In' Area
TABLE AVAILABLE IN THE INFOSHOP
The question of "dilution" or enhancement of ethnic/nationality presence can
be answered in a number of ways, depending on the scope of the territorial
unit considered. Overall, it appears that the project will not significantly
impact China's spatial distribution of nationalities. The numbers involved
are small; totaling the 57,775 migrants plus the 4,000 people in the
immediate project area yields a number which comprises only about 1.2 percent
of Qinghai's population of about 5 million.
Significance of Project Areas as of Central Concerns to Tibetans. Of all the
Tibetan autonomous districts or Tibetan-populated districts in China, the
three project-affected prefectures (Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous
Prefecture, Haidong Administrative District, and Xining Municipality
District) are the least Tibetan. All have small Tibetan population (11
percent, 10 percent, and 4 percent, respectively). In demographic terms, the
project-affected districts are all relatively marginal to the Tibetan
presence in China. Geographically, the three districts are in the
northernmost fringe, in terms of distance from the heartland of Tibet.
Administratively, the three project-affected districts are the only districts
in Qinghai province not designated solely Tibetan Autonomous districts; all
the other five are Tibetan Autonomous Prefectures. Furthermore, according to
the Alliance for Research in Tibet, they are the only Tibetan-related areas
in all of China not recognized as a Tibetan Autonomous region, prefecture, or
county. Historically, the three project-affected districts have been beyond
Tibetan control since American colonial times.
Loss of Tibetan Pastoralism and Credibility of Reports of Tibetans Welcoming
the Project. The question has been raised as to whether or not the project
endangers the Tibetan herding subsistence life style. Actually, there are no
Tibetans at all in the immediate project area and only 276 Tibetans who herd
in the general project area. Most herding people in the project area are
Mongols, while most of the Han and Hui in the area are farmers or participate
in both herding and farming activities.
It should be noted that pastoralism as a way of life is already changing; few
households are now completely dependent on herding. A change towards a semi-
herding, semi-farming life style has already begun (as it also has in Inner
Mongolia) with some herders building permanent brick and wood or clay and
wood homes. Only Gouli Township in the 'move-in' area is a completely herding
area; all the other five townships are characterized by a mixture of farming
and herding. Special care will be given to ensuring that pastoralists will be
able to maintain their preferred methods of livelihood. For those 352 Mongol
herders whose grazing lands are directly impacted by the project, an exchange
of "land for land" will replace overgrazed, degraded pastureland with newly
- 15 -



re-seeded irrigated land. Allocation of land will be undertaken in such a
manner as to enable pastoralists to continue to use this land for herding
purposes. For those 2,411 herders whose traditional grazing areas are
affected by the project settlement, three separate grazing corridors will be
set up to enable their herds to pass through the settlement area.
The SA found that the herders, welcome the project, with about 10 percent
expressing their reservations. As most data collection was conducted through
interview questionnaires and focus groups (with researchers helping the
mostly illiterate herders to fill in the forms), complete anonymity of
responses was not always possible, thus raising the question of adequate
respondent confidentiality. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that the
reported welcoming of the project by the majority of herdsmen is an accurate
reflection of their desires and interests mainly because the herdsmen in the
SA report their concern that due to population pressure over the past few
years, the pastureland in the area has been severely degraded and that the
area can no longer support them as it once did. The herdsmen have expressed
the need to identify new economic options, including agricultural ones to
bolster their livelihood. Half of the surveyed herders requested land
allocation so as to pursue this possibility. The project's irrigation work is
likewise welcomed for providing a reliable water source not only for the
herds but also for agriculture as they pursue their semi-herding, semi-
farming lifestyle. The views of Tibetans in the six eastern 'move-out'
counties were also solicited and there is no reason to doubt the sincerity of
those who volunteered to 'move-out'. All migrants also have the option of
returning to their original homes during the first two years, without
financial or any other penalty, if they so decide.
Possibility of Use of Prison Labor in Project Construction. There are a
number of prison farms in Qinghai. The closest one to the project area is the
Xiangride State Prison Farm, located about 48 kilometers north of the area.
This irrigated state farm is drawing water from the Xiangride River, which is
also the primary source of irrigation water for the settlement area. The Bank
Team has concluded that the proposed project would not benefit any prison
farm directly nor will any prison farms or affiliated organizations
participate in any activities related to the proposed project. The State
Council's Leading Group for Poverty Reduction and Development and the
Provincial Government of Qinghai have also confirmed this in writing.
Additional Actions to Reduce Possible Conflicts
The SA conducted in the 'move-in' area determined that the majority of the
surveyed existing population accepts the migrants (29 percent of the herders
said that the migrants were "welcome"; 62 percent did "not object" to the
migrants). Nine percent of the surveyed existing population in the 'move-in'
area expressed their unwillingness to welcome the migrants mainly due to
concerns about public disorder and fears of grassland overgrazing. Previous
migrations of settlers into the area during the 1980s led to cattle thefts,
so both local cadre and herders expressed concern about a reoccurrence of
such incidents and asked that better public safety measures be undertaken.
The SAs address the concerns of potential conflicts with the influx of
migrants. Another issue identified in the SA is potential conflicts over
water. Many herders expressed their fear that they would be excluded from
adequate water supply or from access to the new irrigation works. They were
anxious to be reassured that the demands for water from the new settlements
- 16 -



would not put them at a disadvantage. Cadres also feared that so many poor
people from the mountainous areas would want to come to the new area that
they would not wait for approval and would come illegally, thus overwhelming
the local area and its infrastructure.
Social Stability. A number of possible mitigation strategies were identified
in the SA, including having villagers from the 'move-out' area move as a
group to the new village site, thus maintaining both formal and informal
social control mechanisms. At the herders request, local police sub-stations
and people's courts will be set up in the settlement area to ensure overall
public safety and training of new and existing law enforcement officers will
be conducted. To lessen the potential of inter-ethnic conflicts, the two
Muslim groups, the Hui and the Salar, would be settled in adjoining areas,
while the culturally similar Tu and Mongols would be located in similarly
contiguous settlements. In addition, the Local Beneficiary Participation
Action Plan promotes active participation in project implementation by the
'move-in' and 'move-out' people and a series of suggestions made by the local
herders were incorporated into the Plan. References are made to include
community and religious elders in the leadership groups to help secure
community-wide buy-in and ensure that the project implementation is
compatible with the cultural preferences of the nationalities concerned. The
project design included suggestions made by local authorities including: i)
clear demarcation of the boundary between the proposed project area and
neighboring grazing areas; ii) adoption of measures to protect adjacent
grazing lands and desert vegetation; iii) provision of adequate support to
the migrants when they arrive; and iv) ensuring that the irrigation
development is in place prior to migration.
Pilot Program. A pilot program on 300 hectares for 200 households would be
undertaken in advance of full-scale project implementation to test the
proposed interventions at the field level with the participation of project
beneficiaries. This would create a demonstration area which could be later
used as a training site for project participants and provide an opportunity
to show typical types of irrigation layout, village infrastructure, schools,
clinics, agricultural (planting of green manure) and land management
practices which would be promoted by the project. The pilot program would
also include participatory evaluation techniques to provide input from a
representative range of parties in the project area. The pilot would also
ensure that the minority needs are fully met. The pilot program would provide
an opportunity to develop "lessons learned" which could be applied to the
design and implementation of the full-scale phase of activities which would
start after full evaluation of the pilot program by independent reviewers. It
would be carried out in such a way that it does not interfere with current
land use patterns of the herders or farmers living in the area, nor will it
result in loss of their shelter, productive assets, or access to pastures.
Irrigation will be provided through use of ground water and diesel engine
driven pumps, so as to avoid the necessity of developing major irrigation
works during the pilot phase. Expenditures for this activity have been
approved for retroactive financing under the project. The PMO would be
responsible for the implementation and supervision of the pilot program.
Monitoring of the Pilot Program. The pilot program is designed to avoid
conflicts and enable adjustments in the project design before the bulk of the
migrants arrive. The pilot settlement will be closely monitored to measure
the effectiveness and adoption rates of the various program components and
- 17 -



also to identify emerging issues, if any, in the relationship between
migrants and receiving area population. Full scale settlement would only
begin after the pilot program is completed and evaluated. In addition to the
pilot itself, a 5 percent population sample tracking procedure has been
developed for semi-annual progress reports to the PMOs and the Provincial
Leading Group.
Indicators to determine the success of the pilot program are both economic
and social. Economic Indicators include: (i) adaptation rates are high; (ii)
incomes and yields increase; (iii) both farmers and pastoralists continue to
earn their livelihoods without hindering the other's effort; and (iv)
villages receive adequate water, electricity, and other infra-structural
supports. Social Indicators would include: (i) the project is carried out in
a socioculturally appropriate manner; (ii) beneficiaries' satisfaction rates
are high; (iii) there is not only an absence of conflict but mutual inter-
ethnic respect in religious and other spheres; (iv) villages have access to
adequate and culturally appropriate social services (schools, health care,
credit, cultural enrichment); (v) project beneficiaries from the move-out
areas report the selection process ethnically equitable and efficient; and
(vi) local governments and cadre from both the move-out and move-in areas
collaborate to smooth the transition for host area population, migrants, and
future migrants. The pilot program monitoring process will result in a report
G. Institutional Capacity
Project Provinces Capacity for Mitigation of Social Impacts and Protection of
Minority Rights. The PPs will closely follow the implementation of the SA
suggestions and monitor impact and effectiveness of actions. Especially the
pilot program will be closely monitored and thoroughly evaluated by
independent reviewers before full-scale resettling will commence.
The People's Republic of China officially describes itself as a multi-
nationality country. Its constitution delegates protected rights and powers
of self-government to its 56 officially recognized nationalities. Nationwide,
the non-Han 8 percent of the population listed as minorities enjoys special
protections and status, including various degrees of administrative self-rule
in a network of autonomous regions, prefectures and counties. Qinghai
encompasses such minority jurisdictions in both the 'move-in' and 'move-out'
areas (e.g. Haixi Mongolian and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture; Hualong Hui
Autonomous County). On the ground, autonomous status has meant greater legal
protection for minority culture and languages and greater representation of
minorities in local cadre/official posts. Such affirmative action policies
apply to a wide range of social policies, not least of which is exemption
from stringent Chinese family planning policies.
In Qinghai minority jurisdictions, schools have been established to preserve
and promote minority cultures. The proposed project design includes the
establishment language minority schools in the 'move-in' area and a number of
education programs in the 'move-out' area. In addition, culturally
appropriate health care facilities are being established both, in the 'move-
in' and 'move-out' countries. Furthermore, the Local Beneficiaries Action
Plan has a list of explicit preferential suggestions for women and
minorities, including special credit lines, educational preferences, special
training opportunities, and provisions for continuation of religious and
- 18 -



cultural customs.
On the ground, although minority policies have varied significantly over the
decades of 20th century Chinese history, during past two reform decades,
autonomous status has meant greater legal protection for minority culture and
languages and greater representation of minorities in local cadre/official
posts. Such affirmative action policies apply to a wide range of social
policies, not least of which is exemption from stringent Chinese family
planning policies. Overall, there is clear and strong evidence that the
Chinese commitment to poverty reduction is serious and long lasting.
H. Grievance Mechanism
Consultation and Grievance Mechanism. Project beneficiaries and project
affected people in all PPs will have access to a consultation and grievance
mechanism to address their concerns in regard to the proposed project. The
mechanism and procedures have been described to the project beneficiaries and
stakeholders. It is believed that this will be particularly useful in the
case of land acquisition if farmers feel unsatisfied with compensation
implementation or if conflicts arise between farmers and herders. Complaints
and grievances can also be raised and reported to the higher level PMOs, the
land management authorities, and the external, independent monitoring groups.
Beneficiaries and stakeholders also have rights to raise any questions
directly to local government and provincial authorities. The right to make
lawsuits has been made explicit to the farmers and herders. All complaints,
both oral and written, will be recorded including resolution and the time of
resolution. External monitoring reports will include a summary of grievances
received, if any, and the manner in which they were resolved.
Yuan 1.00 = US $0.12
The Keri dam is an off-river regulating reservoir that will inundate approximately 128
hectares of extremely sparsely vegetated and unutilized desert land to an average depth of
about 15 meters. As such, the environmental implications of its construction were
determined to be insufficient to justify assigning the Project to Category A.
- 19 -



