Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3255 - CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4501 - CHA
Project Agreement
(Western Poverty Reduction Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
GANSU PROVINCE 
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION 
and 
QINGHAI PROVINCE
Dated December 30, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3255 - CHA 
LOAN NUMBER 4501- CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 30, 1999, among INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association), INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
and GANSU PROVINCE (Gansu), INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION (Inner Mongolia) and 
QINGHAI PROVINCE (Qinghai) (Gansu, Inner Mongolia and Qinghai, hereinafter referred to 
collectively as the Project Provinces and individually as a Project Province).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the People’s Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
seventy-three million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR73,800,000) on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to sixty 
million dollars ($60,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that the Project Provinces agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Project Provinces, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, and the Bank’s entering into 
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set 
Page  2
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, 
respectively) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and, wherever used in 
this Agreement (except in Section 5.03 hereof and Part A.2 of Section I, and Part A.2 
of Section II, of Schedule 1 hereto) reference to the Association, the Credit or the 
Credit Account shall also be deemed as reference to the Bank, the Loan and the Loan 
Account, respectively. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Each Project Province declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, agricultural, labor, and water resource management practices 
and sound health, safety and environmental standards, and appropriate environmental 
management practices acceptable to the Association; and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for its Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Project Province concerned shall otherwise 
agree, each Project Province shall take the actions set forth or referred to in the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, in order to ensure 
the proper implementation of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Each Project Province shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement and in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions applicable to the Loan Agreement (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of its Respective Part of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions referred to in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement and Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement, and without limitation 
thereto, each Project Province shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the 
Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Association and said 
Project Province, a plan for the future 
operation of its Respective Part of 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with said 
Project Province on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Each Project Province shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of its 
Page  3
Respective Part of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
Each Project Province shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
Respective Part of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or 
the performance by said Project Province of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) Each Project Province shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the carrying out of its 
Respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Each Project Province shall: 
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with consistently 
applied appropriate 
auditing principles, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Association may, from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement become effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Project Provinces thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two 
dates: 
(i)
the date on which both the Development Credit Agreement and the 
Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement terminates in 
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify the Project Provinces of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions 
applicable to the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
Page  4
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
     and Development
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C., 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Gansu:
Gansu Provincial Finance Bureau
616 Donggang Road, Lanzhou 730000
Gansu Province
People’s Republic of China
For Inner Mongolia:
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region Finance Bureau
No. 1 Xin Hua Street, Huhhot 010055
Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region
People’s Republic of China
For Qinghai:
Qinghai Provincial Finance Bureau
196 Huanghe Road, Xining 810001
Qinghai Province
People’s Republic of China
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of a Project 
Province may be taken or executed by the Governor (or Chairman, in the case of Inner 
Mongolia) or any Vice Governor (or Vice Chairman, in the case of Inner Mongolia) of 
said Project Province or such other person or persons as said Governor (or Chairman) 
or Vice Governor (or Vice Chairman) shall designate in writing, and said Project 
Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the contrary to the 
Project Provinces and so long as the Development Credit Agreement shall not have 
terminated prior to the termination of the Loan Agreement:
(a)
the obligations of the Project Provinces to consult with, and to furnish 
information, documents, plans, reports, records and statements to, the Bank shall be 
Page  5
satisfied to the extent performance in respect of such obligations is rendered to the 
Association;
(b)
the obligations of the Bank to consult with, and to furnish information 
to, the Project Provinces shall be satisfied to the extent such obligations are 
fulfilled by the Association; and
(c)
all actions taken (including the giving of approvals or granting of 
waivers) by the Association pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement shall be 
deemed to be taken pursuant to both the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan 
Agreement, and in the name and on behalf of both the Association and the Bank.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
GANSU PROVINCE
INNER MONGOLIA AUTONOMOUS REGION
QINGHAI PROVINCE
By /s/ Zhu Guangyao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with:  (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in 
September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of goods or works to be financed in whole or 
in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of 
the Guidelines to “Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be 
references, respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
Page  6
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower (excluding 
the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the Borrower).
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Works
(a)
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$200,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $37,700,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $29,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include 
a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
(c)
Force Account and Beneficiary Participation
Works which meet the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and which 
are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per assignment, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $69,900,000 equivalent, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines, or by the use of Project beneficiaries hired in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
2.
Goods
(a)
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, but not less than 
$100,000 equivalent, per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $6,600,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
National Shopping 
Goods (including, without limitation, breeding animals and tree seedlings) 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $81,700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
(c)
Subprojects
Fertilizer required for Subprojects under Part A(1)(a)(ii), B(1)(a)(ii) or 
C(1)(b)(ii) of the Project may be procured at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors, such as time of delivery and reliability of the 
Page  7
fertilizer.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply with respect to:  (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $250,000 or more; (b) the first three contracts for goods to be procured 
by each Project Province in accordance with the provisions of Part C.2(a) of this 
Section I; (c) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000,000 
or more; and (d) the first three contracts for works to be procured by each Project 
Province in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1(a) of this Section I. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and in January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth 
in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
For the purposes of the procurement of consultants’ services to be financed in 
whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit, the references in paragraph 1.10 
of the Consultant Guidelines to "Bank member countries” and “member country” shall be 
deemed to be references, respectively, to "Participating Countries” and “Participating 
Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
Page  8
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 2.01(b) 
of this Agreement. 
A.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project and the continued 
achievement of its objectives, each Project Province shall at all times maintain with 
terms of reference, composition, and resources satisfactory to the Association, and 
with qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers: 
(a)
a project management office at the provincial/regional level, to be 
responsible for the overall management of implementation of its Respective Part of the 
Project; 
(b)
a project management office in each county/banner included in its Project 
Areas, to be responsible for the management of the activities under its Respective 
Part of the Project to be implemented at its respective level; and 
(c)
an independent panel of experts to be responsible for providing technical 
advice to the PMOs. 
2.
In order to ensure the proper monitoring and evaluation of the environmental 
impact of its Respective Part of the Project, each Project Province shall continue, 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, to employ environmental 
experts, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association.
B.
Local Beneficiaries Participation Action Plans; Resettlement 
1.
(a)
Each Project Province shall take all measures necessary to ensure that 
all persons affected by the Project fully participate in the Project’s design and 
implementation and receive social and economic benefits from its Respective Part of 
the Project that are compatible with their cultural preferences.  To this end, each 
Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the Project in accordance with 
its respective Local Beneficiaries Participation Action Plan, and, in the case of 
Qinghai, in accordance with the provisions set forth below in paragraph 1(b) of this 
Part B and an implementation plan acceptable to the Association.
(b)
In order to ensure an orderly and culturally appropriate implementation 
Page  9
of Qinghai’s Respective Part of the Project, Qinghai shall take the following 
measures:
(i)
Prior to the emigration of any Qinghai Settlement Beneficiary from 
their 
village of origin, Qinghai shall: (A) carry out a study, in 
accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, to 
update its assessment of 
the social needs of all of the Qinghai 
Settlement Beneficiaries (including 
those households living in 
or utilizing land in Qinghai’s Dulan County, and 
those living in 
Qinghai’s Counties of Minhe, Xunhua, Hualong, Ping’an, 
Huangyuan and Datong), and recommend, on the basis of said updated assessment, 
measures to update the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan; and 
(B) exchange views with the Association on said study and 
recommendations, and 
thereafter promptly update the Qinghai 
Voluntary Settlement Implementation 
Plan, taking into account 
the views of the Association on the matter.  In 
order to 
assist Qinghai in carrying out said study, Qinghai shall employ 
consultants whose terms of reference, qualifications and experience shall be 
satisfactory to the Association.
(ii)
Once Qinghai has updated the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement 
Implementation Plan 
in accordance with the provisions of 
subparagraph (i) above, it shall 
initially undertake a pilot 
voluntary settlement program to settle not more 
than 200 households 
in one village located in an area of the Qinghai 
Settlement 
Area selected in agreement with the Association.  Qinghai shall 
ensure that the pilot is implemented in a manner designed to avoid any change 
in land or water use that would result in the involuntary loss by persons of 
shelter, productive assets or access to productive assets, or of income 
or 
means of livelihood.  During the implementation of said 
pilot program, Qinghai 
shall ensure that no further settlement of 
Qinghai Settlement Beneficiaries 
occurs.
(iii)
Prior to undertaking any further emigration of Qinghai Settlement 
Beneficiaries to the Qinghai Settlement Area, Qinghai shall: 
(A) prepare a 
report in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association on 
the results of the pilot voluntary 
settlement program referred to above in 
subparagraph (ii), 
and furnish said report to the Association, together with 
recommendations based thereon to ensure the continued implementation of the 
Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan in a manner consistent with 
the provisions of Part B.1(a) of this Schedule 2; (B) exchange views with 
the 
Association on said report and recommendations; and (B) revise the 
Qinghai 
Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan, as needed, 
to take into account the 
views of the Association in the matter. 
2.
Each Project Province shall carry out its respective Resettlement Action Plan in 
a manner designed to improve the living standards and production levels of all persons 
who suffer the involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to productive 
assets, income or means of livelihood, as a result of any works to be carried out 
under the Project which cause any change in land or water use.
3.
Each Project Province shall:  (a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, the implementation of its respective Beneficiaries Participation Action 
Plan and Resettlement Action Plan and the achievement of their respective objectives; 
(b) include the results of said monitoring and evaluation activities in each report to 
be prepared by it and furnished to the Association pursuant to Part G.2(a) of this 
Schedule, together with any revisions proposed to be introduced into said plans in 
order to achieve respective their objectives; and (c) introduce such revisions into 
said plans as shall have been agreed with the Association. 
C.
Livestock Activities
In order to ensure that Livestock Subprojects are carried out in an 
environmentally sustainable manner, each Project Province shall take the following 
measures:
Page  10
1.
The Project Province shall ensure that each village its the Project Areas shall:  
(a)
develop an annual livestock development and grassland management plan, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, designed to ensure that the 
numbers of livestock in the village are limited to levels such that their feed 
requirements do not exceed the feed supplies available to the village, and that the 
village grassland is utilized in an environmentally sustainable manner; and 
(b)
implement said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate environmental practices. 
2.
The Project Province shall ensure that all village grassland utilized under the 
Project shall be leased to the users thereof for a period of at least 30 years under 
conditions designed to ensure the utilization of said land in accordance with the 
grassland management plan developed by the village concerned. 
3.
(a)
The Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable the villages within its Project Areas to monitor and evaluate, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association the types and quantity of livestock 
within each said village and the types and quantity of livestock feed currently and 
expected to be available to said village throughout the year.
(b)
The Project Province shall prepare annual reports on the basis of said 
monitoring and evaluation activities and under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and include each such report in the implementation plan to be furnished 
to the Borrower and the Association each year pursuant to Part F of this Schedule.  
Each such report shall set forth the current quantity of livestock and livestock feed 
supplies in said villages, as well as the projected livestock numbers and feed 
balances for the next following calendar year. 
(c)
After furnishing each such report, the Project Province shall review the 
same with the Borrower and the Association, and thereafter, taking into account the 
views of the Borrower and the Association on the matter, adjust its livestock 
development and grassland management plan for the current calendar year, if necessary, 
so as to limit the quantity of livestock in each village to levels such that their 
feed requirements do not exceed the feed supplies available to said village and that 
the village grassland continues to be utilized in an environmentally sustainable 
manner.
D.
Subprojects 
1.
General 
(a)
Each Project Province shall ensure that Subprojects shall be appraised 
and monitored in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the 
Association. 
(b)
In order to assist the Project Provinces in the financial appraisal and 
supervision of Subloans, each Project Province shall, prior to the appraisal of the 
first or Rural Enterprise Subproject to be included in its Respective Part of the 
Project, or of the first Subproject to be included in its Respective Part of the 
Project under Part  A(i)(a)(ii), Part B(i)(a)(ii) or Part C(i)(b)(ii) of the Project 
(as the case may be) employ the Agricultural Bank of China as a financial agent for 
said Project Province, under arrangements acceptable to the Association. 
2.
Eligibility
Each investment subproject proposed for inclusion in a Project Province’s 
Respective Part of the Project as a Subproject shall qualify as a Subproject eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit only if said Project Province has 
determined, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association that the 
following conditions have been met; and, in the case of a Rural Enterprise Subproject, 
the Association has notified said Project Province of the Association’s approval of 
the Subproject: 
Page  11
(a) 
the Beneficiary of the Subproject is creditworthy and possesses the 
technical skills and resources required for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(b)
the Subproject is economically and financially viable and commercially 
and technically feasible;
(c)
in the case of a Livestock Subproject:  (A) the Beneficiary thereof has 
adequate sources of forage or grain feed for the livestock to be included in the 
Subproject; and (B) the Subproject is to be carried out in a village which has 
developed and is implementing a livestock development and grassland management plan in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C of this Schedule;
(d) 
in the case of a Rural Enterprise Subproject:  (i) (A) less than half of 
the outstanding proprietary interest of the Beneficiary thereof is owned or 
effectively controlled: (1) by an agency or administrative subdivision of the 
Borrower; or (2) by an enterprise whose outstanding proprietary interest is owned or 
effectively controlled by such an agency or subdivision; and (B) said Beneficiary:  
(1) has the organization, management and staff required for the efficient carrying out 
of its operations, including the Subproject; and (2) has a sound financial structure 
and is able and has undertaken to contribute at least 30% of the total estimated cost 
of the Subproject in the form of equity; and (ii) the Subproject is designed to 
alleviate poverty through:  (A) the creation of jobs for poor households; (B) the 
provision of affordable inputs or technical assistance to such households; or (C) the 
provision of profitable markets for goods produced by such households; 
(e)
the Subproject is in compliance with environmental standards acceptable 
to the Association, and with all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and environmental protection, and, in the case of a Rural 
Enterprise Subproject, has been developed in accordance with the recommendations of an 
environmental impact assessment of the Subproject that shall have been approved by the 
environmental protection bureau responsible for the locality in which the Subproject 
is located; and
(f)
if, as a result of any works to be carried out under the Subproject, any 
persons would suffer the involuntary loss of shelter, productive assets, access to 
productive assets, income or means of livelihood, the Subproject includes a 
resettlement action plan for all said persons which:  (A) has been prepared on the 
basis of policies, planning principles, institutional arrangements and design criteria 
acceptable to the Association, including those set forth in said Project Province’s 
respective Resettlement Action Plan, so as to improve the living standards and 
productive capacity of such persons; and (B) has been furnished to, and approved by, 
the Association. 
3.
Terms and Conditions for Subprojects Made on Credit Terms
Each Project Province shall ensure that the goods (including livestock) required 
for Livestock Subprojects that are included in its Respective Part of the Project, and 
Subprojects under Part A(1)(a)(i) (non fertilizer inputs) of the Project in the case 
of Gansu, B(1)(a)(i) (non-fertilizer inputs) or B(4) (farm machinery) of the Project 
in the case of Inner Mongolia, or C(1)(b)(i) (non fertilizer inputs) of the Project in 
the case of Qinghai, and are to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall 
be made available to Individual Beneficiaries on the following terms and conditions. 
(a)
The amount of the Credit used to finance the goods required for a 
Subproject shall be paid by the Beneficiary thereof to the Project Province on terms 
relating to interest and maturity equivalent to those applied by the Agricultural Bank 
of China in accordance with its standard policies to loans made by it to its borrowers 
for similar investments.  The amount so repayable by said Beneficiary shall be the 
equivalent in the currency of the Borrower (determined on the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the 
value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of said 
goods.
(b)
Each Beneficiary shall undertake to use the goods made available to it 
for its Subproject exclusively for the purposes of said Subproject and in accordance 
with implementation guidelines acceptable to the Association. 
Page  12
4.
Terms and Conditions of Subloans
(a)
Each Subloan to a Beneficiary shall be made on the following principal 
terms: 
(i)
the principal amount of the Subloan shall be the equivalent in the 
currency of 
the Borrower (determined on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment out of the Special 
Account) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or 
paid out, on account of the cost of 
goods and services for the 
Subproject for which said Subloan is made; and  
(ii) 
the terms of the Subloan relating to interest and maturity shall 
be equivalent 
to those applied by the Agricultural Bank of China in 
accordance with its 
standard policies to loans made by it to 
its borrowers for similar 
investments;
(b)
Each Subloan for a Subproject shall be made on conditions whereby the 
Beneficiary thereof shall undertake: 
(i)
to carry out said Subproject with due diligence and efficiency, in 
accordance 
with sound financial and technical practices and consistent 
with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental practices acceptable 
to the Association, and 
to provide, promptly as needed, the funds and 
other resources required for the 
purpose, and maintain adequate records 
and accounts; 
(ii) 
if, as a result of any works to be carried out under said 
Subproject, any 
person would suffer the involuntary loss of 
shelter, productive assets, access 
to productive assets, income or 
means of livelihood, to take and cause to be 
taken all measures 
necessary to ensure that the living standards and 
productive 
capacity of all such persons shall be increased in accordance with 
the resettlement plan referred to above in paragraph 2(f) of this Part D; 
(iii)  to procure the goods and services required for said Subproject in 
accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, and 
utilize said goods 
and services exclusively in the carrying out of said 
Subproject; 
(iv) 
to take out and maintain such insurance, against such risks and in 
such 
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such 
insurance to cover the hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and 
delivery of goods financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to the place of 
use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be payable in a currency 
freely usable 
by said Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;  
(v) 
to enable the Association to inspect the goods and sites and works 
included in 
its Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;  
(vi) 
to maintain and operate its equipment and facilities at all times, 
and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and industry 
practice; and  
(vii)  to furnish to the Association, all such information as the 
Association may 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing 
and to the administration, 
operations and financial 
condition of said Beneficiary.
(c)
Each Project Province shall exercise its rights in relation to each 
Subproject for which it shall have made a Subloan in such manner as to protect its 
interests and those of the Association, comply with its obligations under this 
Agreement and the achievement of the purposes of the Project. 
5.
Qinghai Subprojects Qinghai shall ensure that all Qinghai Subprojects shall be 
Page  13
appraised, financed and supervised under arrangements, acceptable to the Association, 
entered into between Qinghai and the Agricultural Bank of China, pursuant to which the 
Agricultural Bank of China shall make loans for the Qinghai Subprojects in accordance 
with its standard policies and procedures for poverty alleviation loans. 
E.
Training
Each Project Province shall carry out all training, studies and research under 
the Project in accordance with a program acceptable to the Association.  To this end, 
said Project Province shall include in the implementation plan to be furnished to the 
Borrower and the Association each year pursuant to Part F of this Schedule a proposed 
program of training activities to be implemented under its Respective Part of the 
Project during the following year. 
F.
Annual Implementation Plans
1.
Each Project Province shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Borrower and the Association, not later than 
December 1 in each calendar year, a proposed implementation plan for the carrying out 
of its Respective Part of the Project during the following calendar year, said plan 
to: 
(a)
describe the activities which it proposes to carry out under its 
Respective Part of the Project during said period; and  
(b)
be accompanied by a financing plan therefor and evidence satisfactory to 
the Association that funds in adequate amounts are available for the payment of 
expenditures to be incurred in the carrying out of said Respective Part of the Project 
during said period. 
2.
Thereafter, said Project Province shall carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project during said following calendar year in accordance with such implementation 
plan as shall have been approved by the Association. 
G.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting 
1.
Each Project Province shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable 
it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Association the carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project 
and the achievement of its objectives, including the impact of the Project on the 
alleviation of poverty in its Respective Project Areas.
2.
Each Project Province shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and furnish to the Borrower and the Association the following 
reports:
(a)
progress reports, not later than January 31 and July 31 in each calendar 
year, commencing calendar year 2000, said reports to:  (i) integrate the results of 
said monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of its Respective Part of the Project during the preceding calendar semester (or 
preceding calendar year in the case of the January 31 report) in respect of the 
Project; (ii) set forth physical and financial progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively, and in respect of said preceding calendar semester (or preceding 
calendar year in the case of the January 31 report); and (iii) set out any additional 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the Project and the achievement of its objectives during said following calendar year;
(b)
an annual report, not later than December 1 in each calendar year, which: 
(i) integrates the results of said monitoring and evaluation in respect of the impact 
of its Respective Part of the Project on the alleviation of poverty and on the 
environment in its Respective Project Areas to date; and (ii) sets out any additional 
measures recommended to further alleviate such poverty and ensure the environmental 
sustainability of the Project; and
(c)
a mid-term report, not later than January 31, 2003, which integrates the 
results of said monitoring and evaluation activities on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project during the period preceding the 
Page  14
date of said report and sets out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the Project’s objectives during the 
period following such date. 
3.
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 2 of this Part, each 
Project Province shall exchange views with the Borrower and the Association on said 
report, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the continued efficient 
implementation of its Respective Part of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Borrower and the Association’s views on the matter. 
H.
Gansu’s Respective Part of the Project (Labor Mobility) 
1.
In order to ensure the proper implementation of Part A(6) of the Project, Gansu 
shall take all measures required on its part to ensure that the program to provide 
employment to all surplus laborers in Gansu shall be implemented on a voluntary basis 
and in a manner designed to ensure safe and equitable working and living conditions 
for said laborers.  To this end, Gansu shall take all measures required on its part to 
carry out said employment program in accordance with the Gansu Labor Mobility Program.
2.
Gansu shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate, 
in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the implementation of the 
Gansu Labor Mobility Program, including, without limitation the process for the 
selection of laborers for employment, the safety, treatment and living conditions of 
said laborers, and the impact of the remittances of said laborers to their families.   
3.
Gansu shall prepare annual reports, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish the same to the Borrower and Association not later than 
December 1 in each calendar year, said annual reports to integrate the results of said 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed during the preceding calendar year and 
setting out any revisions indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities to 
the Gansu Labor Mobility Program. 
4.
After furnishing each such report, Gansu shall review the same with the Borrower 
and the Association, and promptly take all measures required to ensure the continued 
efficient implementation of the Gansu Labor Mobility Program and achievement of its 
objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the 
Borrower’s and the Association’s views on the matter, and introduce such revisions to 
the Gansu Labor Mobility Program as shall have been agreed with the Borrower and the 
Association.
5.
In order to assist Gansu in monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the 
implementation of the Gansu Labor Mobility Program, Gansu shall employ, not later than 
December 31, 1999, independent experts with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association. 
I.
Qinghai’s Respective Part of the Project (Dam Safety; Irrigation Water Charges) 
1.
In order to ensure the safety of each dam which is to be constructed or upgraded 
under Part C(2) of the Project and its associated structures (collectively, the 
Project Dams, and individually, a Project Dam), Qinghai shall undertake the following 
actions in accordance with sound engineering practices and on the basis of guidelines 
acceptable to the Association. 
(a)
In order to ensure the proper construction of the Project Dams, Qinghai 
shall employ, not later than November 30, 1999, engineering consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be responsible 
for supervision of said construction.
(b)
Qinghai shall: (i) undertake periodic reviews of the adequacy of the 
design and construction of the Project Dams, throughout the period of its construction 
and the start of its operations; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Association, promptly 
upon the completion of each said review, a report of the results of said review, 
together with any recommended changes to be introduced into the design, construction 
or operation of the Project Dams; and (iii) thereafter, promptly introduce the changes 
recommended by said report, taking into account the views of the Association on the 
Page  15
matter.  In order to assist it in undertaking said reviews, Qinghai shall continue to 
employ a panel of independent experts, with terms of reference, qualifications and 
experience acceptable to the Association.
(c)
Qinghai shall ensure that the Project Dams are operated and maintained in 
accordance with sound engineering practices.  To this end, Qinghai shall:  (i) prepare 
an operational and maintenance plan and an emergency preparedness plan for the Project 
Dams; (ii) furnish the same to the Association not later than December 31, 2001, and 
(iii) thereafter, promptly adopt said plans, taking into account the views of the 
Association on the matter.
(d)
Upon completion of the Project Dams, Qinghai shall:  (i) undertake annual 
inspections of the Project Dams in order to identify any deficiencies in its design, 
construction or condition or in the quality and adequacy of the maintenance or methods 
of its operation, which may endanger its safety or the safety of downstream life, 
property or activities; and (ii) promptly rectify any such deficiencies. 
2.
(a)
Qinghai declares its policy to recover the recurrent costs of operation 
and maintenance, and a portion of the capital costs, of the irrigation, drainage and 
water supply facilities included in its Project Areas, including those constructed 
under its Respective Part of the Project, from users of the water delivered through 
said facilities, taking into account the need to provide incentives to encourage the 
efficient use of water and to relate the charges on the users thereof to their ability 
to pay and income levels.  In furtherance of said policy, Qinghai shall, promptly upon 
completion of the facilities which are constructed or upgraded under its Respective 
Part of the Project, establish and collect from said users, water charges sufficient 
to cover (i) the operation and maintenance costs of said facilities as they are 
incurred and (ii) a reasonable portion of the capital costs of said facilities over a 
period not to exceed 30 years.
(b)
To that end, Qinghai shall prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable 
to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than December 31, 1999, 
the proposed schedule of said water charges and timetable for its establishment, 
together with any information pertaining thereto that the Association may reasonably 
request, and thereafter promptly take all measures necessary to introduce such 
schedule according to said timetable, taking into account the views of the Association 
on the matter. 
(c)
Qinghai shall review the above charges in consultation with the 
Association, at regular intervals not exceeding 1 year each, and, based on each such 
review, Qinghai shall adjust said charges as necessary so as to continue to give 
effect to the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 2. 
(d)
Qinghai shall maintain a separate accounting for funds collected pursuant 
to the provisions of the above paragraphs and cause all said funds to be used 
exclusively for the purposes specified therein. 
J.
Qinghai’s Respective Part of the Project (Qinghai Voluntary Settlement 
Implementation Plan)
Under Part C(5) of the Project, Qinghai shall take all measures necessary to 
ensure that the emigration of all Qinghai Settlement Beneficiaries to the Qinghai 
Settlement Area shall be implemented on a voluntary basis and in a manner designed to 
improve the living standards and productivity of all households in Qinghai’s Project 
Areas, including the Qinghai Settlement Beneficiaries and the households who remain in 
the counties of origin of the emigrating Qinghai Settlement Beneficiaries.  To this 
end, Qinghai shall take the following actions. 
1.
Qinghai carry out said emigration in accordance with the Qinghai Voluntary 
Settlement Implementation Plan.
2.
Qinghai shall allocate irrigated farm land in the Qinghai Settlement Area to 
each Qinghai Settlement Beneficiary, in amounts and under arrangements acceptable to 
the Association, designed to ensure the productive use of such land, such arrangements 
to include:
(a) 
a written lease agreement whereby said land shall be leased to said 
settler’s household for purposes of crop and fodder cultivation, for a duration of at 
Page  16
least 30 years on terms acceptable to the Association; and
(b) 
exemption from agricultural taxes on said land for the first 3 years of 
the lease. 
3.
Qinghai shall operate the grant facility included in Part C(5)(b) of the Project 
under arrangements acceptable to the Association. 
4.
(a)
Qinghai shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and 
evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, the 
implementation of the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan. 
(b)
Qinghai shall prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Borrower and the Association, annual reports, not 
later than January 31 in each calendar year, integrating the results of said 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed during the preceding calendar year and 
setting out any revisions indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities to 
the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan. 
(c)
After furnishing each such report, Qinghai shall review the same with the 
Borrower and the Association, and promptly take all measures required to ensure the 
continued efficient implementation of the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation 
Plan and achievement of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of said report and the Borrower’s and the Association’s views on the matter, and 
introduce such revisions to the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan as 
shall have been agreed with the Association.
5.
In order to assist Qinghai in monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the 
implementation of the Qinghai Voluntary Settlement Implementation Plan, Qinghai shall 
employ, not later than December 31, 1999, independent experts with terms of reference, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
K.
Health and Education
1.
Gansu and Inner Mongolia shall each develop and implement not later than 
September 30, 2000, the cooperative medical financing system included in its 
Respective Part of the Project, in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable 
to the Association, said policies and procedures to be designed to insure families 
living in said Project Province’s Respective Project Areas for expenses incurred in 
obtaining essential health services and to define: (a) the health expenditures to be 
covered by said system; (b) the health service providers and families eligible to 
participate in said system; (c) the terms and conditions of financial coverage under 
said system; and (d) the operational guidelines for determination of such eligibility 
and for the operation and management of said system.
2.
Qinghai shall develop and implement not later than September 30, 2000, the 
medical financial assistance program included in its Respective Part of the Project, 
in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Association, said 
policies and procedures to be designed to reimburse services providers for the cost of 
providing essential health services to the poorest families living in the Qinghai 
Project Areas free of charge and to define:  (a) the health expenditures to be covered 
by said program; (b) the health service providers and families eligible to participate 
in such program; and (c) the operational guidelines for determination of such 
eligibility and for the operation and management of said program.
