Page  1
 
 
THE INSPECTION PANEL 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
1818 H Street, N.W.
 
Telephone: (202) 458-5200 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433, USA
 
Fax : (202) 522-0916 
 
 
 
IPN REQUEST RQ99/3         
June 18, 1999 
 
NOTICE OF REGISTRATION 
 
Dear Sir: 
 
Re: Request for Inspection
 
– Proposed China Western Poverty Reduction 
Project 
 
 
On June 18, 1999, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection 
(the "Request") dated June 18, 1999 related to the above-mentioned proposed project. The Project 
will be carried out in the Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region in 
China. The project has eight components. The first supports land and household development by 
providing improved agricultural and livestock technology packages--seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, 
plastic mulches, breeding/fattening stock; developing forests; and upgrading agricultural and 
livestock support services. The second component improves irrigation and land by building a new 
dam, renovating an existing dam, and constructing irrigation and drainage systems. The other six 
components 1) improve rural roads, build drinking water supply facilities, and extend electric power 
lines; 2) provide credit to establish non-state owned and household-based rural enterprises; 3) 
organize and place on a voluntary basis surplus rural laborers in off-farm employment; 4) support 
voluntary placement of some of the absolute poor living in mountains and local herders and 
farmers; 5) construct and upgrade basic education and health facilities; and 6) fund institution 
building and project management. 
 
The Requesters claim that if the project is approved and implemented, it will affect the lives and 
livelihoods of Tibetan and Mongolian ethnic peoples who will suffer potentially irreversible harm.  
Specifically, they maintain that the resettlement of the new migrants will directly adversely impact 4,000 
local people and will have indirect impacts on the entire county including a serious risk of escalation of 
ethnic tension and resource conflicts.  The Requesters claim that the potential alleged harm is a result of 
failures or omissions in the preparation and appraisal of the project by Bank staff in violation of the 
following Bank policies: 
 
BP 17.50 on Disclosure of Operational Information 
OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment 
OD 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples 
OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement 
OP 4.09 on Pest Management 
 
 
The Request was submitted by the International Campaign for Tibet (ICT), an U.S. based 
non-governmental organization acting on behalf of people who live in the project area.  ICT claims 
that its representational authority "is based on its long-standing involvement in the project area and 
Page  2
 
 
its mandate to advocate on behalf of the interests of the Tibetan people.  In this capacity, ICT has 
received letters from inside the project area seeking international assistance in raising concerns 
about the devastating impacts of this project on local peoples.  In addition, the Tibetan Government 
in Exile and a Tibetan spiritual center in New York have sought ICT's assistance in filing a claim to 
the World Bank Inspection Panel.  Given the location of this project and the situation faced by local 
people, this claim meets the exceptional circumstances requirement for non-local representation."
1
 
 
 
According to ICT "this project meets the criteria of "exceptional circumstances set forth in 
the Resolution creating the Inspection Panel, such that non-local representation is permissible." 
 
 
Pursuant to paragraph 12 of the Resolution that established the Panel ("the Resolution"), 
foreign representatives may be allowed to act on behalf of affected parties "in the exceptional 
cases where the party submitting the Request contends that appropriate representation is not 
locally available and the Executive Directors agree with this contention at the time they consider 
the Request for Inspection." 
 
 
I am notifying you that I have on June 18, 1999, which is also the date of the dispatch of 
this notice, registered this Request in the Inspection Panel Register. Due to the fact that the 
Panel's "registration" process is often misunderstood, I would like to emphasize that "registration" 
is an administrative procedure established by the Panel and that it implies no judgment whatsoever 
concerning the eligibility of the request. 
 
In accordance with paragraph 18 of the Resolution and paragraphs 2 and 8 of the 
"
Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
", Bank Management is hereby 
notified that it must provide the Panel no later than July 20, 1999 with written evidence that it has 
complied, or intends to comply with the relevant policies and procedures in the design and 
implementation of the above-referenced project.  The subject matter the Management must deal 
with in a response to the Request is set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of the "
Conclusions of the 
Board's Second Review of the Inspection Panel
." 
 
After receiving the Management response, the Panel will, as provided by paragraph 19 of 
the Resolution, “determine whether the Request meets the eligibility criteria set out in paragraphs 
12 to 14 and shall make a recommendation to the Executive Directors as to whether the matter 
should be investigated".
 
 
 
The Request has been assigned IPN Request Number RQ99/3. 
 
 Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
     Jim MacNeill 
 Chairman 
 
  
 
  
TO: 
John Ackerly, President 
                                                          
 
1
 Each of these elements is further explained in Annex B1 to the Request 
Page  3
 
 
 
Bhuchung Tsering, Director 
 
International Campaign for Tibet 
 
1825 K Street, NW 
 Suite 
520 
 
Washington, DC 20006 
 
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn  
 
 
 
 President 
 
 IBRD/IDA 
 Room 
MC12-750 
     
 
[by hand against confirmation] 
  
cc: 
The Executive Directors and Alternates 
IBRD and IDA 
 
 
