                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank


                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                               Report No: ICR0000133


                  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-45010, IDA-32550, JPN-50625)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$46.7 MILLION

                                                  AND A

                                                  CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 73.8 MILLION
                                  (US$99.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                 FOR THE

            GANSU AND INNER MONGOLIA POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT




                                               June 26, 2007




Rural Development, Natural Resources and Environment Sector Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
   their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

           (Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2007)
                 Currency Unit = Renminbi Yuan (RMB)
                      RMB1.00 = US$0.1306
                        US$1.00 = RMB7.659


                        FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 - December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABC         Agricultural Bank of China
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
DID         Difference in difference (analysis)
ERR         Economic Rate of Return
GS          Gansu
ha          hectare
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA         International Development Agency
IM          Inner Mongolia
IP          Inspection Panel
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS         Management Information System
NPV         Non-Project Village
mu          Chinese area measurement (1 mu = 0.07 ha, 1 ha = 15 mu)
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objective
PHRD        Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMO         Project Management Office
PV          Project Village
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
SARS        Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SDR         Special Drawing Right
SSB         State Statistical Bureau
WB          World Bank
WTO         World Trade Organization



    Vice President            James W. Adams, EAPVP

    Country Director          David R. Dollar, EACCF

    Sector Manager            Rahul Raturi, EASRE

    Task Team Leader          Sari K. Söderström, EASRE

                               The People's Republic of China


                Gansu and Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction Project


                   Implementation Completion and Results Report




                                                   Contents



                                                                                                                  Page Number

Data Sheet.................................................................................................... i


Section
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes......................................................... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 9
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................... 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance................................................................ 15
6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................. 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies ............................. 19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................... 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component............................................................................................ 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................... 27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes....................... 29
Annex 5. Borrower's Comments and ICR Summaries ........................................................... 31
Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................. 53

Maps: IBRD 29994R (Gansu), IBRD 29995R (Inner Mongolia)

A. Basic Information

                                                                Gansu and Inner Mongolia
Country               China              Project Name
                                                                Poverty Reduction Project
                                                                IBRD-45010,
Project ID            P046564            L/C Numbers
                                                                IDA-32550
ICR Date              June 26, 2007      ICR Type               Core ICR
                                                                The People's Republic of
Lending Instrument    SIL                Borrower
                                                               China
Original Total
                      US$160.0 million   Disbursed Amount       US$146.93 million
Commitment

Environmental Category B

                          The Gansu Provincial Project Management Office
Implementing Agencies
                          The Inner Mongolia Regional Project Management Office


B. Key Dates

    Process             Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review      04/14/1998      Effectiveness         03/17/2000        03/17/2000
Appraisal           01/07/1999      Restructuring              -            02/12/2001
Approval            06/24/1999      Mid-term Review            -                -
                                    Closing               06/30/2006        06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                  Moderate
Bank Performance                             Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
      Bank                 Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry  Moderately Unsatisfactory Government            Satisfactory
Quality of        Satisfactory               Implementing
Supervision                                  Agencies             Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                 Overall Borrower
Performance       Moderately Satisfactory    Performance          Satisfactory




                                            i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators


  Implementation Performance              Indicators  QAG Assessments (if any)    Rating
Potential Problem Project at any
                                              No      Quality at Entry               -
time
Problem Project at any time                  Yes      Quality of Supervision         -
DO rating before Closing/Inactive
                                         Satisfactory
status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original         Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                83               82
General public administration sector                             9                9
Power                                                            2                2
Roads and highways                                               3                4
Water supply                                                     3                3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                       Primary       Not Applicable
Other rural development                                       Primary          Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                             Secondary        Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President             James W. Adams                   Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director           David R. Dollar                  Yukon Huang
Sector Manager             Rahul Raturi                     Geoffrey B. Fox
Project Team Leader        Sari K. Söderström               Petros Aklilu
ICR Team Leader            Sari K. Söderström                              -
ICR Primary Authors        Sari K. Söderström                              -
                           Weiguo Zhou                                     -
                           Luc Christiaensen                               -




                                                ii

 F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective

The project development objective (PDO) defined in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
to reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in remote and inaccessible villages of Gansu and
Qinghai Provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region1. The project aimed to empower
poor households in the selected poor counties to raise their incomes through increased grain and
livestock production sufficient to meet the basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases,
also to generate a marketable surplus to improve living standards. The establishment of
alternative income-generation activities in poor rural areas, the improvement of rural
infrastructure and the enhanced access to basic social services (such as health and education) was
also anticipated to increase the living standards of poor rural households.

Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) defined in the PAD to monitor the project's progress towards
achievement of the PDO and the project's outputs included: (a) the percentage of the provincial
population below the national poverty line; (b) crop and livestock yield increases; (c) grazing land
management; (d) feed balances; (e) per capita grain production; (f) rates of school enrollment; (g)
visits to health centers; and (h) jobs created. Indicators consistent with Annex 1 of the PAD have
been monitored. Key PDO and outcome indicators as presented below were adjusted at the start
of implementation to enable more effective monitoring.

Revised Project Development Objective

Although the project had a significant change in scope (see Section 1.6), the original PDO of
reducing the incidence of absolute poverty in the project areas remained unchanged.




1The statement of the objective of the Project in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) added
"... through the promotion of environmentally sustainable agricultural and rural development and improvement of
access to infrastructure and basic social services ...." to the PAD definition.



                                                             iii

(a) PDO Indicators

   Indicator           Baseline Value          Original Target Revised Target Actual Value Achieved
                                                    Values             Values          at Completion

 Indicator 1     The reduction in income poverty measured as the net income of the target group in
                 RMB per capita

 Value:           GS 757                       GS 946             GS 1,200        GS 2,028 (2006)
                  IM 1,128                     IM 1,300                           IM 2,237 (2005)
 Date achieved:   January 7, 1999              Feb. 12, 2001      June 30, 2005   June 30, 2006
                 Compared with 1999, the real income growth rate for PV was over 70 percent in Inner
                 Mongolia and close to 60 percent in Gansu.
 Comments:       The actual income increase achieved was 214.4 percent and 172.1 percent of the target
                 value in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, respectively. The actual income increase achieved
                 was 169 percent of the revised target value for Gansu.


 Indicator 2     The reduction in the total number of absolute poor expressed as a percentage of the
                 population below the national poverty line (the poverty headcount rate)

 Value:           GS 27.4 (22.2 in NPV)                                           GS 2.7 (2006)
                  IM 16.7 (18 in NPV)                                             IM 5.4 (2004)
 Date achieved:   January 7, 1999              -                  -               June 30, 2006
                 Compared with 1999, the poverty headcount rate dropped by 11.3 and 24.7 percentage
                 points in Inner Mongolia and Gansu, respectively (compared with 2004 and 2006
 Comments:       respectively). The poverty line in 1999 was RMB498 and 654 per capita in Gansu and
                 Inner Mongolia, respectively, and was increased to RMB650 in 2006 for Gansu and to
                 RMB698 in 2004 for Inner Mongolia.


 Indicator 3     The reduction in food poverty measured as a percentage of the population with
                 grain production below the national poverty line (i.e., below 150 kg per capita)

 Value:           GS 21.1 (17.2 in NPV)                                           GS 7.7 (15.3 in NPV)
                  IM 2.4 (3.5 in NPV)                                             IM 7.6 (7.4 in NPV)
 Date achieved:   January 7, 1999              -                  -               June 30, 2006
                 The increased share of the population with per capita grain production below 150 kg in
                 Inner Mongolia does not imply a negative outcome; it reflects the shift in production
                 from staple grains to higher-value cash crops (see Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2).
 Comments:       This means that households have achieved full subsistence levels and are now pursuing
                 cash-generating activities. (See Intermediate Outcome Indicator 1 which shows the
                 increased per capita grain production, implying improved productivity of the project
                 households.)

G

 GS = Gansu IM = Inner Mongolia
 PV = project villages NPV = non-project villages




                                                    iv

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators

     Indicator        Baseline Value           Original Target        Revised Target         Actual Value at
                                                    Values                 Values              Completion

Indicator 1      An increase in agricultural productivity measured as kg per capita of grain output of the
                 target group

Value:           GS 279                      GS 320                  GS 420               GS 437
                 IM 593                                                                   IM 884
Date achieved:   January 7, 1999             Feb. 12, 2001           June 30, 2005        June 30, 2006
                 The percentage achieved compared with the baseline: IM 149.1 percent and GS 156.6 percent.
Comments:        The percentage achieved compared with the target value: GS 136.6 percent.
                 The percentage achieved compared with the revised target value: GS 104 percent.


Indicator 2      An increase in agricultural productivity measured as cash incomes in RMB per capita
                 from farming in the project areas

Value:           GS 449                                                                   GS 731
                 IM 997                                                                   IM 2,168
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999            -                       -                    June 30, 2006
                 The percentage achieved compared with the baseline: GS 162.8 percent and IM 217.5 percent.
                 Cash income from farming activities (cropping and animal husbandry) is in nominal prices.
                 Farm-gate prices at project completion did not differ significantly from those at appraisal.
Comments:        Food prices declined as a result of China's World Trade Organization (WTO) accession in
                 2001, but began rising in 2003 as a result of increases in world market prices and domestic
                 demand. The increased net agricultural income was a result of enhanced farm productivity in
                 the project area.

Indicator 3      The percentage of PV with access to a road

Value:           GS 85.7                                                                  GS 100 (2006)
                 IM 86                                                                    IM 98 (2004)
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999            -                       -                    June 30, 2006

Comments:        The percentage of villages with road access at the beginning of the project was lower for PV
                 than for NPV. At project completion, the percentage is higher for PV than for NPV.

Indicator 4      The percentage of PV with electricity

Value:           GS 90.5                                                                  GS 100 (2006)
                 IM 96.0                                                                  IM 98 (2004)
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999            -                       -                    June 30, 2006
Comments:        ---


Indicator 5      The percentage of project households located less than 100 m from a source of safe
                 drinking water

Value:           GS 53.9 (51.8 in NPV)                                                    GS 64.8 (64.6 in NPV)
                 IM 77.6 (83.3 in NPV)                                                    IM 95 (85.3 in NPV)
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999            -                       -                    June 30, 2006

Comments:        The access to safe drinking water has varied significantly from year to year depending on the
                 overall water balance in the area (i.e., rain fall and ground water levels).


Indicator 6      The increase in alternative income-generating activities measured as the percentage of
                 households with non-agricultural income

Value:           GS 78.3 (82.1 in NPV)                                                    GS 87.1 (84.3 in NPV)
                 IM 63.8 (68.3 in NPV)                                                    IM 63.8 (63.3 in NPV)
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999            -                       -                    June 30, 2006
                 The number of households participating in off-farm income-generation activities has increased

Comments:        significantly in Gansu. The lower rate in Inner Mongolia is explained by the fact that, on
                 average, most of their income is from animal husbandry in which profitability has increased.
                 As a result, incentives for off-farm work are reduced.




                                                     v

    Indicator         Baseline Value         Original Target        Revised Target         Actual Value at
                                                  Values                Values               Completion

Indicator 7      Environmental improvement measured as incremental established ground coverage in
                 ha, including trees and grassland, and terracing and river embankments

                                           GS 24,798 + 24,103                         GS 31,700 + 23,343 +
Value:                                     IM 25,580 + 3,592                         3,500
                                                                                      IM 48,000 + 4,376
Date achieved:    January 7, 1999          Feb. 12, 2001          -                   June 30, 2006
                 The percentage achieved compared with the target value was (a) in Gansu: 127.8 percent for
Comments:        trees and grassland, and 111.4 percent for terracing and river embankments; and (b) in Inner
                 Mongolia: 187.6 percent for trees and grassland, and 121.8 percent for terracing.

Indicator 8      The percentage of villages in the project areas with health clinics
Value:
Date achieved:
                 As explained in the main text, the Health Services sub-component was cancelled (Sections
                 1.6.4 and 3.2.7). The ICR team, however, wants to share the alarming health indicators in
                 rural China.
Comments:
                         1999     2000     2001     2002      2003    2004
                   PV     57.6     64.1    63.0      63.4      59.8    63.0
                   NPV 69.0        79.3    67.2      62.1      70.4    69.0.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

No.      Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
         Archived                  DO                               IP                   (US$ million)
 1      06/30/1999             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         0.00
 2      12/21/1999             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         0.00
 3      06/29/2000             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                         3.97
 4      12/27/2000             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        20.91
 5      06/28/2001             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        28.41
 6      12/20/2001             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        40.35
 7      06/28/2002             Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                      56.68
 8      12/23/2002             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        70.40
 9      06/30/2003             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        82.82
 10     12/09/2003             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                        94.20
 11     06/07/2004             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       112.38
 12     10/21/2004             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       121.18
 13     06/21/2005             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       135.19
 14     04/17/2006             Satisfactory                    Satisfactory                       143.13


H. Restructuring


                                ISR Ratings
Restructuring      Board              at        Amount Disbursed        Reason for Restructuring & Key
     Date        Approved      Restructuring     at Restructuring
                PDO Change                         (US$ million)                 Changes Made
                                 DO       IP
                                                                       The review by the Inspection Panel

March 14, 2001         -          S       S            23.29           caused the Borrower to drop Qinghai
                                                                       Province from the project.
                                                                       (see paragraphs 1.6.1 and 1.6.2)



                                                    vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.1.1     This project was the third2 in a series of Bank-assisted, targeted poverty reduction
operations in China, supporting the government's Eight-Seven Poverty Reduction Plan (1993).
The project aimed to promote the Bank's overall goal of poverty reduction as articulated in the
1997 report "Rural Development from Vision to Action" which identified China as one of the
focal countries.

1.1.2     The project was designed to be consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for the period 1998-2003 in supporting human resources development. Specifically, the project
was designed to support targeted poverty reduction through selected investments in
environmentally-sustainable agricultural and livestock development, the provision of basic rural
infrastructure and enhanced access to basic education and health services in the poorest regions in
western China. This project was fully in line with the Bank's strategy of shifting resources to
China's interior.

1.1.3     The rationale for Bank support to the project was that: (a) the Bank had significant
experience in addressing poverty in China in the most difficult environments; (b) the Bank's
intervention in provincial poverty reduction activities would demonstrate that public sector
institutions can also be effective when services are needed and delivered horizontally; (c) the
Bank's assistance often leverages additional domestic resources for poor counties; (d) enhanced
knowledge transfer would occur during project preparation and implementation; and (e) the
Bank's involvement would ensure more rigorous project implementation quality.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1     The PDO defined in the PAD was to reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in remote
and inaccessible villages of Gansu and Qinghai Provinces and Inner Mongolia Autonomous
Region3. The project aimed to empower poor households in the selected poor counties to raise
their incomes, through increased grain and livestock production sufficient to meet the basic needs
of food and clothing and, in many cases, also generate a marketable surplus to improve living
standards. The establishment of alternative income-generation activities in poor rural areas, the
improvement of rural infrastructure and enhanced access to basic social services (such as health
and education) was also anticipated to increase the living standards of poor rural households.

1.2.2     Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to monitor the achievement of the PDO and project
outputs defined at the time of appraisal included: (a) the percentage of the provincial population
below the national poverty line; (b) crop and livestock yield increases; (c) grazing land
management; (d) feed balances; (e) per capita grain production; (f) rates of school enrollment; (g)
visits to health centers; and (h) jobs created. The indicators were adjusted at the start of
implementation to enable effective monitoring.




2The project was preceded by the Southwest Poverty Reduction Project and the Qinba Mountains Poverty Reduction
Project.
3The statement of the objective of the Project in Schedule 2 of the DCA added "... through the promotion of
environmentally sustainable agricultural and rural development and improvement of access to infrastructure and basic
social services ...." to the PAD definition.

1.3 Revised PDO

1.3.1     Although the project had a change in scope (see Section 1.6), the original PDO of
reducing the incidence of absolute poverty in the project areas remained unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1      The main project beneficiaries were estimated at appraisal to be about 1.7 million people,
including a large number belonging to ethnic minorities, living in absolute poverty4 in Gansu
(930,000), Inner Mongolia (674,000) and Qinghai (61,800). Although Qinghai Province was
dropped from the project (see Section 1.6) and the targeted number of beneficiaries therefore
declined by about 4 percent, the actual number of beneficiaries at completion was about the same
as the intended number (1.04 million in Gansu and 684,000 in Inner Mongolia).

1.5 Original Components

1.5.1     The project as appraised had eight components. The costs shown here included both
physical and price contingency provisions.

1.5.2     Land and Household Development (US$141.0 million, 45.2 percent of appraisal total
cost). This component, together with the irrigation and land improvement component, was
designed to ensure farmers' food security and increase their incomes by increasing agricultural
output. It consisted of the provision of credit in the form of sub-loans5 to households for
improved agricultural and livestock technology packages (e.g., seeds, fertilizer, plastic mulch and
breeding/fattening livestock), forestry development and agricultural support services.

1.5.3     Irrigation and Land Improvement (US$86.3 million, 27.7 percent of appraisal total
cost). The component was designed to support the enhanced agricultural activities and consisted
of: (a) the construction of a new dam, the renovation of an existing dam, and the construction of
irrigation and drainage systems on 19,200 ha in Qinghai; and (b) the construction of small
irrigation works on 34,050 ha, the terracing of 26,500 ha of slope land, and soil and water
conservation works (mainly terracing) in Gansu and Inner Mongolia.

1.5.4     Rural Infrastructure (US$28.7 million, 9.2 percent of appraisal total cost). The
component aimed to improve the poor's access to transport (roads), drinking water and electricity.
The project planned to construct 216 kilometers (km) of Class III and IV rural roads (providing
access to 289 remote administrative villages), construct drinking water supply facilities to serve
370,000 people in 760 administrative villages, and extend electric power lines to 410
administrative villages.

1.5.5     Rural Enterprises (US$13.6 million, 4.4 percent of appraisal total cost). This
component aimed to link farmers with markets through the provision of credit to establish small
non-state-owned enterprises and to support household-based rural enterprise activities for the
construction of food and fiber processing facilities. No enterprise activities were to take place in




4A survey of selected project counties at the time of project preparation indicated that an average household in the
project areas lived in absolute poverty. It produced a food grain supply adequate to cover household demand for about
six months of the year. For the remaining six months, most households had to borrow to supplement the limited
welfare ration provided by local governments.
5Funds intended for farm-level production-oriented activities (such as crops and animal husbandry) have traditionally
been on-lent to the final beneficiaries (households and/or enterprises) by the local Finance Bureaus. Households
received goods and works but had to sign a loan agreement with the Bureaus. The on-lending terms have, in general,
been commensurate with the IDA credit/IBRD loan terms.



                                                            2

Inner Mongolia, where activities financed under this component were to consist of agricultural
tools and equipment and related training.

1.5.6      Labor Mobility ­ Gansu (US$15.7 million, 5.0 percent of appraisal total cost). This
component was intended to increase the poor's cash incomes by: (a) providing access to off-farm
jobs through the organized voluntary placement of about 65,700 surplus rural laborers in off-farm
employment in and outside Gansu; and (b) supporting Gansu's Labor Bureau to improve the
management and referral services to laborers.

1.5.7      Voluntary Settlement ­ Qinghai (US$6.5 million, 2.1 percent of appraisal total cost).
The voluntary settlement of an estimated 57,800 people was designed to assist poor households to
migrate from highly-degraded mountainous areas with no water resources to newly-irrigated,
highly-productive farm land. Support was to be provided in the form of grants for transport,
housing, fuel and initial subsistence expenses.

1.5.8      Social Sectors (US$8.7 million, 2.8 percent of appraisal total cost). Limited activities
were planned to support social sector infrastructure, mainly in the context of the new resettlers in
Qinghai Province. Activities were to include the construction and up-grading of basic education
and health facilities in Qinghai's new settlement area and in Qinghai's "move-out" counties, and
the improvement of selected basic health clinics in Gansu and Inner Mongolia.

1.5.9      Institutional Building and Project Management (US$10.6 million, 3.4 percent of
appraisal total cost). The component was designed to support project implementation and to
strengthen the project provinces' capacity to implement national poverty reduction programs.
The component aimed: (a) to establish project management offices at provincial, prefecture and
county levels, and township and village work stations; (b) to launch a pilot integrated poverty
reduction management program in one county (banner) in Inner Mongolia to coordinate multi-
sectoral poverty reduction activities; (c) to implement the project activities under a single
management structure; and (d) to establish systems to monitor and evaluate the outcomes of the
project and to disseminate the results.

1.6 Revised Components

1.6.1      The Qinghai Component . In 1998, the International Campaign for Tibet made a
                                            6                                                            7

complaint to the Bank's Inspection Panel (the Panel) concerning the activities to be carried out in
Qinghai Province under the then-named Western Poverty Reduction Project. The complaint was
reviewed by the Panel and the Bank's Board of Executive Directors, and was eventually
investigated as the first-ever Panel case with a field inspection. After a long investigation, which
was concluded in April 2000 (i.e., after the loan and credit supporting the project had been
approved by the Bank's Board in June 1999), the Panel concluded that the project preparation for
the Qinghai Component was "in apparent violation of several provisions" of the Bank's
operational policies8. Subsequently, the Bank proposed to the Borrower an ambitious and
extremely costly set of remedial recommendations that could have allowed the Qinghai



6In the DCA, Schedule 2, each Project Province is described as a "Part" of the project and some or all of the eight
components of the project were to be implemented in each Province. However, at some point all of the project's
activities in Qinghai province (Part C of the Project Description) confusingly began to be referred to as the "Qinghai
Component" and this terminology is used in the Panel's report and in the documentation supporting the amendments to
the legal agreements.
7A USA-based advocacy non-governmental organization.
8OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment); OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples); OD 4.30 (Involuntary Resettlement); OP 4.09
(Pest management); OP10.00 (Investment Lending: Identification to Board presentation); and BP 17.50 (Disclosure of
Information).



                                                            3

Component to move forward. Instead of engaging in a lengthy process of remedial studies (that
would not have guaranteed that the Qinghai Component could eventually move forward), the
Borrower decided to drop the Qinghai Component in order to allow activities in Gansu and Inner
Mongolia to proceed.

1.6.2    A formal project restructuring was carried out in 20019 and the Qinghai Component was
removed. The project was renamed the Gansu and Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction Project.
With a change in scope, but with an unchanged objective to alleviate absolute poverty, the PDO
was not revised.

1.6.3    Gansu Labor Mobility Component. In the context of the restructuring discussions in
2000-2001, the Borrower requested two additional adjustments. The first was to drop the Gansu
Labor Mobility Component. This was justified by a comparison of the costs and benefits of the
Bank's financial contribution to the component. At that time, the implementation environment
for this component was perceived to have an exceptionally high reputational risk and the
supervision costs for the Bank and the Borrower for this component were estimated to become
prohibitive. In addition, Gansu's own existing labor mobility programs were proceeding in
parallel, seemingly in a satisfactory manner.

1.6.4    Social Sector Services Component. The second adjustment was to cancel the public
health service activities under the Social Sector Services Component10. At the time when the
Loan and Credit finally became effective, the government's strategy on providing rural health
services and corresponding funding allocations had changed significantly compared with when
the project was prepared, rendering the limited           11activities planned for village health clinics
difficult to implement. Basically, it can be surmised that the limited funds for the planned health
sector activities under the project (which were to originate from the government's health
programs at the village levels) would not have materialized.

1.6.5    The Bank funds originally allocated to activities in Qinghai Province were cancelled and
US$19.075 million equivalent of IDA funds were reallocated to Gansu and Inner Mongolia,
where additional project counties were included in the project. The following project components
remained, with some changes from the original formulation:

(a) Land and Household Development

(b) Irrigation and Land Improvement

(c) Rural Infrastructure

(d) Rural Enterprises

(e) Institution Building and Project Management

1.7 Other Changes

1.7.1    A number of adjustments in project activities took place during project implementation.
Instead of a formal mid-term review, continuous adjustments were made in detailed project
activities to align with the rapidly-changing markets in China during the project implementation



9The amendments were approved by the Bank's Board of Directors on an "absence of objections" basis on March 14,
2001. The "Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement", the "Agreement Amending Project Agreement",
and the "Agreement Amending Loan Agreement" were counter-signed (and entered into effect) on March 27, 2003.
10Education-related activities were already canceled as they were going to take place only in Qinghai.
11Less than US$5.5 million was allocated for the Health sub-component for both Gansu and Inner Mongolia - all from
counterpart funds.



                                                           4

period that coincided with China's entry into the WTO and consequent further opening of internal
and external markets. Such adjustments took place mainly within the Land and Household
Development Component and consisted (for example) of a reduction in grain production (after
subsistence level was reached and cash income generation became more of a priority), the
introduction of greenhouse-based production, and the increase in pen-fed animal husbandry.
Adjustments were also needed to mitigate problems caused by adverse climate conditions. Both
Gansu and Inner Mongolia experienced serious droughts during project implementation affecting
the outcomes of the project and requiring adjustments to place emphasis on less drought-sensitive
activities (e.g., animal husbandry and greenhouses).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

2.1.1    There were no notable shortcomings in the preparation of the Gansu and Inner Mongolia
Components of the project. Project objectives were set clearly in the context of the CAS and the
government's strategy for poverty reduction. The broad objective of poverty reduction allowed
for sufficient flexibility to adjust the specific activities to changing circumstances and unexpected
events but was focused enough to target a specific segment of the population, the absolute poor.

2.1.2    Thorough work by the Borrower supported project design and feasibility assessment
together with lessons learned from the previous Bank-financed targeted poverty reduction
projects. Comprehensive social assessments, consultations among potential beneficiaries and
environmental assessments informed the feasibility studies and implementation plans. Lessons
learned from previous projects included: (a) the importance of a flexible and phased
implementation approach; (b) the importance of building on existing institutions; and (c) the need
to provide input financing to poor, remote rural areas with limited or no access to other financing.
These lessons were all incorporated into the design.

2.1.3    Strong government commitment to poverty reduction facilitated the preparation of the
project. Leadership at all levels paid great attention to the design ensuring technical guidance to
the activities.

2.1.4    No Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of the project's quality at entry was
conducted.

2.2 Implementation

2.2.1    No QAG review of the project's supervision quality was conducted.

2.2.2    A number of factors contributed to the successful implementation of the project. Once
implementation started and detailed implementation arrangements were established, a number of
specific actions were taken in order to further aid in achieving the project's poverty reduction
objective including: (a) promotion of participatory village development planning which would
empower the project households to define the detailed project activities; and (b) encouraging the
integration of relevant government programs with the Bank's operation.

2.2.3    A strong positive impact on the project's implementation, supporting empowerment of
households in the project villages in their development planning, was a Japan Policy and Human
Resources Development Fund (PHRD) Implementation Grant obtained in 2003. This Grant
supported the most innovative aspects of the project, including participatory village development
planning and annual planning. Most of the PHRD-financed activities were very successful. The
support for participatory village development planning produced positive results through high-
quality training material, training of trainers and training at village levels. The impact of this



                                                     5

additional support went beyond the project, and the Poverty Reduction Offices in both Gansu and
Inner Mongolia now utilize participatory village development planning in their own program
villages in order to determine the most suitable and farmer-identified poverty reduction
interventions.

2.2.4    External Factors. Four important external factors affected project implementation.

(a) China's continued rapid economic growth and liberalization of markets. The country's
strong economic growth and market changes affected the project positively but this fast-paced
development put enormous pressures on the project to be flexible and quick to adjust to changing
markets. While numerous adjustments in market-sensitive project activities (in both crops and
livestock) were made during project implementation in response to changing conditions, it was a
challenge as the local governments and project offices did not have the experience or the
expertise to analyze market signals adequately and advise farmers accordingly. Consequently,
some of the project activities were not as profitable as anticipated (e.g., certain tree crops and
Chinese herbs) and others were extremely profitable (e.g., greenhouse-based production).

(b) Inspection Panel review of the Qinghai Component. Even though some limited,
retroactively-financed activities took place in Gansu and Inner Mongolia before the effectiveness
of the Loan and Credit, the Panel review of the Qinghai Component delayed the start-up of the
project by about two years. Both provinces worked hard to accommodate the reallocated funds
from Qinghai to new counties, preparing additional feasibility studies and assessments. As a
result of both provinces' solid institutional arrangements for project implementation, they were
able to catch up the lost implementation time in the new counties and complete the project
without an extension of the closing dates of the Loan or Credit.

(c) Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). The outbreak of SARS in 2003 stopped
movement between and within provinces. Most Bank-supported operations were slowed down as
contractors and project staffs in the provinces were unable to travel to counties. County
personnel were to a large extent called in to support the control of the outbreak. Both provinces,
with their extensive networks of poverty offices at the lower levels, were able to keep the
momentum and, immediately after the outbreak, continue the project and make up for lost time.

(d) Climatic Conditions. An increasing frequency of droughts affected project activities
negatively, requiring flexibility and quick adaptation in the detailed project activities. The project
attempted to mitigate the impact of droughts by quickly allowing for adjustments to less drought-
sensitive agricultural activities, such as animal husbandry (where feed could be purchased),
greenhouse-based production and increased investments in water supply.

2.2.5    Internal Factors. The main internal factor having had a negative impact on project
implementation in the beginning was the lack of timely availability of bridge funding and
counterpart funds (a common problem in Bank-funded rural development projects in China).
According to practice in China, Bank loan proceeds are disbursed to local levels based on
reimbursement requests, requiring the local governments to provide the necessary bridge funding.
Although project budget approvals should (in theory) be in place by the end of each fiscal year
for the following fiscal year, approvals are frequently delayed. The project attempted to mitigate
this at the design stage by requiring that annual counterpart fund budgets be prepared
disaggregated by the source of funding. However, when one of the major expected sources of
counterpart funding, the Agricultural Bank of China (ABC), pulled out from project areas in




                                                   6

response to a policy change12 made by the central government, the whole counterpart fund plan
basically fell apart, requiring new approaches.

2.2.6    The availability of initial financial resources to get project activities started before
reimbursements from Bank funds began to arrive at lower-level project accounts was a major
problem during the first two years of the project and caused significant delays in implementation.
Most counties could not provide the bridge funding and had to struggle to find start-up financing
from local banks and/or to delay payments to suppliers and contractors. In some cases, the lack
of start-up funds caused "over-reporting" with the purpose of initiating reimbursements ­ which
then, eventually, could be invested in "real" activities. The discovery of this practice in one of
the provinces caused the project to be rated as "unsatisfactory" during supervision in 2002. The
issue of bridge funding and counterpart funding was basically resolved when both the Gansu and
the Inner Mongolia Provincial/Regional Poverty Reduction Offices fully integrated the project
into their own poverty-reduction programs, thus ensuring a steady flow of funding. At project
completion, total counterpart funding from both Gansu's and Inner Mongolia's Poverty
Reduction Offices significantly exceeded the anticipated amounts, more than making up for
short-falls from other sources.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1    The project was supported by a high quality, rigorous, survey-based M&E system
including both a baseline and a control group. The indicators originally articulated in the PAD
were adjusted to make them more precise and monitorable. Specific monitorable output and
outcome indicators were selected for each project component. A sample of 1,500 households
from 150 villages in 15 counties was surveyed annually during the period 1999-2004 (eight
counties in Inner Mongolia; seven in Gansu; ten villages in each county consisting of six project
and four non-project villages). Together this resulted in a six-year panel of 1,500 households.
The surveys and survey analysis was carried out by the national-level State Statistical Bureau
(SSB) in close cooperation with its provincial and county branches and yielded high-quality data.
A comprehensive Poverty Monitoring Report was published annually during the period 1999-
2005, tracking progress on output and outcome indicators and other socio-economic indicators
across project and non-project villages. These reports greatly facilitated the discussion of the
welfare contribution of the project at completion. In addition, the survey-based nature of the
system and the implementation by an experienced independent agency lends credibility to the
reported results. Unfortunately, despite their important contributions to the monitoring and
evaluation of the project, the data bases generated by the SSB and the Project Management
Offices (PMOs) were seriously underutilized, with lost opportunities to inform implementation of
the project.

2.3.2    In addition to the M&E system, separate Management Information Systems (MISs) were
set up in both Gansu and Inner Mongolia PMOs to monitor the implementation progress of the
project, to track outputs and to track sub-loans to households for the activities under the Land and
Household Development Component. With the help of the PHRD implementation grant, the
Inner Mongolia PMO further computerized its system. While the computerized system became
functional only in 2004, it still greatly facilitated the completion of the project, in particular the
monitoring of loan reimbursement to households. The PMO indicated that it intends to use the
computerized MIS also in the Poverty Reduction Office's own programs.



12The ABC was expected to contribute to counterpart funds by lending to households and rural enterprises. During
project implementation, ABC's lending strategy changed and it subsequently ceased lending to farmers completely,
focusing only on large- and medium-size enterprise lending.



                                                         7

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1    The project triggered the Bank's safeguard policies on environment, pest management,
resettlement (land acquisition) and indigenous people. Limited land acquisition took place for the
rural roads in Gansu. Satisfactory reports were provided to the Bank detailing compensation
procedures complying with the land acquisition framework that was prepared for the project.
Beneficiaries' participation manuals guided the participation process of ethnic minorities in the
project.

2.4.2    Environment. The main environmental issues that the Bank's supervision team focused
on were: (a) environmental reporting; (b) pesticide utilization; (c) pollution from plastic mulch;
and (d) feed balances.

(a)      Reporting. While the environmental impacts of the project were mainly positive, there
were difficulties in obtaining regular reports on the subject (an issue that was noted in supervision
aide memoires). Regular reports were provided on potential problem areas such as water table
levels (in Inner Mongolia), pest management, feed balances and utilization of plastic mulch. At
completion, a full survey was carried out on the environmental contribution of the project
documenting the increased plantation area of annual and perennial crops and tree coverage in the
project areas, which significantly contributed to increased water retention and reduced soil
erosion.

(b)      Pesticide Use. In regard to herbicides and pesticides, while the project did not finance
such inputs the farmers use them in their production. The project monitored the usage of such
inputs, specifically reporting utilization of products lacking World Health Organization approval.
The project also developed and provided training to farmers in the proper use of appropriate
herbicides and pesticides and discouraged the use of unapproved products.

(c)      Plastic Mulch. The project financed plastic mulch as an input for cropping. Early on in
project implementation, it was noted that large quantities of plastic mulch (project financed and
non-project financed) were left behind on the fields, leading to what is called "white pollution."
The project started monitoring the collection of used plastic mulch and requiring regular clean-up
by project counties.

(d)      Feed Balances. During project preparation there was a concern that the project could
contribute to over-grazing in project areas, especially in Inner Mongolia if careful monitoring and
remedial measures were not practiced. Each project grazing county (banner) in Inner Mongolia
regularly prepared feed balances for the Bank's review. Early in project implementation a
national grazing ban was imposed by the central government as a result of continued serious
grassland degradation in China's western provinces that was increasing the frequency of
sandstorms. The grazing ban meant that no natural grazing was permitted and livestock was
required to be pen fed. Feed balance became more of an economic issue than an environmental
one. This had a positive impact on the project's incentives to improve the technical extension
services in order to transfer more knowledge on farm economics and nutrional animal feed
balance as opposed to a quantity-based feed balance. More generally, the pen feeding of livestock
improved pasture management, and the use of crop residues for forage preparation improved the
environmental efficiency of farming systems.

2.4.3    Financial Management. Financial management caused a number of challenges early in
project implementation, drawing detailed attention from every mission. Irregularities were
discovered during supervision missions and through audits which were carefully reviewed by
Bank financial management specialists and followed up by every mission. Such irregularities
included "over-reporting" of activities, misuse of funds from the Special Account for payment of
interest and/or commitment fees, and use of project funds for non-project activities. The



                                                  8

discovery of "over-reporting" of project activities in one of the provinces caused the project to be
rated as "unsatisfactory" at supervision in 2002. The findings of that mission were taken very
seriously by the provincial government, resulting in disciplinary actions and demotions for
involved leaders and individuals. All findings were addressed and corrected, and the scale of
project progress reporting was adjusted accordingly. The findings of this mission led to an
immediate improvement of the availability of counterpart funds and bridge funds for the project.
In general, all instances of irregularities were noted in aide memoires and followed closely until
resolution.

2.5 Post-Completion Operation

2.5.1    Post-completion operation of poverty reduction activities and the utilization of techniques
introduced through this project (e.g., participatory village development) are well ensured through
the integration of the project's activities into the provinces' regular poverty reduction programs.
Such integration ensures the sustainability of project institutions and continued efforts in multi-
sectoral poverty reduction programs at the grassroots levels. Bank-financed follow-up projects
focusing even more on community-driven development are now being implemented and further
developed in other places in China.

2.5.2    The main challenge in post-completion operation lies in obtaining repayment of sub-
loans by project beneficiaries. Institutional arrangements for sub-loan collection vary between
the provinces and among the different counties. A variety of collection systems is in place
through local Finance Bureaus, lower-level Poverty Offices and local financial intermediaries
functioning as collection agents in return for a fee. Sub-loan collection and its monitoring will be
a challenge in Gansu in particular as no centralized arrangements have been made to ensure either.
In Inner Mongolia, a sub-loan collection monitoring system is in place and can be used to monitor
post-completion operation.

2.5.3    In the meantime, the Bank is intensively discussing with the government how to proceed
with the financing of income-generating activities in future projects. It is clear that the system
that has been in place for on-lending funds to beneficiaries through Finance Bureaus has become
outdated. Collection rates on sub-loans are, in general, quite low and the selection of the most
profitable project activities by local government entities is a challenge.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1    The project remains consistent with the Bank's new Country Partnership Strategy 2006-
2010 for China by aiming to reduce poverty, inequality and social exclusion through promoting
sustainable income increase in rural areas. The design of the project is fully consistent with the
government's 11th five-year plan13 and the 2005, 2006 and 2007 "Document No. 1" issued by the
State Council that all focus on the need to consolidate and intensify support to farmers and to
agriculture. The project objectives remain highly relevant to the government's thrust to construct
a "new socialist countryside14," through targeted support to the poorest areas and empowering the
poor in taking part in local development decisions through various forms of participation.




13The plan covers economic areas and also those concerning people's lives, social development and the environment.
14The concept of building a "new socialist countryside" incorporates investments in infrastructure, health, education,
and social development, and the use of a grassroots participation process.



                                                           9

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1    The PDO ­ to reduce absolute poverty in the project areas ­ was met. The project's
targeting of the poorest villages was successful. The M&E shows that, compared with non-
project villages, the project villages at the outset of the project had more backward rural
infrastructure and social services, more adverse natural conditions and a larger number of
absolute poor households. The targeting of the poorest households within the poor villages was
also good.

3.2.2    The average poverty head count rate in project villages declined from 22 percent in 1999
to 8.2 percent in 2004. In the project areas of Inner Mongolia, the poverty rate declined from
16.7 percent in 1999 to 5.4 percent in 2004, while in the project areas of Gansu the reduction in
the poverty rate was even more significant ­ from 24.7 percent in 1999 to 2.7 percent in 2005.

3.2.3    In addition, the project aimed to "empower" the project households to raise their incomes.
This objective was also reached. As the "feeding and clothing" problem (i.e., absolute poverty)
was largely resolved, households started to focus on increasing their cash income-generation
activities through cropping and, increasingly, through animal husbandry. This was reflected in
the increasing use of farm land for the production of animal fodder. The net per capita income in
project villages increased by RMB750 to RMB2,237 in the project areas of Inner Mongolia
(2005) and to RMB2,028 in the project areas of Gansu (2006). The project's per capita income
targets were RMB1,300 for Inner Mongolia and RMB946 and RMB1,200 for Gansu (for the
original counties and the new counties added after the cancellation of the Qinghai Component,
respectively). A more detailed discussion as to how much of the reported welfare gains and
income increases could reasonably be attributed to the project is provided in Section 3.5.
Empowerment was achieved mainly through the introduction of participatory village
development planning where the project households could take part in forming the detailed
development decisions affecting them.

3.2.4    The project also aimed to increase the living standards of the project households by
promoting alternative-income generation activities, improving rural infrastructure and enhancing
access to basic social services. In this context, the project's legal agreements emphasized
"environmentally sustainable" agriculture and rural development. The environmental
sustainability of the activities are reflected in the increase of terraced land (by about 21,783 ha)
and increased areas for tree crops and shelter belts (by about 72,275 ha) and perennial forage, all
greatly contributing to soil and water conservation.

3.2.5    The project also improved rural infrastructure in the project areas. At the completion of
the project, close to 100 percent of project villages have road access compared with about 90
percent of non-project villages. Through participatory village development planning, the
originally planned quantity (km) of roads was increased; more importantly, the quality of the
roads built was much higher than originally planned (responding to a higher than anticipated
utilization rate and to the villagers' wishes). About 85 percent of project households now have
access to safe drinking water at a distance of less than 100 meters compared with about 66
percent at the outset of the project. The rate of project village access to electricity is now about
98 percent compared with about 90 percent in 1999.

3.2.6    As the Labor Mobility Component in Gansu was cancelled, the project did not greatly
support provision of alternative employment opportunities except through the rural enterprise
activities in Gansu that created about 4,442 new jobs in the project counties. The proportion of
off-farm income was monitored as part of the M&E system, confirming at project completion that
Gansu's own labor mobility activities indeed went successfully ahead without the Bank's
involvement. The proportion of households with additional off-farm income increased from
about 70 percent in project villages in 1999 (compared with 75 percent in non-project



                                                    10

households), to over 75 percent in 2004 in project villages slightly surpassing the percentage in
non-project villages.

3.2.7     Even though the social services activities were cancelled, school enrollment rates in
project villages kept increasing annually, reaching about 97 percent in 2004 for children 7-15
years-old; this was mainly the result of the increase in household incomes. The enrollment rate
surpassed the rate achieved in non-project villages (about 93 percent in 2004). Unfortunately, the
progress in basic health services did not have the same rate of improvement. Most of the
indicators, such as the availability of health facilities and the number of qualified health workers,
deteriorated. At the outset of the project (1999), about 60 percent of project villages had health
clinics. By 2004, this rate had decreased by about 4 percentage points. The percentage of project
villages with qualified health workers dropped from about 85 percent in 2002 to below 80 percent
in 2004. Whether it was a right or wrong decision to drop the Health sub-component from the
project is difficult to say even with the benefit of hindsight. However, in view of the daunting
problems facing the sector, it is unlikely that the very limited funding originally planned for the
activities ­ to be financed exclusively through counterpart funds ­ would have been able to make
an impact on the negative trend that is currently occurring in the health sector in China's rural
areas.

3.3 Efficiency

3.3.1     The economic rate of return (ERR) at project completion is estimated at 18.7 percent for
the project as a whole, 17.7 percent in Gansu and 20.0 percent in Inner Mongolia. The ex post
ERR is comparable to the ERR estimated at appraisal for Inner Mongolia and somewhat lower for
Gansu for reasons elaborated in Annex 3. Annex 3 provides a comparison of the ERRs of the
project components at appraisal and completion. The benefit of separate calculations of a
financial rate of return was considered negligible as markets in China are now well integrated,
and financial and economic prices are well aligned.

3.3.2     Overall, the ERR estimates suggest robust returns to the project's investments, though
sensitivity analysis implies that success critically depends on a small number of activities. In
particular, the Land and Household Development Component (which also accounts for the
investment in irrigation and land improvement) made up 75 percent and 81 percent of the overall
project investment in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, respectively. In each province, three activities15
under this component make up around 40 percent of the total reported investment and the success
of these three activities is critical for the overall success of the project. The ERR of the Land and
Household Development Component is simulated to fluctuate between 11-28 percent in Gansu
and between 10-28 percent in Inner Mongolia, given a simultaneous 10 percent decrease/increase
of the gross revenues of these three activities (resulting from output price or yield changes). A 25
percent increase in the labor cost for these three activities yields an ERR of 12 percent and 15
percent in Gansu and Inner Mongolia, respectively. By way of reference, wages in Inner
Mongolia doubled during the project period.

3.3.3     While these rates of return remain at acceptable levels even when prices decline, they
also underscore that the profitability of the project's investments vary substantially with the
evolution of product and factor markets. They further highlight the critical importance of
effective farming and animal husbandry to ensure sustained benefits. The less-productive farmers
with a limited coping capacity are vulnerable to fluctuations in the product and factor markets.




15Plastic mulch corn cultivation, ewe-raising and pig-fattening in Gansu; and virus-free potato cultivation, ewe-raising
and fat-tailed sheep-raising in Inner Mongolia.



                                                          11

Future poverty projects could include modules to help vulnerable farmers cope with adverse
natural, economic or health shocks to prevent them from falling back into poverty.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

3.4.1   The PDO was met and the efficiency achieved is satisfactory. Positive poverty impacts,
gender aspects and social development were reported.

3.4.2   While the project was designed by the provinces almost ten years ago, its objectives
remain highly relevant both to the government's current plans to construct a "new socialist
country-side" and to the Bank's approach to reduce poverty in Western China. It is difficult in
China's rapid growth environment to determine exactly how much of the benefits can be
attributed to the project as opposed to the overall economic growth (see section below). While
the project scope changed somewhat, the total number of absolute poor beneficiaries remained the
same and at completion the efficiency of the project investments reached the expected high level.
In view of these achievements, the overall outcome of the project is rated as "Satisfactory."

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

3.5.1   Poverty. Dramatic improvements in household welfare and poverty rates were recorded.
In the project villages, average per capita incomes increased by 78 percent and the poverty
headcount dropped by 14 percentage points. While incomes increased even more in Inner
Mongolia, poverty declined faster in Gansu (albeit starting from a 10.7 percentage point higher
base). While significant improvements in poverty reduction were achieved compared with
Chinese poverty thresholds, a large portion of the project beneficiaries continue to live below the
World Bank's poverty line of US$1 per day (equivalent to about RMB2,800 per capita per year).

Table 1. Net per capita income and headcount poverty in project and non-project
           villages, 1999-2004

                           Gansu                  Inner Mongolia                Total Project
                          Non-                        Non-                         Non-
                Project project Difference Project project Difference Project project Difference
 Net annual income per capita (RMB)
 1999              757     989      232      1168     1235         67      955     1108      153
 2004            1256     1394      138      2204     2015       -189     1705     1673       -31
 Difference      7499      405       94      1036      780        256      750      565      184
 Poverty Headcount (percent)

 1999            27.4     20.7       6.7      16.7    14.9        1.8     22.2     18.0       4.2
 2004            10.8     12.4      -1.6       5.4      3.7       1.7      8.2      8.5      -0.3
 Difference      16.6      8.3       8.3      11.3    11.2        0.1     14.0      9.5       4.5

3.5.2   However, caution must be taken when attributing these significant improvements only to
the project. While data limitations force most project evaluations to be based on either a "before-
and after-project" comparison or a "with- and without-project" comparison, proper evaluation
requires that the changes in the welfare indicators of interest before and after the project be
corrected for the changes which would have happened in the absence of the project (i.e., a




                                                 12

"difference in difference" - DID - evaluation). Such a correction is especially important in a
rapidly expanding economy such as China's.

3.5.3      Average net per capita income increased by about RMB565 in the non-project villages
and about RMB750 in the project villages, implying that the net increase in income per capita
attributable to the project was RMB184 (about US$23)16. Similarly, the poverty headcount in the
non-project villages declined by 9.5 percentage points compared with 14 percentage points in the
project villages, a net decrease of 4.5 percentage points attributable to the project. However,
while the project accounted for a RMB256 increase in average per capita incomes in Inner
Mongolia, almost no poverty reduction could be attributed to the project. In Gansu, on the other
hand, where average incomes have now reached the level that obtained in Inner Mongolia at the
outset of the project, the net contribution of the project to poverty reduction was estimated to be
8.3 percentage points although the net increase in average per capita incomes was only RMB94.

3.5.4      Nevertheless, the project impact on beneficiaries is likely to have been larger than that
indicated in Table 1 because the households in project villages were poorer, especially in Gansu,
compared to the non-project villages. As a result, investments undertaken in non-project villages
may not have generated the same reduction in poverty. Moreover, the use of project funds
complemented (rather than offset) other investments in the project villages as indicated by the
officials. The project may well have contributed more than the DID estimate of 4.5 percentage
points. The "before and after" estimate (14 percentage points) and the DID estimate (4.5
percentage points) should, therefore, be considered as the upper and lower bounds of the
estimated impact. A larger poverty reduction was observed in Gansu, while in Inner Mongolia
the project helped the beneficiaries to increase their per capita incomes to levels exceeding the
average in non-project villages.

3.5.5      The ICR analysis concludes that even though poverty drastically declined in both project
provinces, the amount which could be attributed to the project appear substantially less17. The
ICR analysis demonstrates that it is critical to learn more about the impact and effectiveness of
poor area programs in reducing poverty, and more in-depth multivariate analysis of the SSB data
for this project is called for: (a) to assess more accurately the actual contribution of the project
(the number of people lifted out of poverty per dollar spent); (b) to understand better the forces
behind the strong decline in poverty and the increase in incomes among households in remote
rural areas (both project and non-project); and (c) to understand how these contributions and
forces differed across Gansu and Inner Mongolia, two provinces at different levels of
development.

3.5.6      Gender Aspects. While the project focused on enhancing household welfare in general,
it also helped women and girls in the project area to improve their well-being. To increase the
likelihood that men and women would benefit equally from the project, women were consulted
during the development of the different farm models of the Land and Household Development
component and the gender division of labor was taken into account in the choice and
development of these activities.




16 An income increase of US$23 equivalent annually is largely consistent with the ERR. However, the ERR measures
the return on capital. The return to the beneficiaries is reduced by the interest they have to pay on the capital they use.
It is possible that the US$23 equivalent of income increase is an over-estimate.
17 These results are similar in magnitude to those reported by Ravallion and Chen (2005) for the Southwest Poverty
Reduction Project. They also found a limited impact of the project on consumption and on the incidence of "$1 a day"
poverty at the end of the project despite an average increase in income of about 20 percent. Fan and Rao (2006) using
different econometric techniques found similarly limited effects of poor area programs in China and India.



                                                             13

3.5.7    There were two tangible improvements of women's well-being. First, the construction of
drinking water facilities helped reduce the work load for women. In the project villages, the
number of households within 100 meters of the water source increased by 14.5 percentage points
(from 66.8 percent in 1999 to 81.3 percent in 2004). In the non-project villages, this increase was
7.2 percentage points, a net contribution of the project of 7.3 percentage points. Second, gender
inequality in schooling outcomes was reduced substantially. The ratio of school completion rates
at age15 for girls and boys increased from 0.78 in 1999 to 1.01 in 2004 in the project villages and
from 0.85 to 0.97 in the non-project villages, a net increase in the ratio of 0.11. While this does
not prove causality, schooling expenses during the project implementation period were substantial,
and the overall increase in household income is likely to have contributed to the decline in the
gender gap in schooling outcomes. Disaggregated gender outcome indicators would have
allowed a better gender-specific analysis of project outcomes.

3.5.8    Social Development. A variety of ethnic minorities benefited highly from the project.
Ethnic minorities were especially "over-represented" in project participation in Gansu, where 78
percent of the project counties' minority households participated in the project compared with an
overall project participation rate of 19 percent for all households in the project counties. This
"over-representation" resulted from an explicit targeting of minority counties in the selection of
project counties. The ethnic minority population makes up about 12.5 percent of all households
in Gansu.

3.5.9    In Inner Mongolia, ethnic minority households (mainly Mongol) were slightly under-
represented in project participation. About 11 percent of the minority households participated in
the project compared with an overall participation rate of 13 percent for all households in the
project counties. The ethnic minority population makes up about 16.5 percent18 of all households
in Inner Mongolia.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

3.5.10 In general, substantial institutional strengthening took place at various levels of the
Poverty Reduction Office structure, starting from the provincial levels and occurring all the way
down to the villages. The Poverty Reduction Offices' own project preparation, implementation,
supervision and monitoring practices were reportedly changed as a result of the project. Both
provinces now utilize supervision methods similar to those of the Bank in the supervision of their
own programs. Inner Mongolia has adapted the computerized MIS that was developed under this
project for its own programs. Various types of management training (e.g., project management,
accounting and financial management, and monitoring) significantly increased the capacity of the
leadership and staff of the project, so much that frequent promotions of project staff turned into a
problem during implementation requiring project leading groups intervention to stabilize project
staff.

3.5.11 The main institutional achievements of the project were: (a) the introduction of intensive
beneficiary participation in project implementation and participatory village development
planning; and (b) the integration of the project activities into the local governments' own
development programs. While the introduction of participatory approaches was not initially
included in the project design, both provinces introduced participation as a tool to facilitate
achievement of project objectives. While the detailed activities planned for the early targeted
villages were not designed in a particularly participatory manner, the degree of participation
increased over time, with the latest targeted villages' activities being fully determined through
participatory village development planning (resource mapping, poverty mapping, provision of



1815 percent of all households in Inner Mongolia are Mongol households.



                                                       14

funding envelope, activity prioritization, and implementation). This was evidenced by the Bank's
supervision missions; videos, booklets and manuals produced by the provinces, and national
recognition of Gansu Poverty Reduction Office as a leader in this area. The concept of
participatory village level development planning was eventually streamlined into the project (with
Gansu being better at it than Inner Mongolia). Currently, both provinces utilize this tool in their
internal poverty reduction programs.

3.5.12 By integrating the project activities into the local governments' own programs and
activities, the project was able to demonstrate the benefits of integrated project funding and
implementation at the grassroots level (e.g., avoiding duplication of efforts, maximizing funds
utilization and a wider absorption of lessons learned).


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

4.1.1    The risk to development outcome is considered to be "moderate". The government's
commitment to reduce poverty further and to construct a "new socialist countryside" continues to
be one of the most important policy agendas. Increasing funding is being channeled to the
Western areas, including large sums being allocated for village level development and
infrastructure.

4.1.2    The main risk posed to the development outcome is that households that have been able
to climb over the poverty line may be pulled back into poverty by natural disasters (mainly
drought in the project areas) or sickness. The households' vulnerability to natural disasters was
mitigated in the project through production diversification (including emphasis on pen-fed animal
husbandry), training, and the provision of reliable water supply for household use and irrigation.

4.1.3    There is also a risk of changes in the market incentives. This risk is considered to be low
for the project households as the project emphasized market risk mitigation through production
diversification.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.1.1    No QAG "quality at entry" review of the project has been carried out. The IP reviewed
the Qinghai Component of the project and concluded that its preparation was "in apparent
violation of several provisions" of the Bank's operational policies. With this background, it is
assumed that the Qinghai Component alone would be rated as unsatisfactory. However, based on
the ICR team's assessment, the Gansu and Inner Mongolia Components were thoroughly
prepared and were fully consistent with the government's poverty reduction strategy and the
Bank's CAS. The large preparation and appraisal teams consisted of experienced Bank
specialists covering all required areas of expertise, including environment and social. In view of
the IP review's findings, and assuming an unsatisfactory rating for the Qinghai Component, the
Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry for the whole project must therefore be
considered to have been "moderately unsatisfactory."




                                                 15

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

5.1.2    No QAG "quality of supervision" review of the project has been carried out. The Bank's
performance during the implementation of the project is rated as having been satisfactory.
Significant capital and human resources were put into the project launch and to get the project
implementation started smoothly. The approach was to provide implementation support along
with supervision. While technical experts changed during implementation, the core supervision
team remained unchanged. Particular technical expertise was drawn in to resolve bottlenecks and
problems (e.g., in the Rural Enterprise Component). Environmental and social safeguards were
supervised regularly by the core team and by specific technical experts as required. Participation
activities in the project were supported early on in project implementation by two Bank
contracted specialists. Two comprehensive supervision missions were carried out during each
fiscal year.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.1.3    As the Qinghai Component was dropped before project launch, and in view of the
satisfactory supervision of the project and the satisfactory achievement of the PDO, the overall
Bank performance is rated as having been moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.1      Poverty reduction and extensive and direct support to a variety of poverty reduction
programs has been a government priority during the past decade, culminating in special programs
for the Western regions and specific support for the "New Socialist Countryside". Even though
this project had a different institutional set up compared with the previous poverty reduction
projects - the Leading Group for Poverty Reduction having a coordination role rather than an
implementation responsibility - the central government, through the Leading Group, paid close
attention to this project, providing guidance and assistance through its Foreign Fund Management
office. Staff from this office participated in every supervision mission and carried out internal
supervision missions between Bank missions, actively disseminated lessons learned from the
other poverty reduction projects and this project through workshops and publications.

5.2.2      Lack of timely allocation of counterpart funds at the outset was overcome with the
strong political support and high attention to the project given by the provincial leadership. The
early problems with over-reporting and misuse of funds were also addressed rapidly and strongly,
once discovered. The ICR Task Team would like to note that higher than planned management
funds were provided to both provinces, which is directly linked with improved implementation
quality. In general, management funds for projects in China tend to be too low (always provided
through counterpart funds).




                                                   16

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2.3      While the project preparation was of high quality (see Section 2.1) enabling smooth
appraisal, the performance of the implementing agencies, the Gansu and Inner Mongolia Poverty
Reduction Offices, demonstrated a number of shortcomings. Early in the project implementation,
it was noted that project management offices located "outside" the Provincial Poverty Reduction
Offices were not able to function effectively; they were not able to exert the required level of
authority in implementation and had difficulties in accessing required counterpart funds. The
shortage of counterpart funding and bridge funding (see Sections 2.2.5 and 2.4.6) resulted in
"over-reporting" of project progress in some counties early on in the project. These
implementation difficulties, however, were discovered, acknowledged and addressed in a speedy
manner. The project offices were integrated into the regular poverty reduction office system at all
levels, and qualified staffs at all levels were appointed for the project. The counterpart funding
issue was largely resolved by merging project activities into the local governments' own poverty
reduction programs, thus optimizing fund utilization while at the same time ensuring cross-
fertilization of lessons learned. In the context of the overall implementation, these shortcomings
are considered to have been moderate.

5.2.4      Similarly, the financial management shortcomings in terms of misuse of funds from the
Special Account (see Section 2.4.6), while clearly in breach of sound financial management, were
small in size and, when discovered in audits, were immediately and forcefully addressed. These
remedial actions were only possible because of the "hands-on" attention and proactive guidance
from various levels of leadership (Provincial Vice Governor/Vice Chairman, county mayors, and
in particular, county party secretaries).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

5.2.5      In view of the "satisfactory" rating for the government's performance, the "moderately
satisfactory" performance of the implementing agency, and the "satisfactory" achievement of the
PDOs, the overall Borrower performance as rated as "satisfactory."

6. Lessons Learned

6.1.1    The main lessons learned from this project relate to: (a) securing bridge funds and
counterpart funding; (b) institutional arrangements; (c) leadership attention; (d) flexibility in
project implementation; (e) on-lending to households; and (f) monitoring and evaluation.

(a) Securing Bridge-Funding and Counterpart Funds. Timely availability of adequate
counterpart funding seems to be a chronic issue in Bank-financed rural projects in China. To
resolve this issue in future projects, a number of different approaches should be considered: (i)
the Bank and the Borrower should agree on a more realistic proportion of counterpart funds (less
than the current practice of 50 percent); (ii) the central government and provincial governments
should ensure at least part of the counterpart funds from their budgets; and (iii) bridge funding
and counterpart fund need to be arranged and firmly secured prior to project start-up in order to
avoid delays in project implementation. Integrating project activities with the borrower's own
programs and arranging up-front pre-financing of project activities (bridge funding) is a key
enabler for smooth project start-up. Integration ensures that annual counterpart fund budgeting
takes place in the context of the other programs' planning cycle and not as an extra-budgetary



                                                   17

item. For bridge funding, in the future the Bank and the borrower should consider using the
Bank's ability to provide up to 90 days of funds advance for project activities from the Special
Account. This would ensure that start-up funds are available at the county levels.

(b) Institutional Arrangements. Integrating project activities with the borrower's own
programs and project implementing units within the existing institutional system ensures a higher
degree of ownership, enabling better delivery of funding and technical services. It also ensures
more sustainable post-completion operations.

(c) Leadership Attention. Close leadership attention at various levels and in various forms,
especially at the provincial and county levels by the responsible vice governors, county mayors
and county party secretaries is fundamental to successful project implementation. Such attention
is a key prerequisite for putting in place suitable institutional arrangements and ensuring the
availability of for project funds in a timely manner (and making swift modifications, if required).
Examples of effective leadership attention are: (i) requests for regular progress and problem
identification reports from lower levels; (ii) attending reporting sessions; (iii) personal review of
annual funding requests and recommendation for approval; (iv) issuing circulars to lower levels
in regard to project actions that need to be taken; and (v) chairing awards ceremonies to best
performing project counties.

(d) Flexibility in Project Implementation. For successful implementation of projects with
agricultural activities, it is important to have enough flexibility in implementation allowing
responses to natural disasters and market conditions in particular.

(e) Monitoring and Evaluation. The right concept of defining and measuring efficiency and
performance is important in order to be able to monitor and evaluate a project's poverty impact.
In an environment as dynamic as China's, this becomes even more important. Future poverty
reduction projects should carry out poverty impact assessments by using modern econometric
techniques. This implies greater support from the Bank to the client in designing and supporting
M&E systems. Future projects should put more emphasis on capacity building in the analysis of
project monitoring data and improving the feed-back from data to project implementation.

(f) On-lending to Households. On-lending of Bank funds as sub-loans for agricultural
production activities to final beneficiaries through local Finance Bureaus has not been successful
in terms of repayment. On average, collection rates on sub-loans - if monitored - are low and, in
addition, the local authorities are frequently unable to appraise sub-projects adequately. Although
the rate of repayment of sub-loans was never meant to be a success criterion for this poverty
reduction project, this is true for this project as well. The system for on-lending Bank funds to
beneficiaries through Finance Bureaus for income-generating activities has been in place since
China started borrowing from the Bank in the early 1980s, but has become out-dated. In addition
to problems with repayment and selection of activities to be financed, below-market on-lending
rates create economic distortions and wrong incentives, at least at the local levels, and possibly
crowd out local financial institutions which are just starting to develop. In line with international
practice and general practice for domestic financing in China, loans for private investments (e.g.,
for income-generating purposes such as agriculture) should be channeled through financial
intermediaries. If a shortage of credit is an impediment in project areas, this could be addressed
by finding qualified financial intermediaries interested in borrowing and on-lending World Bank
loans.




                                                    18

7. Comments on Issues Raised by the Borrower/Implementing Agencies

7.1.1   The preparation of the implementing agencies' internal implementation completion
reports was initiated at the end of project completion. The finalization of those reports and the
preparation of the Bank's ICR took place in close cooperation, allowing for in-depth discussions
on various issues. As a result, the ICR Task Team does not have any additional comments on the
Borrower's summary reports as presented in Annex 5.




                                                19

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

1.1      Total actual project costs were US$293.21 million equivalent, about 94 percent of the
total costs estimated at project appraisal. This reduction was the result of the dropping of the
Qinghai Component. A project adjustment was made in both Gansu and Inner Mongolia upon
reallocation of the IDA credit originally allocated to Qinghai (SDR19.71 million) to the two
provinces.

1.2      Against the adjusted project cost estimate in 2001 (2001 estimate), the actual project
costs are slightly higher (about 1 percent). The actual project cost for Inner Mongolia was about
4 percent higher and for Gansu was about 2 percent lower than the 2001 estimate. By project
component, the investments for the Land and Household Development, Rural Enterprises, Labor
Mobility, and Institutional Building and Project Management components exceeded the 2001
estimate while those for other components (i.e., the Irrigation and Land Improvement, and Social
Sector Services components) were lower than the 2001 estimate as a result of project adjustments
because of market and policy changes. The total actual project costs include the investment costs
of both Gansu and Inner Mongolia. The following principles were used in data collection: (a)
comparison was made against the 2001 estimate; (b) working capital was included; and (c) the
front-end fee was excluded (but included in the total financing required).

(a) Project Cost by Component

                    Components                     Appraisal Estimate       Actual     Percentage of
                                                       (US$ million)    (US$ million)   Appraisal
Land and Household Development                            124.54            196.07        157.44
Irrigation and Land Improvement                            74.16              42.72        57.61
Rural Infrastructure                                       24.45              27.79       113.66
Rural Enterprises                                          13.53              14.13       104.43
Labor Mobility (Gansu)                                     13.79               1.36          9.86
Voluntary Settlement (Qinghai)                              6.54               0.00           -
Social Sector Services                                      8.12               0.45         5.54
Institutional Development and Project Management           10.17              10.69       105.11
Total Baseline Cost                                      275.30             293.21           -
Physical Contingencies                                     17.58               -             -
Price Contingencies                                        18.22               -             -
Total Project Costs                                      311.10                -             -
Front-end fee                                               0.00               0.00        0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                          0.60               0.47        0.60
Total Financing Required                                 311.70             293.68           -


(b) Financing

                  Source of Funds                  Appraisal Estimate       Actual     Percentage of
                                                       (US$ million)    (US$ million)   Appraisal
Borrower                                                 151.70             147.48        97.22
IBRD                                                       60.00              46.70       77.83
IDA                                                      100.00              99.50        99.50




                                                  20

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

2.1      Project output targets for each component were set at project appraisal. While the
Qinghai funds were reallocated between Gansu and Inner Mongolia and per project component
(i.e., Land and Household Development; Irrigation and Land Improvement; Rural Infrastructure,
and Rural Enterprises), no revised output targets were set in either province as the specific
activities needed time to be developed with each new county carrying out participatory detailed
designs of the activities. Therefore, the output information presented in this annex consists of
actual results based on data provided by Gansu and Inner Mongolia.

2.2      No formal mid-term review of the project took place as there was a need for continuous
adjustment of activities in view of the rapidly changing market conditions and the locality-
specific environmental conditions. Project adjustments were also initiated as a result of
government policy changes and the launch of the government's Western Development Program
during project implementation. The actual project outputs as presented below reflect these
adjustments. The overall project implementation in terms of outputs is rated as "satisfactory."

2.3      A. Land and Household Development Component (US$196.07 million, 120 percent of
2001 adjusted cost estimate). This satisfactory component was designed to provide improved
agricultural and livestock technology packages and up-graded agricultural and livestock support
services through four sub-components. Successful implementation of this component greatly
contributed to the achievement of the project objective to reduce absolute poverty in the project
areas with per capita income, grain production and livestock production in both provinces
exceeding the original targets.

(a)      Crop Production. The project supported a total of 153,000 ha of crop production
(97,000 ha in Inner Mongolia and 56,000 ha in Gansu) including 124,000 ha of grain crops and
29,000 ha of cash crops. The area of grain crops and vegetables was slightly under the target.
The area under vegetable production did not reach the target, mainly because of drought
conditions. However, the total established area for crop production exceeded the project target by
7 percent. In spite of the frequent droughts, crop production combined with the use of plastic
mulch (for retaining moisture) and irrigation greatly facilitated the introduction of new crop
activities to project households, including green-house vegetables and virus-free potato seed
breeding. Frequent "micro" adjustments of annual plans allowed activities to be changed in
response to changing market conditions and the participating households' desires. However,
these adjustments were labor intensive both to the project counties and the Bank's supervision
team, raising the question whether providing directed credit through Bank loans is an efficient
way to support the farmers in their income-generating activities or whether improved access to
regular credit to farmers would be better.

(b)      Livestock Production. The project supported household-based livestock breeding and
fattening activities. The actual number of animals financed by the project reached 1.34 million
(0.74 million in Inner Mongolia and 0.6 million in Gansu) including beef cattle, dairy cows, pigs,
sheep, goats, rabbits and poultry. This sub-component was extremely successful, reflecting the
positive aspect of the government's thrust to promote pen-feeding of animals to reduce grazing
pressure on grasslands. Animal husbandry was preferred by the project households to cropping
activities as animal husbandry is less drought sensitive than cropping. Animal feed can be stored
and purchased if needed. The total number of animals financed under the project exceeded the
appraisal target for Gansu and Inner Mongolia by over 25 percent. Almost all freshwater aquatic
production was dropped, mainly because of increased production costs and strong market




                                                 21

competition. In response to market opportunities and project households' wishes, dairy
production was added to project activities in Inner Mongolia.

(c)      Forestry and Grassland. A total of 78,000 ha of forests and forage production (48,000
ha in Inner Mongolia and 30,000 ha in Gansu) were financed under the project. This included
fruit trees (28,800 ha), timber forest (2,500 ha), shelter-forest (28,100 ha) and forage development
(18,600 ha). The latest estimate of annual production of fruits was about 4,086 tons. Though not
yet at final cut, the latest estimated timber production was about 344,000 cubic meters.
Implementation of this sub-component had a great environmental impact including improved
water conservation, reduced water and soil erosion, and reversed grassland degradation.

(d)      Support Services. The project aimed at improving the quality of farm-level technical
services through skill up-grading of technicians at county, township and village levels, and
developing improved and more economical and environmentally-sound technologies through
adaptive research, on-farm demonstrations and farmer training. More generally, "soft"
components of the project (such as technical assistance, extension services, training, and applied
research) were all a challenge to get started. In general, in Bank-funded projects in China this is
difficult. If intended to be financed by Bank loan proceeds, then these components usually do not
disburse well because of the Chinese practice that "who benefits pays." However, it is difficult
for the project management offices to find an entity willing to be responsible for loan repayment.
On the other hand, if these components are meant to be paid through counterpart funds, often the
funds do not materialize. In the context of this project, while all planned soft activities were
carried out, the quality and especially the impact of these activities varied at different localities.

(e)      B. Irrigation and Land Improvement Component (US$42.72 million, 96 percent of
2001 adjusted cost estimate). This satisfactory component provided support to various project
activities. At project completion, an additional total of 57,182 ha of land (25,949 ha in Inner
Mongolia and 31,300 ha in Gansu) including about 5,200 ha of rain-fed lands, benefited from
irrigation provided by small works constructed under the project including 28,233 water cisterns,
11,100 wells, and 333 km of irrigation canals, numerous pumping stations, sprinkler schemes and
small irrigation storage ponds. The project also supported the terracing of 26,719 ha of sloping
land and 3,500 ha of river embankment schemes for soil and water conservation purposes.
Provision of irrigation and terracing greatly improved crop productivity, contributing to the
overall success of the project. In addition, the terracing activities greatly contributed to water
conservation and reduction of soil erosion.

2.4      C. Rural Infrastructure Component (US$27.79 million, 93 percent of 2001 adjusted
cost estimate). This satisfactory component provided support to three sub-components.

(a)      Rural Roads. The project supported the construction of a total of 533 km of rural roads
in Gansu, mostly all-weather gravel roads to Class IV standards to link administrative villages to
the existing network of county and township roads. About 57 km of the roads were constructed
to Class II or Class III standards in Lixian County and Tanchang County which was derived from
increased demand of local population and extra counterpart funds secured. Roads constructed
under the project were generally of good quality. In Inner Mongolia, the originally planned 45
km of Class III road in Damao Banner was cancelled as a large national roads program provided
significant funding for roads in the project areas, including for the completion of the planned road
in Damao. The roads provided access to villages that previously had only limited (part of the
year) road access, if any. This has improved the marketability of village produce and has opened
up new markets (e.g., dairy in Inner Mongolia). In addition, the villagers' access to health care
and children's ability to attend middle and high school was greatly improved.




                                                  22

(b)       Rural Water Supply. A total of 353,000 local residents (11,000 in Inner Mongolia and
342,000 in Gansu) in the project areas benefited from clean water supply through the construction
of both piped and non-piped water supply facilities supported by the project. About 163,000 head
of large and small animals (68,000 in Inner Mongolia and 95,000 in Gansu) also benefited from
the facilities. The constructed rural drinking water supply facilities included 6,777 shallow wells,
850 deep tube wells, and 5,581 shallow tube wells, 21,035 sites of piped and non-piped water
supply systems which tapped water from springs, utilized ground-water, diverted or pumped
water from streams, and collected rain water. The provision of water supply greatly mitigated the
effects of drought in both provinces, greatly improving the reliability of drinking water supply
compared with before project.

(c)       Rural Electrification. The project supported installation of 1,360 km of rural
electrification lines including main transmission lines, distribution lines and accessories. A total
of 316 administrative villages (30 in Inner Mongolia and 286 in Gansu) have been connected to
and are receiving reliable electricity for use mainly by households, agro-processing, irrigation,
and schools. About 75 percent of the benefiting villages are in Gansu province. All villages in
Gansu and most villages in Inner Mongolia19 now have electricity supply.

2.5       D. Rural Enterprise Component (US$14.13 million, 113 percent of 2001 adjusted cost
estimate). This component was designed to provide credit to establish non-state owned and
household-based rural enterprises for construction of food- and fiber-processing facilities based
on agreed criteria. Two distinct investment packages were designed for Gansu and Inner
Mongolia at project appraisal which remained unchanged through out the project implementation.
The overall rating of this component is moderately satisfactory.

(a)       Gansu. The objective was to promote commercially-viable investments for opening
markets and generating employment opportunities for project area households. Specific
investments were intended to support small rural enterprises and small village enterprise activities
by individual households and household groups. By project completion, a total of 70 small
village-level enterprise activities, six small-scale rural enterprises and three rural trading markets
had received project funding. The overall implementation of this sub-component is considered
unsatisfactory. For a number of reasons, mainly market conditions and poor business
administration, many of the village-level enterprise activities failed to complete construction or
stopped operation after the completion. Project support to the six small-scale rural enterprises
(most of them at county levels) was, from a financial point of view, basically satisfactory;
however, the component's objective to generate employment opportunities for project area
households was not achieved. It is unlikely that these enterprises contributed in any major way to
poverty reduction in the project areas.

(b)       Inner Mongolia. The objective of the "rural enterprise activities" in Inner Mongolia was
to increase farm labor productivity and improve transport for goods and people. Actual
investments followed the design agreed at project appraisal but at a much-increased scale. A total
of 3,100 forage cutters (for feed chopping, milling and threshing) and 1,800 small tractors (for
transport, general farm work and powering farm machinery) were purchased. A total of 7,600
farm households in 497 villages of 11 counties benefited from this component. Activities are
rated satisfactory.




19Individual households in Inner Mongolia might still be without electricity if they live isolated from a village
infrastructure on the grassland. Such households rely mainly on small portable wind mills and/or solar systems that
charge a truck battery which provides electricity to TV and radio.



                                                          23

2.6      E. Labor Mobility Component (US$1.36 million, 107 percent of 2001 adjustment cost
estimate). This component was designed for Gansu only and was originally intended to provide
support to organized and voluntary placement of about 65,700 surplus rural laborers in off-farm
employment and to Gansu's Labor Bureau to improve the management and referral services. In
2001, the provincial government advised the Bank that: (a) it would cancel the remaining
implementation of this component; (b) it would return reimbursed Bank funds to the Special
Account; and (3) it required the reallocation of the total Bank Loan proceeds originally budgeted
for this component to other project activities within the scope of project design. By the time the
Bank concurred with this request, a total of 5,543 persons had already been placed (1,607 within
Gansu and 3,936 outside the province). Training in relevant technical skills, the urban living and
labor environment, relevant labor laws and workers' safety were provided, together with funding
equivalent to initial settlement expenses for all these placed rural laborers. Support for Gansu
Labor Bureau was cancelled after agreement with the Bank once minimal expenses had occurred.
The component is not rated.

2.7      F. Voluntary Settlement Component (US$0). This component was designed for
Qinghai only and was not implemented as a result of the withdrawal of Qinghai from the project
in 1999. The component is not rated.

2.8      G. Social Sector Services Component (US$0.45 million, 19 percent of 2001 adjustment
cost estimate). This component was to provide support to two sub-components.

(a)      Education. This sub-component was for Qinghai only and designed to address the basic
education needs related to the Qinghai Component's voluntary resettlement program. The sub-
component was not implemented because of the withdrawal of Qinghai from the project in 1999.
The sub-component is not rated.

(b)      Health. This sub-component was designed to improve the quality of and access to basic
health services in selected project villages. In the early stages of implementation, the government
requested that this sub-component be dropped based on a policy change of the government. Since
project preparation, the government's health care strategy in rural areas had been revised to cover
all project counties by national support in health care directly through the provincial Health
Bureau. In addition, health care was supposed to be consolidated at township and county levels
instead of village levels. This change in strategy made project activities under this sub-
component no longer consistent with the national policy; since the planned activities were small
in scope and with minimal funding through counterpart funds only, the Bank concurred with the
request in 2001 (at the time of completion of the project restructuring). In Inner Mongolia,
limited investments had already taken place mainly in up-grading medical equipment. The sub-
component is not rated.

2.9      H. Institutional Building and Project Management Component (US$10.69 million,
111 percent of 2001 adjustment cost estimate). This component was designed to strengthen
project management through a variety of training activities and the establishment of project
monitoring systems. This component supported three sub-components which all were
implemented satisfactorily.

(a)      Institutional Building. An institutional development program was implemented in each
province aimed at the strengthening of PMO capability and staff competence for project
implementation. Various activities were carried out throughout project's implementation period
including training, study tours, workshops, technical assistance and provision of office facilities.
Through project implementation, more than half of project staff were recognized as project
implementation specialists in certain fields and about 30 percent of staff at various levels were
promoted, including to management positions. Difficulties in coordination, and uneven



                                                  24

institutional and technical capacity, in particular at county levels, posed a challenge especially in
the beginning of the project. Integrating the project activities into the Poverty Offices' own
programs eventually resolved a large part of the challenges.

(b)      Independent Poverty Impact Monitoring. The project's poverty impact was monitored,
evaluated and disseminated by the SSB on a yearly basis. Seven monitoring reports (1999-2005)
were prepared by the SSB covering all project areas in both Gansu and Inner Mongolia (see
Section 2.3 in the main text).

(c)      Project Management. The project management structure was generally strong in both
provinces. Under the project, a total of 54 Project Leading Groups and the same number of
PMOs were established in both provinces at provincial, prefecture and county levels. Working
stations (405) were set up in all project townships. Project implementation groups (3,674) were
set up in all project villages. Technical Advisory Groups at provincial, prefecture and county
levels were set up and, in cooperation with line government agencies, provided technical support
for project implementation. At the central level, the State Council's Leading Group for Poverty
Reduction and Development of the State Council and the Foreign Capital Project Management
Center played an important role in coordination, guidance, monitoring and provision of services
with regard to project implementation. It should be noted that higher-than-planned management
funds were provided to both provinces and counties, and this is directly linked with improved
implementation quality. In general, management funds for projects in China tend to be too low
(always provided through counterpart funds).

2.10     Detailed outputs by component are presented in Table 2 below.




                                                  25

Table 2
                                                                                      Percent of

                             Indicators                           Appraisal             2001
                                                                  estimate20 Actual   adjusted
                                                                                       target
                                                                                     GS: 107
 A. Land and Household Development                                                   IM: 138
    annual production of grain (tons)                              269,000   74,617
    annual production of cash crop products (tons)                 150,000   79,412
    annual production of fruits (tons)                             70,000    4,086
    annual production of animals (million head)                       3.2     1.34
    timber at final cut (million m3)                                  1.5     0.34
                                                                                      GS: 111
 B. Irrigation and Land Improvement                                                    IM: 83
    new reservoir of 40 m height and 26 million m3 storage
    constructed                                                       1.0       -
    existing reservoir of 10 m height renovated                       1.0       -
    lands irrigated for agricultural production (ha)               53,250    57,182
                                                                                      GS: 107
 C. Rural Infrastructure                                                               IM: 39
    Class III/IV roads constructed (km)                              216      533
    shallow wells constructed (no.)                                 5,060     6,777
    deep tube wells constructed (no.)                                821      850
    shallow tube wells constructed (no.)                            5,641     5,581
    piped/non-piped water supply sites constructed (no.)                     21,035
    villages connected & receiving reliable electricity (no.)        410      316
                                                                                      GS: 111
 D. Rural Enterprises                                                                 IM: 122
    facilities constructed/upgraded ­ Gansu (no.)                             264
    agricultural equipment - Inner Mongolia (no.)                     n/a    4,900
 E. Labor Mobility                                                              -
    rural workers placed in off-farm employment (No.)              65,700     5,543       -
 F. Voluntary Settlement                                                                 n/a
    people voluntarily settled in Balong, Qinghai (no.)            57,600       -
    herders/farmers voluntarily participate in the project (no.)    4,000       -
    new townships established                                         2         -
    new villages established                                          21        -
 G. Social Sector Services                                                               n/a
         establishment of primary/secondary schools (no.)             21        -
         establishment of health centers (no.)                        23        -
                                                                                      GS: 106
 H. Institutional Building & Project Management                                       IM: 121
         established Provincial PMOs (no.)                            3         2
         established Prefecture PMOs (no.)                            6        12
         established County PMOs (no.)                                34       40
         established township workstations (no.)                     609      405
         established village implementation groups (no.)            6,078     3,674
         established Technical Advisory Groups (no.)                  37       46
         farmers/herders trained (no.)                             526,347   968,786
(GS= Gansu, IM=Inner Mongolia)




20Including Qinghai Province.



                                                     26

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

3.1     Methodology and Assumptions. The economic rate of return (ERR) at completion has
been recalculated using new household surveys conducted by the PMOs in project villages. The
methodologies and assumptions used are similar to those adopted at appraisal to maximize
comparability. The ERR was calculated for each of the five project components and the overall
project ERR was obtained as the investment-weighted average of the five ERRs. Investment in
Irrigation and Land Improvement was incorporated as a cost in the Land and Household
Development component because the benefits from these investments are hard to isolate and are
broadly reflected in the increased revenues of the different activities of that component. Costs
and benefits of each activity have been projected over a period of 20 years using constant 2006
prices.

3.2     In Inner Mongolia, estimates of the ERR of the Land and Household Development
Component are based on the reported scale of each of the different activities and the median of
the county estimates of the yields, output prices, operation and labor costs for each of the
different activities. In Gansu, given data limitations, the average yield, output price, operation
and labor costs of the nine most important activities in the component from two representative
counties were used. These nine activities accounted for 76 percent of the total investment in this
component. Actual investments reported by the project were used to calculate the investment
cost. In calculating the ERR for the component, investment in overall institution building was
incorporated on a pro rata basis as a cost. It should be noted that the ERR estimate for the rural
road investment in Gansu is a lower bound. It is based on savings in transport cost and does not
include its contribution to increased market access, market development and economic growth.
The water and electricity prices, as well as the number of beneficiaries and wage information,
were up-dated from appraisal though the same assumptions were used otherwise.

3.3     Economic Rate of Return. The ERR was estimated at 17.7 percent for the project in
Gansu and at 20.0 percent for the project in Inner Mongolia. The Inner Mongolia ERR estimate
is similar to the one at appraisal, but the estimate for Gansu is lower. This is because of both
methodological and economic reasons, as explained below.

3.4     At appraisal, the project in Gansu included the Labor Mobility Component accounting for
about 10 percent of the total investment had an estimated ERR of 35.7 percent. This component
was dropped at the time of project restructuring, lowering the anticipated ERR of the total project
in Gansu. In addition, the ERR for the rural enterprise activities (7.4 percent of the total
anticipated investment) is much lower than the appraisal estimate because the "without- project"
benefits were not deducted at appraisal and because the sales price of some of the products has
substantially declined since appraisal. The ERR for rural roads was also lower, largely because
of a significant increase in costs (estimated at RMB 33,752/km at appraisal compared with a
reported cost of RMB 166,361/km at completion). This increased actual completion cost is partly
the result of the up-grade of the type of roads constructed. Higher class roads were constructed,
as required by new government strategy and regulations. Given that the calculation of the ERR
used estimated savings in transport costs (but not the benefits from increased connectivity, market
participation and specialization) the estimated ERR for rural roads, at 8.2 percent, is probably a
significant under-estimate

3.5     The value of separate calculations of the financial rate of return was considered
negligible, as markets in China are now well integrated.




                                                  27

Table A3.1: ERR (percent) of project components at project appraisal and completion.

                                                             Gansu                         Inner Mongolia
                                              Appraisal           Completion       Appraisal        Completion
 Project Components                               ERR                ERR              ERR               ERR
 Land and household development1                   19.5               19.3            22.0               19.2
 Rural infrastructure                              15.3               10.3            14.4               16.5
    - rural roads                                  19.1                8.2            16.4                n/a
    - rural water supply                           13.4               10.3             13.3              16.6
    - rural electrification                        13.5               15.8            14.2               16.4
 Rural Enterprises                                 50.7               16.0            50.1               47.5
 Total project  2                                  28.4               17.7            20.6               20.0
1. Land and household development includes irrigation and land improvement.
2. ERR of overall project in Gansu at appraisal also includes the Labor Mobility component with an individual estimated
ERR of 35.7 percent.

3.6      Sensitivity Analysis. While the estimated ERR suggests a robust return to the project,
the estimates also appear sensitive to potential fluctuations in certain product and factor markets.
The overall project ERR was derived from the investment-weighted average of the ERRs of the
four project components (Land and Household Development, Irrigation and Land Improvement,
Rural Infrastructure and Rural Enterprises Development). Given that the Land and Household
Development Component makes up 75 percent and 81 percent of the total investment in Gansu
and Inner Mongolia, respectively, the project's overall ERR critically depends on the ERR of this
component. Moreover, in each province, three specific activities make up around 40 percent of
the total reported investment in the component. These activities are plastic mulch corn
cultivation, ewe-raising and pig-fattening in Gansu; and virus-free potato cultivation, ewe-raising
and fat-tailed sheep-raising in Inner Mongolia.

3.7      The estimated ERR of the Land and Household Development Component fluctuated
between 11-28 percent in Gansu and between 10-28 percent in Inner Mongolia, given a 10
percent decrease/increase of the gross revenues of these three activities. A 25 percent increase in
the labor cost for the three activities yields an ERR of 12 percent and 15 percent in Gansu and
Inner Mongolia, respectively. By way of reference, wages in Inner Mongolia doubled during the
project period.




                                                          28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
        Names                   Title              Unit               Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Petros Aklilu       Task Team Leader             EASRD     Rural development
Vincent Ashworth    Consultant                              Crops and agricultural services
Benu Bidani                                                 Poverty analysis, monitoring & evaluation
Chup Lim Cheong     Consultant                              Water conservation, infrastructure
Christer Cronberg   Consultant                              Rural enterprises
Robert Crooks       Peer Reviewer                EASES      Environment
Nicolette DeWitt    Legal Advisor
Cornelis De Haan    Peer Reviewer                           Livestock
Sandra Durham                                               Financial management and control
James Goering       Peer Reviewer                           Rural development (World Vision)
Mengjie Han         Consultant                              Health
Wenbin Hu           Consultant                              Education
Hyung Min Kim      Disbursement Specialist                  Disbursement
Zongcheng Lin       Anthropologist               EASES      Social, minorities, gender
Alex Schumacher     Consultant                              Environment
Dennis Sheehy       Consultant                              Livestock
Kalanidhi Subbrao   Peer Reviewer                           Poverty
Lang Seng Tay       Peer Reviewer                           Irrigation and infrastructure
Xiaolan Wang        Financial Analyst            EASRE      Financial management and control
Weiguo Zhou         Operations Officer           EASRE      Costing, procurement, financial analysis
Zhengxuan Zhu      Co-Task Team Leader           EASRD      Organization and management
Supervision
Sari Söderström     Lead Operations Officer      EASRE      Task Team Leader (environment., M&E)
Abraham Brandenberg Animal Husbandry Specialist  EASRD      Animal husbandry
Chup-Lim Cheong     Consultant                              Rural infrastructure, water conservation

Yi Dong            Financial Management
                   Specialist                    EAPCO      Financial management

Achim Fock          Senior Economist             EASRE      Economic analysis
Martti Lariola     Consultant                               Rural enterprises
Julia Li            Economist                    Consultant Labor mobility
Zong-Cheng Lin     Social Development Specialist EASRE      Social, resettlement, ethnic minorities
Wanlong Lin        Agricultural Economist        Consultant Economic analysis
Gayane Minasyan     Environmental Economist      EASRE      Environment
Pawan Patil         Senior Economist             EASRE      Labor mobility
Rutger-Jan Schoen   Consultant                              Social, participation
Jinan Shi           Procurement Specialist       EAPCO      Procurement
Bruce Trangmar      Consultant                              Agriculture, environment
Jianping Wu         Consultant                              Agriculture, animal husbandry
Zhengxuan Zhu      Agricultural Specialist       EASRD      Institutions
Weiguo Zhou         Operations Officer           EASRE      Institutions, procurement, financial analysis
ICR
Sari Söderström     Lead Operations Officer      EASRE
Luc Christiaensen   Senior Economist             EASRE
Weiguo Zhou         Operations Officer           EASRE



                                                29

b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                              US$ thousands
                                          Staff weeks        (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)

Lending
                    FY97                                             31.59
                    FY98                                             250.01
                    FY99                                             304.96
Total                                                                586.56

Supervision/ICR
                    FY99                                             2.51
                    FY00                        32                  146.43
                    FY01                        36                  188.99
                    FY02                        19                  116.94
                    FY03                        18                    98.8
                    FY04                        14                   88.28
                    FY05                        12                   80.43
                    FY06                        12                   51.08
                    FY07                        15                   86.05
Total                                          158                  859.51




                                      30

Annex 5. Borrower's Comments and ICR Summaries



                  Leading Group for Poverty Reduction under the State Council
                                Foreign Capital Management Office
                                            March 2007


        China Gansu and Inner Mongolia Poverty Reduction Project (the Project) is the third
large and trans-regional project directly supporting farmers with comprehensive measures
implemented in China in cooperation with the World Bank after the Southwest Poverty Reduction
Project and Qinba Poverty Reduction Project. Overall, design of the project has carried on the
concept of the previous two projects and reflected the mainstream thinking for fighting against
poverty at the time of design. The Project has increased China's financial inputs in poverty
reduction and development and offered effective support to the implementation of "Ten-Year
Program for Poverty Alleviation and Development". The successful experience of the Project has
provided a useful reference for the development of China's poverty reduction and development
during the new stage and has set a good example for poverty reduction cause worldwide.

    Although during the implementation of the Project, China's western areas were hit by
successive major droughts and experienced decline of prices for agricultural produce, poverty
situation in the project areas has been remarkably improved, the society and economy have been
developed in an all-round way, the productive capacity of project farmers especially poor farmers
has been evidently improved. Through joint efforts of various parties, all of the project objectives
have been achieved.

1. Main Results/Outcomes of the Project

1)    The alleviation of poverty is faster than the national average level with the number of poor
      reduced by 225,000. In 1999, poverty incidence in the project villages was 22.2%, which
      was 4 times of China's rural average level, but by 2004 it declined to 8.2%. In comparison
      with the average poverty incidence of 2.8% in China's rural areas, the gap has been
      narrowed by a large margin.

2)    Significant increase has seen in the average per capita net income in the project villages and
      the increase is faster than the national average. In 2004, average per capita net income in
      the project areas reached 1,705 Yuan, 58.9% higher over that in 1999 and with an annual
      average growth of 9.7%, which is about 4% higher than the average annual growth of per
      capita net income for China's rural residents.

3)    Remarkable results have been achieved in infrastructure construction. The Project has
      played an effective role in promoting the improvement in the infrastructure of project
      villages. By 2004, the majority of project villages had got access to electricity, roads and
      television and the number of villages with access to telephone had increased from 31.5% in
      1999 to 82.6% in 2004.

4)    The self-development capacity and risk-prevention capacity of poor households have been
      improved by a large margin. Through participating in project activities, receiving various
      training on practical technologies, farmers have had significant progress in their productive



                                                 31

    skills and self-development awareness; their sources of income have become more
    diversified; the implementation of basic farmland construction components has resulted in
    increases of terraces, irrigated land and land productivity and significant increases in
    farmers' cash income and grain reserves.

2. Extensive Impacts of the Project

1)  The Project has further demonstrated the effectiveness of integrated poverty reduction
    models. The Project has adopted integrated poverty reduction and development models,
    which have not only increased farmers' income, improved basic productive and living
    conditions of poor households, promoted the transfer of surplus labor, but also improved
    the overall skills and self-development capacity of poor households.

2)  The Project has produced positive impacts on poverty reduction and development activities
    within China. Through drawing on the lessons of Southwest and Qinba Poverty Reduction
    Projects, the Project has achieved improvements in many aspects including project design,
    management and farmers' participation. During project implementation, the Project
    explored many new practices and created some successful models. As a result, practitioners
    from the poverty alleviation system of many provinces conducted a number of field visits to
    the project areas to learn the successful experience of the project.

3)  Participation by households has been deepened. In contrast to the Southwest and Qinba
    Poverty Reduction Projects, poor households of the Project have participated in a more
    extensive and deeper manner in the whole process of the Project including project
    preparation, implementation and monitoring and evaluation. As a result of project
    implementation, farmers' sustainable development capacity has been enhanced while their
    income increased.

4)  Project implementation has produced positive impacts on women in the project areas. The
    implementation of rural water supply component has reduced women's labor intensity,
    improved sanitation conditions and lowered the incidence of diseases. Through
    participating in project activities and various targeted training programs, women have
    enhanced their productive skills and management capacity, and with the implementation of
    the project, they have become one of the main sources of household income. As a result, the
    status of women in rural economy and life has been enhanced.

5)  Impacts on the environment. In general, project impacts on the environment are positive.
    During project design, project activities targeted at ecological rehabilitation and
    environmental pressure mitigation were designed. Through transferring slope land to flat
    land and thinly-layered land to thickly-layered land, soil and water have been conserved
    and vegetation in mountainous areas rehabilitated. As a result, soil erosion has been
    significantly reduced, environmental deterioration checked and environmental quality
    improved.

3. Lessons Learned during Project Design and Implementation

1)  More attention should be paid to the importance and timeliness of "software" components.
    Like other projects, the phenomenon of management staff and farmers of the Project
    favoring more on "hardware" than "software" remains prominent. People were very
    proactive towards "hardware" components and the funds they received were firstly used for
    the activities such as construction of terraces and pig farming. However, they lacked


                                               32

   sufficient understanding of the importance of skills training. As a result, some "software"
   components had been delayed, the timeliness of skills training lost and project benefits were
   hard to be maximized.

2) Poverty reduction effectiveness of Rural Enterprises Development Component is yet to be
   further studied. Drawing on the lessons of Southwest and Qinba Poverty Reduction Project
   with less ideal implementation effectiveness of rural enterprises components, the Project
   had comparatively small investments in rural enterprises and supported a limited number of
   enterprises. Although the benefits of enterprises supported by the Project have been good, it
   is hard to evaluate the role of enterprises in poverty alleviation and their impacts on poor
   households.

3) Provision of domestic counterpart funds was difficult. As a provincial project, counterpart
   funds of the Project were shared in proportion by provincial, municipal and county
   governments as well as project farmers and there had been no provision of central poverty
   alleviation funds as the Project's counterpart funds. Overall, provision of provincial
   counterpart funds had been good, but county governments had difficulties in meeting the
   requirements for their corresponding counterpart funds since all of these counties are key
   state-designated counties for poverty alleviation and development with very difficult fiscal
   situation. Inadequate provision of government counterpart funds would inevitably increase
   the share of farmers' self-financing.




                                             33

                           Gansu Provincial Project Management Office
                                            October 2006


1. OVERVIEW

1.1 Project Background

         Gansu is located in the junction area among the Loess Plateau, the Inner Mongolia
Plateau, and Tibetan Plateau, belonging to the basins of the Yellow River, the Changjiang River
and inter-locked rivers with the total area of 454,403 km2. By the end of 1996, there were totally
4.29 million households in 1,532 townships of 87 counties under 14 prefectures. There were
totally 19.75 million rural populations with 8.87 million rural labor forces. The total arable land
was 3.5 million ha, with an average of 0.18 ha per rural population. The total grain production
was 7.99 million tons 404.52 kg per capita. Per capita net income was 1,100 RMB in rural area.
There were 41 nationally-designated poverty counties in the province including 3.75million of
poor population. Gansu has been regarded as one of the poorest and least-developed provinces in
China.

         To promote the economic development in the western poverty areas in China, and ensure
the achievement of the National Eight-Seven Poverty Reduction Program objectives, the State
Council Poverty Reduction Leading Group, the Minister of Finance, the State Planning and
Development Committee jointly approved the Western Poverty Reduction Project in Gansu, Inner
Mongolia and Qinghai (withdrawn in 1999). Upon completion of two years of hard work for the
project preparation, the proposed poverty reduction project was formally launched in December
1999 with some activities retroactively financed from January 1999.

1.2 Basic Information in Project Area

         Based on the selection criteria, a total of 12 counties (Wudu, Tanchang, Lixian, Kangxian,
Wenxian, Xihe in Longnan prefecture; Qinan, Qinshui, Wushan, Zhangjiachuan, Gangu in
Tianshui Municipality and Minxian in Dingxi prefecture) with 185 project townships and 2,234
project villages were selected as project area. In May 2001, due to the withdrawal of Qinghai
province from the project, 7 new counties (Huixian, Chengxian, Liangdang in Longnan prefecture,
Qincheng, Maiji in Tianshui Municipal, Weiyuan in Dingxi prefecture, and Zhuanglang in
Pingliang prefecture) were added as new project area with 57 project townships and 313 project
villages. This adjustment brought the project area to include 19 counties, 242 townships and
2,547 villages, with a total of 230,000 households and 1.08 million project beneficiaries.

1.3 Project Objectives

         The overall project objective is to reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in remote and
inaccessible villages of the project provinces. The project would empower poor households in the
selected poor counties to raise their incomes, through increased grain and livestock production
sufficient to meet the basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases, also generate a
marketable surplus to improve living standards, establishment of alternative income generation
activities in poor rural areas, improvement of rural infrastructure and enhanced access to basic
social services such as health and education would also increase the living standards of poor rural
households.

         For the 12 original project counties, the specific project target was to reach per capita
income of 946 RMB, per capita grain of 320 kg, with a total of newly developed terracing of
21,151 ha, 0.067 ha (1 mu) of orchard per household, and with drinking water access for both
project households and animals. It also planned to ensure over 90% of project households to learn
at lease one type of agriculture production skill, 100% of project townships to have the access to



                                                  34

the country road at class IV level or above, and 95% of project villages to have the road access
for motor vehicles.

         For the adjusted new project counties, the specific project target was to realize per capita
income of 1,200 RMB, per capita grain of 420 kg, with a total of newly developed terracing of
3,385 ha, 3,933 ha of new orchard, and 1,171 ha of newly irrigated land. It also planned to
fundamentally resolve the problem of drinking water access for both farmers and animals; ensure
over 95% of project households to learn at lease one type of agriculture production skill; 100% of
project townships to have the access to the country road at class IV level or above, and 95% of
project villages to have the road access for motor vehicles.

1.4 Project Component and Investment

         The total investment of the project was estimated at 1,385 million RMB, including
US$87.45 million (equivalent to about 716 million RMB) of the World Bank loan. Based on the
project proposal approved by the State Planning and Development Committee and the feasibility
study report approved by the Provincial Planning and Development Commission, the counterpart
fund also include 49.96 million RMB of interests during the project implementation period. Thus
the total financing requirement was 1,435 million RMB, including 719 million RMB of
counterpart fund.

         Land and Household Development Component. Through the extension of advanced
agriculture production skill, it would further increase grain, cash crops and cash tree plantation,
and livestock production, so as to improve the comprehensive agriculture productivity. The
investment of this component was estimated at 710 million RMB, accounting for 51.3% of the
total investment.

         Irrigation and Land Improvement Component. It planned to construct water cannels,
water cisterns, wells, spring irrigation, pumping irrigation, small-scaled irrigation facility; and
terracing so as to increase arable land. The investment of this component was estimated at
199million RMB, accounting for 14.4% of the total project cost.

         Rural Infrastructure Component. The project activities mainly include rural road
construction, rural water supply, rural power line construction etc. The investment of this
component was estimated at 178 million RMB, accounting for 12.8% of the total project cost.

         Rural Enterprise Component. The project activities include the construction of the small-
scaled forage processing, Chinese herb medicine processing, Tea processing factories etc, and the
construction of agro-products trading markets. The investment of this component was estimated
at 89.99 million RMB, accounting for 6.5% of the total project cost.

         Labor Mobility Component. The project activities include technical training, mobilizing
the surplus rural labor forces 70,000 out of the poverty area. The investment of this component
was estimated at 135 million RMB, accounting for 9.8% of the total project cost.

         Social Sector ­ Education and Health Component. The investment of this component was
estimated at 19.08 million RMB, accounting form 1.4% of the total project cost.

         Institutional Building and Project Management Component. The investment of this
component was estimated at 53.14million RMB, accounting for 3.8% of total project cost.




                                                 35

1.5 Project Adjustment

        The adjustment of the project activities. Labor mobility component was terminated in
2001, and the unused budget was reallocated to the Land and Household Development
Component, which brought the investment of this component to about 60% of the total project
cost. As for the Irrigation and Land Improvement Component, the scale for tube wells and
pumping irrigation was reduced, while the scale of cannel construction, water cisterns, spring
irrigation and river bank embankment was increased. As for the Rural Infrastructure Component,
the scale of rural road construction, rural water supply, and rural power line construction was all
increased. For the Rural Enterprise Component, the scale of small-scaled processing plants
construction was much reduced, while the investment to Jindadi Starch Processing Plant
reconstruction in Dingxi prefecture was increased. In addition, 5 enterprises in Tianshui Hi-tech
Agriculture Demonstration Garden were added to this component. The Health Component was
dropped and the original budget was reallocated to the Rural Infrastructure Component.

        The adjustment of the unit cost. The unit cost for river bank embankment activity in
Tanchang county was increased to 44,492 RMB/ha from 32,952RMB/ha; the unit cost for the
rural road construction was also increased to 293,000 RMB/km from 150,000 RMB/km in
Tanchang and Lixian.

        The adjustment in the procurement and disbursement. As approved by the World Bank,
the procurement method for plastic mulch was changed to NCB from ICB, the procedures for
procurement of seeds; seedling, farm tools, animals etc. were simplified by using "Image
Receipts". Starting from 2001, disbursement was also adjusted accordingly due to annual
adjustment of project activities.

Table 1: Project Adjustment

     Unit: '0000 RMB

                                               The Project          12 Old Counties 7 New Counties
 Project Component
                                         Adjusted      % of Total      Adjusted         Adjusted
                                        Investment    Investment      Investment      Investment

 Land and Household Development          84,153.27         60          70,532.26       13,621.00

 Irrigation and Land Improvement         19,177.45         14          16,281.30        2,896.15

 Rural Infrastructure                    20,588.56         15          16,435.06        4,153.49

 Rural Enterprise                        9,148.16          7           9,148.16

 Labor Mobility                          1,248.08          1           1,248.08

 Health
 Institutional Building and Project
 Management                              5,560.77          4           4,134.89         1,425.88

 Total Investment                       139,876.28                    117,779.75       22,096.52




                                                  36

2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROGRESS

2.1 Project Progress

        As of the end of June 2006, the cumulative investment under the project has reached
1,400 million RMB or 100.1% of the adjusted project cost estimate of 1,399 million RMB,
including 1,171 million RMB or 99.4% of the adjusted cost estimate in 12 old project counties
and 229 million RMB or 103.7% of the adjusted cost estimate in 7 new project counties.

        The completed investment under Land and Household Development Component was 853
million RMB, or 101.4% of the adjusted cost estimate of 841 million RMB. For the 12 old project
counties, the completed investment has reached 710 million RMB, or 100.7% of the adjusted cost
estimate of 705 million RMB. For the 7 new project counties, the completed investment has
reached 143 million RMB, or 105% of the adjusted cost estimate of 136 million RMB. At the
project completion, a total 34,347.54 ha of grain crops, 21,466.13 ha of cash crops, 29,568.02 ha
of tree crops were newly developed. In addition, a total of about 600,000 heads of livestock
animals were procured by project household.

        The completed investment under Irrigation and Land Improvement Component was 190
million RMB, or 99.0% of the adjusted cost estimate of 192 million RMB. For the 12 old project
counties, the completed investment has reached 161 million RMB, or 99.4% of the adjusted cost
estimate of 162 million RMB. For the 7 new project counties, the completed investment has
reached 28 million RMB, or 96.6% of the adjusted cost estimate of 29 million RMB. At the
project completion, a total of 333.15 km of water channels for irrigation was newly constructed,
which has greatly ensured the irrigation for crops particularly the newly planted orchard. The
controlled river bank embankment has reached 209.74 ha. The controlled small river basins have
amounted to 3,482.84 ha. The newly-increased terracing amounted to 23,343.19 ha, which
provided improved water and soil conditions for quality plantation of crops and cash tree crops.

        The total completed investment for Rural Infrastructure Component was 204 million
RMB, or 99.0% of the adjusted cost estimate of 206 million RMB. In which, the completed
investment in 12 old project counties was 161 million RMB or 98.2% of the adjusted cost
estimate of 164 million RMB; the completed investment in 7 new project counties was 43 million
RMB or 102.4% of the adjusted cost estimate of 42 million RMB. At the project completion, the
cumulative numbers of constructed water cisterns for both farmers and animal reaches 27,506,
which have significantly, solve the problem of the safe water access for 340,000 project
beneficiary in the project area. It also has completed the construction of 533.05 km of rural road,
1,022.51 km of rural power lines.

        The total completed investment for Institutional Building and Project Management
Component was 56.19 million RMB, or 101% of the adjusted cost estimate of 55.61 million
RMB. For the 12 old project counties, the completed investment has reached 41.04 million RMB,
or 99.3% of the adjusted cost estimate of 41.35 million RMB. For the 7 new project counties, the
completed investment was 15.14 million RMB, or 106.2% of the adjusted cost estimate of 14.26
million RMB.

        The completed investment for Labor Mobility Component was 10.62 million RMB, or
85.1% of the adjusted cost estimate of 12.48 million RMB. The component was terminated in
October 2001, and the unused component budget was reallocated to other project components.

        Since the beginning of implementation of Public Health Component, the public health
policies in project area have been adjusted. All designed project activities would be directly
implemented by local health sectors. The World Bank mission agreed to stop implementation of
this component in 2001.



                                                 37

        The completed investment in Rural Enterprise Component was 86.17 million RMB, or
94.2% of the adjusted cost estimate of 91.48 million RMB. Project enterprises include 5 enterprises
located in Tianshui Hi-tech Agriculture Demonstration Garden, Jindadi Starch Processing Plant in
Minxian, and some small-scaled plants such as forage processing, Chinese herb medicine
processing, tea processing etc.

        The total completed investment for Institutional Building and Project Management
Component was 56.19 million RMB, or 101% of the adjusted cost estimate of 55.61 million
RMB. For the 12 old project counties, the investment was 41.04 million RMB, or 99.3% of the
adjusted cost estimate of 41.35 million RMB. For the 7 new project counties, the investment was
15.14 million RMB, or 106.2% of the adjusted cost estimate of 14.26 million RMB.

2.2 Project Procurement

        The agreed procurement plan for the original project proposal for 12 project counties was
1,117.07 million RMB, and the procurement plan for the 7 new project counties was 242.05
million RMB. As of June 30, 2006, the completed procurement in the original procurement plan
was 1,162.92 million RMB, or 104% of the original procurement plan, and the completed
procurement in the procurement plan for the 7 new project counties was 225.03 million RMB, or
93.0% of the procurement plan.

        By procurement method, the completed procurement by ICB was 2.21 million RMB in
original project area, and 1.09 million RMB in the new project area. The completed procurement
by NCB was 16.10 million RMB in original project area, and 4.66 million RMB in the new
project area. The completed procurement by other procurement method was 1,045.81 million
RMB in original project area, and 203.46 million RMB in the new project area. About RMB
98.80 million in the original project area and RMB 15.81 million in the new project area was non-
Bank financed.

        By expenditure category, the completed procurement of civil works was 465.83 million
RMB in the original project area, and 80.00 million RMB in the new project area. The completed
procurement of goods was 617.47 million RMB in the original project area, and 134.69 million
RMB in the new project area. The completed selection of consulting services was 18.90 million
RMB in the original project area, and 8.77 million RMB in the new project area. The other
completed procurements were 61.93 million RMB in the original project area, and 1.57 million
RMB in the new project area.

2.3 The World Bank Loan and Credit

        The total amount of the World Bank Loan and Credit for the project was US$87.45
million, equivalent to 716 million RMB including US$23.4 million of IBRD Loan and
SDR46.21million of IDA Credit. As of October 31, 2006, both Loan and Credit amount were
fully reimbursement in 52 applications.

Table 2: Disbursement

                                        Credit (SDR)                      Loan (USD)
 By category                     Original       Amount after    Original         Amount after
                                  amount         adjustment      amount           adjustment
 1-a     Civil works            17,391,961       19,109,000
 1-b     Goods                  24,512,848       24,971,283     16,126,000       22,698,493.91
 1-c     Consultation            3,308,778        1,983,000
 1-d     Monitoring               248,000         200,000
 1-e     Labor settlement                                       7,040,000          467,506.09
 1-f     Frond-end Fee                                           234,000            234,000
 Total                          45,461,587       46,263,283     23,400,000         23,400,000



                                                 38

2.4 Project Counterpart Fund

         As of June 30, 2006, the cumulative counterpart fund provided was 839.68 million RMB,
or 116.7% of the original plan. In which, the national poverty reduction grant was 228.50 million
RMB, or 140.2% of the original plan; the work for food fund was 40.48 million RMB or 46% of
the original plan; the national poverty reduction loan was 218.21 million RMB or 84.6% of the
original plan; the counterpart fund from municipal and county governments was 26.54 million
RMB or 41.4% of the original plan; and the counterpart fund from line agencies was 58.61
million RMB, or 319.7% of the original plan; the farmer's contribution and self-raising fund
amounted to 267.33 million RMB, or 209.7% of the original plan.

3. PROJECT ASSESSMENT

3.1 Assessment of Project Objectives and Implementation

        The coverage of project fund and activities to the poverty villages and households
gradually increased annually. Based on the Poverty Monitoring Report prepared by the National
Statistical Bureau, as of the end of 2005, 2,547 villages have been involved in the project
implementation. About 95.6% of project households with a total of 1.04 million of beneficiaries
participated in two or more project activities with an average per household investment of 1,387.2
RMB.

        Poverty population was also significantly reduced. Based on the poverty monitoring
statistics from the National Statistical Bureau, the poverty population in project villages was
reduced to10.8% in 2004 with a reduction of 16.6%age points from 27.4% in 1999, while the
poverty population in non-project villages was reduced to 12.4% with a reduction of 8.3
percentage points from 20.7%. The reduction of poverty population in project villages is greater
than that in non-project villages. In 2004, the poverty gap indicator in project villages dropped to
0.4% from 5.4% in 1999 with a reduction of 5 percentage points.

        Per capita net income and grain production in rural area have increased steadily. In 2004,
the per capita net income reached 1,256 RMB in project villages, with 66% increase from 756.6
RMB in 1999 which is 25 percentage points higher than that of non-project villages. The
designed project targets of 946 RMB per capita for the 12 original project counties and 1,200
RMB per capita for the 7 new project counties have been achieved. In 2005, the average grain
production in project villages reached 361 kg, with 53.6% increase from 235 kg in 1999. The
designed project target of per capita grain production of 320 kg in project area has been achieved.
During the 7 years period from 1999 to 2005, the per capita grain production for low-income
households in the project villages increased at an average rate of 7.4% annually.

        The basic production and living conditions in project area have been significantly
improved. In 2005, 47.9% of project households in project villages had access to safe drinking
water, with an increase of 18.6 percentage points from that in 1999. Of which, 64.8% lived within
100 meter from the water sources. 100% of project villages were covered by rural electricity
network. The newly increased terracing land amounted to 23,343 ha (350,000 mu) with an
average of 1.5 mu per household. The newly increased orchard reached 29,567 ha (444,000 mu),
with an average of 1.9 mu per household. The newly increased irrigated land reached 31,333 ha
(470,000 mu), with an average of over 2 mu per household.

        The ecological environment has been effectively protected in the project area. During the
7-year project implementation, the plantation area increased by 31,313 ha for grain crops, 19,347
ha for cash crops and 29,567 ha for cash tree crops, which has greatly increased the green
coverage in the project area. Meanwhile, the large scale cash tree plantation has significantly
improved reservation of water sources, reduced water and soil erosion, and greatly improved the



                                                  39

efficiency of resource use. The newly increased number of livestock reached about 600,000 heads.
The pen-fed practices, forage growing alongside house, road, river and field, improved
management of pastures and crop stalks brought positive impact on the agriculture ecological
system.

        Farmers' skills on science and technology have also been improved. By the technical
training under the project, over 92% of project households received various kinds of technical
training, and learned at least one kind of practical skill for cropping in addition to grain
production. The skill of production and capacity of self-management for household were
significantly improved.

3.2 Assessment of Project Economic Benefit

        Cash flow analysis of the main production activities showed that the net present value of
the project is 821.86 million RMB, and the financial IRR is 20.5% which is about 2.3 percentage
points lower than the PAD estimate of 22.8%. This was mainly due to the reduced contribution
from the Labor Mobility component (52%) which was terminated in 2001. From the project
financial analysis point of view, the project in general is very successful with an IRR 8
percentage points higher than the discount rate of 12%.

3.3 Assessment of Environmental Impact

        The overall process of project design and implementation was based on poverty reduction,
focused on the comprehensive agricultural development activities, and integrated rural
infrastructure improvement including rural road, water cisterns, terracing, watershed control etc.
All technical standards adopted in the project were in line with the environmental protection
criteria. The implementation of the project has increased the forestland area and surface
vegetation, which has greatly improved the forest coverage, reserved water resources, reduced
water and soil erosion. More importantly, it also has promoted the comprehensive treatment of
ecological system, improved the quality of environment, and finally realized the harmonized
development and balance between production and environment.

3.4 Assessment of Project Management

        During the project preparation and implementation, Gansu carried out independent project
management with support and guidance from the State Poverty Reduction Leading Group Foreign
Capital Poverty Reduction Project Management Center (FCPPMC) and the World Bank
consultants. To ensure the successful implementation of the project management, a three-
dimension project management structure was established i.e. Project Leading Group (at
provincial, municipal, county and township), PMO (township stations, village implementation
group) and Technical Advisory Group with PMOs as the main body in the vertical project
management system. The PMOs at all levels played a very important role in coordination with the
relevant agencies such as Planning and Development Commission, Financial Bureau etc. to
integrate vertical and horizontal efforts and ensure smooth project implementation.

        Project management agencies involved in specific management work at all levels took
their respective responsibilities in the areas such as project planning, procurement, financial
management, and document recording etc. They performed well in project supervision, project
inspection, monitoring, providing technical training and demonstration, and encouraging farmers'
participation.

3.5 Assessment of the World Bank Performance

        The World Bank task manager and task team played an important role during the project
preparation and implementation. They introduced the advanced and modern international anti-
poverty theory and concept to adapt them to the local actual conditions within project area and



                                                  40

develop a localized and more adaptive poverty reduction theory and approach in Gansu. They
also introduced the advanced and scientific management theory and practices from the World
Bank to establish and improve project operation mechanism and management procedures.
Through supervision, the Bank team identified issues, made recommendations and reached
agreements with the Chinese counterparts to resolve problems, improve project management and
ensure smooth project implementation. The Bank team's diligent and pragmatic working style,
the working attitude of seeking truth from the facts and devotion set an excellent example and
model for project management entities in Gansu. This has greatly contributed to the improvement
of overall project management, quality and efficiency.

        With the change of market demand, some of the planned project activities became less
prospective than expected and some project households were unwillingly to implement those
project activities. Unit cost of some rural infrastructure activities was set too low at appraisal. The
effectiveness and efficiency of the project implementation, procurement and reimbursement were
thus constrained. The project was planned during project preparation, implemented through
several years, and adjusted once at the mid-term review. Since 2002, based on the actual
condition in Gansu, the World Bank has agreed to annual project adjustments. This practice
allowed project counties to make project adjustments in line with sector development and market
demand and significantly improved the economic benefit. The World Bank developed a set of
standardized and efficient procurement guidelines which integrated the principles of openness,
fairness, justice, efficiency into the whole procurement process. There guidelines greatly ensured
the transparency and competition and also achieved the economy and efficiency for procurement
during the project implementation. Although procurement through shopping and bidding was
scientific and well established, this was not suitable for procurement of live goods such as
seedling and livestock. Requested by Gansu province in 2002, the World Bank agreed to modify
the procedures for procurement of live goods. Consequently, Gansu designed so called "Image
Receipt" for project households to participate in the shopping procedures which has brought great
convenience to the project procurement, accelerated the project progress, improved the quality
and efficiency of the project implementation, and increased enthusiasm of farmers in the project.

        The World Bank team has been attaching great attention to the opinions from Chinese
counterpart with clear response and feedback. However, it usually took too long for us to receive
such response and feedback.

4. EXPERIENCES AND LESSONS

4.1 Main Successful Experiences

        Great attentions from leadership to ensure a successful project implementation;

        Well established project management structure and close cooperation among government
line agencies to ensure the smooth project implementation;

        Investigation, identification, analysis of and resolution to problems as the main practice to
improve project management skills;

        Establishment of demonstration villages (sites) and dissemination of experience to bring
project implementation forward;

        Being practical and localizing international experiences to implement the project with
flexibility;

        Improving skills of project management staff at all levels through training;

        Increasing capacity of project households' participation in project through technical
support;



                                                  41

        Exploring the improved mechanism for management of poverty reduction fund;

        Exploring the participatory whole-village approach model for poverty reduction
programs;

        Integrating World Bank supervision missions, learning activities, guidance, training, and
capacity building to jointly improve the capacity of project management and implementation.

4.2 Main Lessons

        Too dispersed project locations, too complex and wide-range project activities, too
difficult tasks and too high costs;

        Increased difficulties in financing due to failure in delivery of some committed
counterpart fund;

        Lack of institutional set-up for post-completion project management and operations as a
result of unstable project management offices.

        In general, implementation of the project in Gansu has reduced poor population year by
year, increased farmers' incomes steadily, significantly improved the basic living conditions,
effectively protected the ecological environment, and basically achieved the expected project
objectives. This not only promoted the all-around social development in the project area, but also
laid a solid foundation for poverty reduction, development and construction of new socialist
countryside in the new century.




                                                 42

                        Inner Mongolia Project Leading Group Office
                                          October 2006

       Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region (IMAR) was confirmed as a project Region for
China Western Poverty Reduction Project in July 1997. The project area comprised 15 original
project banners/counties and 6 added project banners/counties. The project preparation was
carried out from 1997 to 1999. The project activities under retroactive financing started in 1999.
The project implementation period was 2000-2005. Additional IDA Credit was added to the
project in 2001 and the added project activities have been under implementation since 2002. The
mid-term review was carried out in 2002 according to the requirements of the project construction.
Wengniute Banner and Huade County were chosen as project pilot banner/county for ICR
preparation in June 2005. The ICR preparation for the overall project was carried out in 2006.

1. PROJECT DESIGN

1.1 Project Scope

        According to the selection criteria of project area, 15 banners/counties were selected as
project area: Damao Banner, Guyang County, Wuchuan County, Siziwang Banner, Chayouzhong
Banner, Chayouhou Banner, Shangdu County, Huade County, Taipusi Banner, Duolun County,
Keshenketeng Banner, Linxi County, Balinyou Banner, Wengniute Banner and Keyouzhong
Banner. 6 banners and counties were added as new project area in 2001. They are Zhungeer
Banner, Helingeer County, Qingshuihe County, Kulun Banner, Aiman Banner and Aohan Banner.

Table 1: Project Coverage
                                  No.                            Poverty
League/        Project Banner/ project      No.    Population   population   Poverty      Poverty

Municipality County            township   project in project    in project  Household population

                                / sumu    village     area         area      covered      covered

                                   6        42       91,415       53,688      10,494       39,877
Baotou         Guyang
               Damao               8        45       74,242       26,500      7,760        31,816
Eerduosi       Zhungeer            4        28       23,159       9,848       3,612        13,628
               Wuchuan             10       19      170,317       49,800      8,688        33,796
Hohhot         Helingeer           6        13      187,646       48,256      3,210        12,845
               Qingshuihe          7        15       76,602       17,698      3,168        13,305

               Chayouhou           8        32      214,576       45,792      11,448       45,792
               Chayouzhong         5        27       54,955       37,164      9,389        38,037
Wulanchabu     Shangdu             8        13      147,741       48,168      12,598       38,788
               Huade               4        15      161,261       62,226      10,353       36,681
               Siziwang            9        43       98,288       44,331      16,707       51,558

Xilinguole     Duolun              5        23       52,881       32,000      8,848        34,508
               Taipusi             7        57      211,632       33,668      10,386       35,946
               Balinyou            9        46       68,587       35,894      9,627        39,346
               Keshenketeng        9        25       46,156       30,874      8,775        33,098
Chifeng.       Wengniute           17       93      179,089       47,788      16,682       64,777
               Linxi               12       38      236,377       96,380      7,948        30,675
               Aohan               6        14       24,464       16,017      3,844        15,389

Tongliao       Kulun               5        25       19,748       14,760      3,823        15,828
               Aiman               5        19       17,451       14,368      3,507        14,620
Xingan         Keyouzhong          7        51       39,575       33,025      9,199        43,249
Total          21                 163      1127     2,285,905    784,187     180,066      683,559




                                                 43

1.2. Project Component and Investment

        Project components were finalized based on the project design, the project objectives, and
current poverty situation through household survey, comprehensive appraisal and rectification at
the Regional level. Project components comprised: (1) Land and Household Development, the
project's key component including mainly cropping, animal husbandry, forestry forage and
relevant training; (2) Irrigation and Land Improvement including mainly development and
utilization of water resource to support the sustainable development of cropping and animal
husbandry in the project area; (3) Rural Infrastructure; (4) Rural Enterprises; (5) Public Health;
and (6) Institutional Building and Project Management. These components included 62 project
activities. The comprehensive project adjustment was carried out in 2002.

Table 2: Investment by Project Component (Unit: '0000 RMB)

 Component                                   PAD Target       Added Target    Adjusted Target in 2002

 Land and Household Development               42,423.85         13,222.09            67,800.68
 Irrigation and Land Improvement              16,098.75          3,857.22            20,064.00
 Rural Infrastructure                          5,201.92                               1,842.72
 Rural Enterprises                             2,225.20          161.64               3,067.60
 Public Health                                 2,000.00                                381.34
 Institutional   Building    and    Project
 Management                                    2,403.23          332.05               2,716.94

 Total Base Cost                              70,352.95         17,573.00            95,873.00
 Total Cost                                 83,000.00        18,913.00         98,736.00

1.3. Project Objectives

        The overall project objective is to reduce the incidence of absolute poverty in remote and
inaccessible villages of the project provinces. The project would empower poor households in the
selected poor counties to raise their incomes, through increased grain and livestock production
sufficient to meet the basic needs of food and clothing and, in many cases, also generate a
marketable surplus to improve living standards, establishment of alternative income generation
activities in poor rural areas, improvement of rural infrastructure and enhanced access to basic
social services such as health and education would also increase the living standards of poor rural
households.

        The main specific targets of the project included the following: the per capita net income
of farmers (herders) of over 1,300 RMB; per capita annual grain production of over 500 kg in
farming areas with 2-3 mu of base farmland including 0.5 mu of newly increased irrigated land;
over 90% of farmer (herder) households in the project area with 1-2 labor/household who learned
1-2 technical skills to improve farming and livestock production; and further improved
environment and infrastructure for farming and livestock production in the project area.

1.4 World Bank Loan/Credit and Project Investment

        The original allocation of World Bank Loan/Credit was SDR19, 705,000 and
US$23,300,000 with 17 years of maturity including 5 years of grace period for the Credit and 20
years of maturity including 5 years of grace period for the Loan. In 2001, an additional allocation
of SDR7, 881,000 was made available to IMAR and the implementation of the added project
activities started in 2002. The condition of the added Credit was 15 years of maturity including 3
years of grace period. Therefore, the total World Bank Loan/Credit amounted to SDR27,586,000
and US$23,300,000.




                                                 44

       The total planned investment was 1,019 million RMB (actual investment at 987 million
RMB due to fluctuation of exchange rate) including 506.7 million RMB from the World Bank
and 512.3 million RMB as counterpart fund.

       Project cost estimated for the original project banners/counties was 830 million RMB,
including 415 million RMB financed by the World Bank and 415 million RMB contributed by
the counterpart fund. Project cost estimated for the new added project banners/counties was 189
million RMB, including 91.7 million RMB financed by the World Bank and 97.3 million RMB
contributed by the counterpart fund (of which, 12.518 million RMB was for dairy enterprise in
Helingeer County).

2. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

2.1 Project Progress

       Implementation of the Poverty Reduction Project in Inner Mongolia war carried out from
1999 to the end of 2005. By the end of 2005, the cumulative investment was 1,012.35 million
RMB, 102.5% of the mid-term review target. The investment is detailed in the following tables.

Table 3: Investment by Component (Unit: '0000 RMB)

                                           PAD        Added      MTR                     % of
 Component                                Target      Target     Target      Actual      MTR
                                                                                         Target
 Land and Household Development          42,423.85   13,222.09  67,800.68   76,405.11     113
 Irrigation and Land Improvement         16,098.75   3,857.22   20,063.99   16,233.53     81
 Rural Infrastructure                    5,201.92               1,842.72    2,047.64      111
 Rural Enterprise                        2,225.20     161.64    3,067.60    2,898.49      94
 Public Health                           2,000.00                381.34      371.34       97
 Institutional Building and Project
 Mgt.                                    2,403.23     332.05    2,716.94    3,278.87      121

 Total Base Cost                         70,352.95   17,573.00  95,873.26  101,234.98
 Total Project Cost                      83,000.00   18,913.00  98,736.00  101,234.98     102

Table 4: Investment by Year (Unit: '0000 RMB)
 Year            1999      2000        2001      2002      2003      2004     2005       Total

 Investment    7,708.3  16,903.2 17,723.3 18,712.3       17,803.7 16,350.8 6,033.4      101,235

% of the total
investment       7.6       16.7        17.5      18.5       17.6     16.2      6.0       100.0




                                                 45

Table 5: Investment by Project Banner/County (Unit: '0000 RMB)
 Project                PAD           Added          MTR             Actual         % of MTR
 Banner/County       Investment     Investment     Investment      Investment       Investment

 Guyang               5,067.21                      5,229.72         5,347.42          102.3
 Damao                4,185.34                      4,388.69         4,663.23          106.3
 Zhungeer                            2,241.01       2,241.01         2,369.31          105.7
 Qingshuihe                          2,241.00       2,253.63         2,222.63          98.6
 Helingeer                           3,492.82       4,905.22         4,695.17          95.7
 Wuchuan              4,648.00                      4,767.15         4,592.01          96.3
 Siziwang             6,847.50        336.15        6,597.75         6,360.94          96.4
 Chayouhou            6,804.92        336.15        7,224.42         6,459.15          89.4
 Chayouzhong          5,262.96                      6,246.91         5,912.89          94.7
 Huade                4,921.99        336.15        5,795.00         5,516.21          95.2
 Shangdu              6,519.16        336.15        7,438.13         7,264.96          97.7
 Duolun               4,171.84                      4,416.40         4,336.68          98.2
 Taipusi              4,906.80                      5,318.52         5,040.08          94.8
 Keshenketeng         4,651.12                      4,567.25         4,542.66          99.5
 Linxi                5,123.36        336.15        4,865.37         5,128.59          105.4
 Wengniute            7,999.39        426.91        7,665.90         8,004.71          104.4
 Aohan                               2,241.00       2,081.52         2,103.21          101.0
 Balinyou             5,096.20                      4,893.53         4,887.71          99.9
 Kulun                               2,240.99       2,241.02         2,243.01          100.1
 Aiman                               2,241.00       2,417.50         2,322.45          96.1
 Keyouzhong           6,142.15                      6,142.15         6,198.75          100.9
 Total                82,347.94                    101,696.80       100,211.80         98.5


2.2. Household-based Project Investment

        There were 683,559 people in 180,066 households in 1,127 villages and 161 townships in
project area, that were 27.5% and 29.7% respectively of total households and population in
IMAR. The investment for production-related components was all made to the households. The
fund directly invested to the household amounted to 98,521,000 RMB during the over-7-year
project implementation period. The average investment intensity was 1,441.3 RMB/person
including 665.9 RMB of World Bank loan, 310.9 RMB of grant, 193.1 RMB of domestic loan
and 271.4 RMB of farmer's own contribution.

        Of the total beneficiary households, 53,873 households implemented 1 project activity
accounting for 29.9%; 46,046 households implemented 2 project activities accounting for 25.6%;
80,147 households implemented 3 or more project activities accounting for 44.5%. The
households that implemented 3 or more project activities are in the majority which strengthened
the risk tolerance capability of these households and was conducive to exerting comprehensive
benefits through implementation of multiple project activities.




                                                46

2.3 Project Procurement

        The total value of procurement after mid-term adjustment was 959.46 million RMB (base
cost) and 987.361 million RMB (total cost). The actual procurement under the project amounted
to 1,012.62 million RMB by end of 2005.

2.3.1 Procurement by expenditure category

Table 6: Procurement by Expenditure Category
Unit: '0000 RMB

                                                        MTR                             % of
 Expenditure Category                PAD Target         Target   Actual                 MTR
                                                                                        Target
 1. Works                              25,984.93     28,642.70      27,263.21         95.2
 2. Goods                              37,895.33     60,929.22      69,475.02         114.0
 3. Training and Study Tour            1,985.44       2,653.25       2,404.28         90.6
 4. Working Capital                     226.40        715.32          13.00            1.8
 5. Health                             2,000.00       682.67         371.34           54.4
 6. Management fee for Village and
 Township                               557.57        685.15         379.40           55.4

 7. Other management fee                830.00        946.20         993.64           105.0
 8. Monitoring                          872.36        691.76         309.17           44.7
 9. Total                              70,352.03     95,946.28     101,209.05         105.5

2.3.2 Procurement by procurement method

Table 7: Procurement by Procurement Method (Unit: '0000 RMB)
 Procurement Method                    PAD Target    MTR Target   Actual     % of MTR Target

 1. International Competitive Bidding     462.00        691.13     1,102.36         159.5

 2. National Competitive Bidding         3,066.39      9,949.72    7,064.85          71.0

 3. National Shopping                   39,816.49      53,662.02   63,798.80        118.9

 4. Direct Contracting                   4,458.57      4,757.18    4,912.46         103.3

 5. Force Account                       15,466.07      19,209.81   18,824.03         98.0

 6. Other                                7,082.50      7,676.43    5,506.55          71.7

 7. Total Base Cost                     70,352.03      95,946.28  101,209.00        105.5

 Total Cost                             83,000.00      98,736.11  101,209.00        102.5


2.4 Application of Project Fund

2.4.1 Reimbursement

        The total investment in IMAR was 1,012.35 million RMB. By the end of October 2006, a
total of SDR27.535 million (equivalent to US$36.915 million) and US$23.3 million have been
reimbursed.




                                               47

Table 8: Disbursement (Unit: '0000 RMB)

 Expenditure Category                   Allocated         Applied         Amount      % of Applied
                                         Amount           Amount          Received       Amount
 Work                                   27,263.00         7,852.90        4,205.51          54
 Goods                                  69,475.00        35,767.70        38,021.41        147
 Consultants' Services &
 Training                                2,404.00         2,753.90        1,901.70          69

 Monitoring Activities                    309.00          290.00            49.65           17

 Total                                  10,129.00        46,664.00        44,178.27         95

        The exchange rate between SDR and USD and between USD and RMB has been
fluctuating during the 7 years of the project implementation period since 1999. By the end of
2005, the total loss due to exchange rate fluctuation has amounted to 10.63 million RMB. This
caused certain negative impact to the post-completion project management and sub-loan recovery.

2.4.2 Counterpart fund

        The total planned counterpart fund for the project was 529.67 million RMB and the actual
amount contributed reached 544.60 million RMB, 102.8% of the plan. The detailed information is
shown in the following table.

Table 9: Counterpart Fund
Unit: '0000 RMB
 Source                                  MTR Target              Actual                 %
 Financial poverty reduction fund          8,481.58             7,621.41              89.86
 Work for Food Fund                        8,623.58             5,406.96              62.70
 Loan (Agriculture Bank of
 China)                                    7,193.24             4,378.90              60.88

 Loan (RCC)                                                     9,203.32
 Fund from League/Municipality             2,479.40             2,009.84              81.06
 Fund from Banner/County                   7,744.69             6,565.58              84.78
 Farmer/Herder Contribution               15,768.00            19,273.83              122.23
 Total                                    52,966.90            54,459.84              102.82

2.4.3 Sub-loan recovery

        The project began to collect interest in 2000 and principal in 2005. The government at all
levels in the project area pays great attention to sub-loan recovery. They shortened the repayment
period of those sub-loans for cropping and livestock activities with higher returns, increased
investment to project activities with larger investment and difficulties in repayment, such as
infrastructure activities, and used government fund for repayment to exempt or reduce debt of
farmer/herder households. By the end of December 2005, the total amount of principals and
interests due was 52.80 million RMB and 12.40 million RMB respectively. Actual recovered
amount was 52.27 million RMB of principals and 10.88 million RMB of interests with a recovery
rate of 99% and 88% respectively for the principals and interests due.




                                                  48

3. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

3.1 Achievement of Project Targets

        The per capita net income, grain production and number of livestock in the project area
were all above the projected targets upon the completion of project implementation.

Table 10: Main Project Targets (Unit: RMB, kg, su [sheep unit])
        Projected Target                       Actual                      % of Project Target

 Net Income     Grain   Livestock Net Income     Grain    Livestock Net Income     Grain   Livestock
  RMB/pc        kg/pc     su/pc     RMB/pc       kg/pc      su/pc      RMB/pc      kg/pc     su/pc


    1,128       500                  1,996        829       4.83         177        166      153



3.2 Reduced Poverty Population and Poverty Incidence

        After the implementation of the project, the total number of absolute poverty population
was reduced by 530,772 persons from 784,200 pre-project to 253,400.

Table 11: Absolute Poverty Line (1999 - 2003)
Unit: RMB/person
         Year               1999            2000             2001            2002          2003

 Project household           654             634             637              649           672

        Viewing from 1999 to 2003 as a whole, the poverty incidence in project villages
decreased by 10.3 percentage points from 16.4% in 1999 to 6.1% in 2003 in comparison to a
decrease of 8.9 percentage points in non project area. This indicated the more effective reduction
of poverty population due to improved production conditions through project investment in
project villages and the effect of poverty reduction as a result of the project implementation.
However in the severe drought year of 2002, the poverty degree pricked up in both project and
non project villages. This indicated an insufficiency of the project in dealing with natural
disasters. The poverty incidence in both project and non-project villages has decreased steadily
since 2000 and the poverty incidence was almost the same in 2003 in project and non-project
villages.

Table 12: Poverty Incidence (%)
         Year                1999             2000            2001             2002          2003

 Project villages            16.4             19.4            18.5             13.3           6.1
 Non project
 villages                    14.9             18.4            19.9             12.8           6.0

3.3 Improved Living Conditions

3.3.1 Living expenses: Based on survey data in 2003, the living expenses was 1,633 RMB/person
in project villages. Of which, expenses for transportation, communication, education,
entertainment increased significantly. The proportion of Food expenses reduced to 47.1% which
showed an improved living condition of farmer/herder households in the project area.

3.3.2 Food consumption. The average per person food consumption in the project villages in 2003
was 227.8 kg of grain, 44.3 kg of vegetable, 4.2 kg of edible oil, 23 kg of meat and poultry, 2.8



                                                 49

kg of eggs, and 10.4 kg of fruits. Compared with consumption in the previous year, consumption
of meat, poultry and eggs increased significantly while other consumptions decreased to some
extent.

3.4 Improved Infrastructure

3.4.1 Rural electrification. By 2003, 98% of the project villages have been connected to local
power grids.

Table 13: Basic Infrastructure in Villages
 Indicator                                                Project Village     Non-project Village
 % of villages with electrical lights                          98.0                  100.0
 % of villages with access to roads                            94.0                  80.0
 % of villages with access to telephone service                82.0                  70.0
 % of villages with cable broadcasting service                 34.0                  43.3
 % of villages with TV coverage                               100.0                  96.7

3.4.2 Drinking water. By 2003, 76.8% of households in the project villages have gained access to
safe drinking water.

Table 14: Household Drinking Water Supply (% access)
      Year                                    Project Village             Non-project Village

 1999                                             64.8                            64.7
 2000                                             63.8                           71.0%
 2001                                             74.2                            71.3
 2002                                             73.8                           65.3%
 2003                                             76.8                            75.3

3.4.3 Public Health. The survey in 2003 showed poor indicators in the public health sector such
as % of clinics, % of qualified health worker, % of qualified midwife, immunization rate of
children under age 5. This demonstrated that public health service was still the weakness in the
poverty reduction programs which required further improvement.

Table 15: Public Health Services
 Indicator                                            Project Village      Non-project Village

 % of villages with clinics                                56.0                    70.0

 % of villages with qualified health worker                86.0                    83.3

 % of villages with qualified midwife                      64.0                    60.0

 Immunization rate of children under age 5                 100.0                  100.0




                                                50

4. EXPERIENCES AND LESSONS

        Through 7 years of project implementation, PMO staff at all levels learned valuable
experiences and lessons from their exploration and practices which are summarized below.

        Sufficient attention of the leaderships and strong support by the line government agencies
are the keys to a successful project implementation;

        A well established project management structure and competent project staff are the
foundation for a successful project implementation;

        Provision of counterpart fund in full amount and in a timely manner is the primary
guarantee for a smooth project implementation;

        Strengthened project management is the important security for a smooth project
implementation;

        Creative approach with open mindset is an effective way to improve project
implementation effects;

        Close cooperation and mutual trust between the World Bank and Chinese counterpart is a
critical condition for project success.

5. PROJECT ASSESSMENT

5.1 Assessment of Project Sustainability

        Project sustainability is highly likely through successful implementation of project
components. The sustainability is ensured by structural change of cropping, improvement of
farmers' production skills, industrial development in local agricultural sector, improvement of
livestock raising models, improved infrastructure for agriculture production and livelihood,
integration of irrigation and agriculture, increased income of participating farmer households, and
over 800 project management staff at regional, league, banner, sumu and gacha levels.

5.2 Assessment of Models and Management Mechanism for Poverty Reduction

        Project implementation provided excellent opportunity for exploring new models and
management mechanism for poverty reduction. These include poverty reduction in whole-village
approach, farmer participation, house-hold based technical training, provision of facilities for
project management, development and application of management information system and
effective internal and external project monitoring.

5.3 Assessment of Impact on Ethnic Minority Development

        86.7% of the total ethnic minority population in project areas is project beneficiaries.
Through project implementation, their needs for basic food and clothes, education and health are
satisfied, their willingness to participate is enhanced, and their production and management skills
are improved through training and practice.

5.4 Assessment of Woman Development

        About half of the total project beneficiaries are women who benefited from women
specific project training and production activities such as cropping and livestock raising.
Women's increased income through project participation improved their social status in
respective households as well as in local communities.




                                                   51

5.5 Assessment of Institutional Development and Capacity Building

       The project has a major impact on capacity building of officials involved in project
management at all levels. They played a key role in project implementation and became the most
valuable personnel in many local government poverty offices. Some are promoted to local leaders.
The project also improved development capacities of project villages in project management and
in coordinated economic, social and environmental development.

5.6 Assessment of Environmental Impact

       Based on results of environmental monitoring, the project's overall impact on
environment is positive and meets the targets set in the Project Appraisal Document. Specially,
remarkable achievements have been made in the areas of feed balance and vegetation coverage.
Environmental impact caused by application of pesticide and plastic farm mulch has been limited.

5.7 Assessment of the World Bank Performance

       World Bank performance has been very satisfactory throughout the project preparation
and implementation. World Bank officials and consultants played a critical and guiding role
during all stages of the project. Their practical and serious working style left all Chinese
counterparts a good impression; their dedication and commitment ensured project progress and
quality; and their recommendations on issues ensured a smooth project implementation.

       However, frequent change of the World Bank's project officials during the project period
caused discontinuation in providing consistent project guidance. In addition, official feedback
from the World Bank usually took too long.




                                                  52

Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

  1. Project Appraisal Document
  2. Legal Agreements and Amendments
  3. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires, 1999-2006
  4. Poverty Monitoring Reports of World Bank Western Poverty Reduction Project (1999-
      2005), State Statistical Bureau of China.
  5. Implementation Completion Report, Inner Mongolia PMO, November 2006
  6. Implementation Completion Report, Gansu PMO, November 2006
  7. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Tianshui Zhongxing Company
      (Edible Fungus Production and Processing), September 2006
  8. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Tianshui Yuyou Company
      (Rabbit Breeding and Processing), September 2006
  9. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Tianshui Xingchen Company
      (Lili Bulb Breeding), September 2006
  10. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Tianshui Lupeng Company
      (Potted Flower Breeding and Extension), September 2006
  11. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Linfeng Ornament Company
      (Grass and Flower Breeding and Extension), September 2006
  12. Implementation Completion Report (in Chinese), Gansu Minxian Jindadi Starch
      Company (Starch Processing), September 2006
  13. Implementation Completion Reports (in Chinese), 21 Participating Counties/Banners of
      Inner Mongolia, August 2006
  14. Implementation Completion Reports (in Chinese), 19 Participating Counties of Gansu
      Province, August 2006
  15. Financial and Economic Analysis Working Note, November 2006
  16. ICR Review Report on Rural Enterprise Sub-projects, Lin Wanlong, October 2006
  17. Participatory Village Development Planning (in Chinese), Gansu Poverty Reduction
      Office
  18. PRA Manual (in Chinese), Gansu Poverty Reduction Office




                                             53

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 29994R

                                 94°                                                    96°                              98°                               100°                      102°                        104°                                                    106°                                 108°         42°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CHINA                            110°

                                                                                                                                                                                                   MONGOLIA                                                                         GANSU AND INNER MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GANSU PROVINCE

 42°                                                      To Ürümqi                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ORIGINAL PROJECT COUNTIES/DISTRICTS                    ORIGINAL PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COUNTIES:
                                                                                                   (Administered
                                                                                                   (Administered                                                                                                                                                                        ADDED PROJECT COUNTIES/DISTRICTS                            ZHANGJIACHUAN
            XINJIANGXINJIANG                                                                            under
                                                                                                        under
                                                                                                        Subei)
                                                                                                        Subei)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      QIN'AN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCE ROADS                                              QINGSHUI              40°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GANGU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL ROADS                                              WUSHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                          NEI MONGOL
                                                                                                                                                                                          NEI MONGOL                                                                                    PROVINCE CAPITAL                                            MIN XIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                             For detail see
                                                                                                                                                                                             For detail see                                                                                                                                         LI XIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        COUNTY/DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 29995
                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 29995                                                                                                                                            XIHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                       KANG XIAN
                                                                                                                                            JINT
                                                                                                                                            JINTA
                                                                                               ANXIANXI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WUDU
                                                                                                                       YUMENYUMEN                                                                                                                                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WEN XIAN
                             DUNHUANG
                             DUNHUANG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                    DANGCHANG

 40°                                                                                                                             JIAYUGUAN
                                                                                                                                 JIAYUGUAN                                                                                                                                                                                                          QINZHOU
                                                                                                                                                           GAOTIGAOTI                                                                                                                                                                               MAIJI
                                                                                                                                          JIUQUANJIUQUAN                                                                                                                                                                                            WEIYUAN

                                                                                                                                                                       LINZE
                                                                                                                                                                       LINZE                                                                                                                                                                        HUIXIAN
                                                                                                                                    (Administered
                                                                                                                                    (Administered                                                                MINQIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MINQIN                                                                                                                             CHENGXIAN
                           AKESAIAKESAI                                                        SUBEI
                                                                                               SUBEI                                under Sunan)
                                                                                                                                    under Sunan)                          ZHANGYE
                                                                                                                                                                          ZHANGYE                                                                                                                                                                   LIANGDANG             38°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHUANGLANG

                                                                                                                                                                                                JINCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                JINCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                               MINLE
                                                                                                                                                                               MINLESHANDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANDAN

                                                                                                                                                                                            YONGCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                            YONGCHANG                                                                                          He)

                                                                                                                                                                                                             WUWEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                             WUWEI

                                                                                                                                                                                          SUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                          SUNAN                                                                                          (Huang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GULANGGULANG                                                                  To Yinchuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              R.                                                                                          110°
 38°                       0             50                  100            150                                                                                                                                                                                         Yellow  NINGXIANINGXIA
                                                   KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                  JINGTAIJINGTAI                      To Yinchuan                                                         SHAANXISHAANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TIANZHUTIANZHU

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 HUANHUAN                 HUACHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUACHI
   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Yan'an 36°
   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                                 BAIYINBAIYIN
   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QING-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              QING-
   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                               To Xining       YONGDENGYONGDENG                                   JINGYUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JINGYUAN                                                      YANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YA
   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                               LINXIALINXIA                                                                                HESHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HESHUI
                                                                                              96°                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZHEN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHEN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUINING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HUINING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                LANZHOU                                                                             YUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YUZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               YUZHONG                                                               XIFENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XIFENGNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NING
                                           RUSSIAN                                                                                         QINGHAIQINGHAI                                                           LANZHOULANZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DINGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DINGXI                                  PING-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PING-                         ZHENG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHENG-
                                        FEDERATION                                                                                                                                                             YONGJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                               YONGJING                                                                                       LIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LIANG                JING-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JING-    NINGNING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DONG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DONG-                                                    JING-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         JING-                                CHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NING                 HUA-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HUA-CHONG-CHONG-
                                                                                          HEILONGJIANG                                                                                                       JISHISHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                             JISHISHAN          XIANGZULINTAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XIANGZULINTAO                                                      ZHUANG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZHUANG-          XINXIN                               To Xi´an
                                                                                                                          36°                                                                  LINXIA SHI
                                                                                                                                                                                               LINXIA SHI                                                                                                      TING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINXIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LINXIA

                                                                                           JILIN                                                                                                                                 HEZHENGHEZHENGGUANGHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GUANGHE                          TONG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TONG-                LANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     LANG                     LINGTAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              LINGTAI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WEI                                                          To Xi´an
                            MONGOLIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           QIN'ANQIN'AN
                                       Area of Map                                                                                                                                                                                               KANGLEKANGLE      WEI-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   WEI-                                  ZHANGJIACHUANZHANGJIACHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YUAN LONGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   YUAN LONGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      He
                                                                NEI                                        Sea of                                                                                                                                                                 GANGU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GANGU
                                                             MONGOL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIJI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MAIJI
XINJIANG                                                                            LIAONING               Japan                                                                                               XIAHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               XIAHE                                                ZHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ZHANG                                 (BEIDAO)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (BEIDAO)                                               Wei
                                                                                              D.P.R. OF                                                                                                                                                                      WUSHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WUSHAN
                                                                                               KOREA                                                                                                                                                         LINTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AN
                                    For detail, see              BEIJING
                                                                 BEIJING                                                                                                                                                                                                          QINZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  QINZHOU               QINGSHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QINGSHUI
                                     IBRD 29995                                                                   JAPAN                                                                                                                                      LINT               (QINCHENG)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (QINCHENG)                                   To Xi´an                                     34°
                                                                      HEBEI  TIANJIN                REP. OF
                            GANSU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TIANSHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TIANSHUI
                                                             SHANXI                        Yellow    KOREA                                                                                                                                                           MINXIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MINXIAN
                                                                         SHANDONG           Sea                                                                                                                                  ZHUONIZHUONI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LI-LI-                       LIANG-LIANG-
               QINGHAI                      NINGXIA                                                                                                                                                             LUQU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                LUQU                                                                                     HUI-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HUI-   DANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DANG
                                                                                 JIANGSU                                                                                                                                                                                         XIANXIAN                XIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XIAN
                                                   SHAANXI      HENAN                                  East                                                                                                                                                          DANGCHANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     DANGCHANG            XIHEXIHE
                                                                           ANHUI                                                                                                                                                                 DIEBU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DIEBU
                                                                                                      China                                                                                                                                                                                       CHENG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHENG-
                                                                                           SHANGHAI    Sea                                                                                                                                                                                          XIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XIAN
      XIZANG                                                    HUBEI                                                                                                                                                                                                ZHOUQU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZHOUQU
                              SICHUAN
                                                                                   ZHEJIANG                                                                                                     MAQU
                                                                                                                                                                                                MAQU                                                                                              KANG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KANG-
      National Capital                             CHONGQING
                                                                         JIANGXI
                                                             HUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  WUDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    WUDU          XIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XIAN
      Original Project                                                                                                    34°
                                          GUIZHOU                               FUJIAN
      Provinces                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WENXIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WENXIAN
      Dropped Project                                                                                      PACIFIC
                           YUNNAN                                                          TAIWAN
      Province                                        GUANGXI     GUANGDONG                                OCEAN

      Province
        MYANMAR                                                             HONG KONG
                                                                       MACAO
      Boundaries                    VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                               SICHUANSICHUAN
      International           LAO
      Boundaries                P.D.R.                      HAINAN                       PHILIPPINES                                   98°                                  100°                         102°                                                        104°                          To Chengdu 106°                                         108°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MARCH 2007

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 29995R

                                 Area of Map
                                                     RUSSIAN                                                                                                  104°                                     108°                                        112°                                 116°                                                120°                                                              124°

                                                   FEDERATION

                                                                                                                                                                                               CHINA
                                                                                                    HEILONGJIANG                    52°
                                                                                                                                                            GANSU AND INNER MONGOLIA
                                        MONGOLIA
                                                                                                     JILIN                                                    POVERTY REDUCTION PROJECT
                                                                         NEI                                          Sea of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              52°
                                                                      MONGOL
XINJIANG                                                                                      LIAONING                Japan                                NEI MONGOL AUTONOMOUS REGION
                                                                                                        D.P.R. OF
                                                                          BEIJING
                          For detail, see                                 BEIJING                        KOREA
                           IBRD 29994                                                                                        JAPAN                                                    ORIGINAL PROJECT COUNTIES/BANNERS
                                                                               HEBEI  TIANJIN                 REP. OF
                                         GANSU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RUSSIAN
                                                                      SHANXI                         Yellow    KOREA                                                                  ADDED PROJECT COUNTIES/BANNERS
                                                                                  SHANDONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E'ERGUNA-YOUE'ERGUNA-YOU
                                                                                                      Sea
                           QINGHAI                   NINGXIA                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FEDERATION
                                                                                           JIANGSU                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E'ERGUNA-ZUOE'ERGUNA-ZUO
                                                            SHAANXI      HENAN                                  East                                                                  PROVINCE ROADS
                                                                                    ANHUI
                                                                                                                China
                                                                                                     SHANGHAI    Sea                                                                  NATIONAL ROADS                                                                                                   MANZHOULI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MANZHOULI                                                                                     ELUNCHUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ELUNCHUN
      XIZANG                                                             HUBEI                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Cita
                                          SICHUAN
                                                                                             ZHEJIANG                                                                                 PROVINCE CAPITAL
      National Capital                                      CHONGQING
                                                                                  JIANGXI                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CHENBA'ERHU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CHENBA'ERHU
                                                                      HUNAN                                                                                                           COUNTY/BANNER BOUNDARIES
      Original Project                              GUIZHOU                               FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 YAKESHI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AKESHI
      Provinces                                                                                                                                                                       PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MODAAW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      LIDAO'E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WARZU
      Dropped Project                                                                                                 PACIFIC       48°
                                        YUNNAN                                                        TAIWAN
      Province                                                 GUANGXI     GUANGDONG                                  OCEAN                                                           PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                Hulun                                                                                                     MOLIDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WO'ERZU
      Province         MYANMAR                                                       HONG KONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HAILA'ER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAILA'ER                                                                  ARONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ARONG
                                                                                MACAO                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Nur                                                                                                        D
      Boundaries                                VIETNAM                                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                               He

      International                       LAO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Herlen                                 EWENKE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EWENKE
      Boundaries                            P.D.R.                   HAINAN                        PHILIPPINES                                                     ORIGINAL PROJECT COUNTIES/BANNERS:                                                                               XINBA'ERHU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XINBA'ERHU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              YOU
                                                                                                                                                                               DA'ERANMAOMINGAN                       TAIPUSI
                                                                                                   100°                                                                                                                                                                                                     XINBA'ERHU-ZUOXINBA'ERHU-ZUO                                                                                                  48°



                                                                                                                                                                               SIZIWANG                               DUOLUN                                                                                                                                         ZALANTUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ZALANTUN                                  To Harbin
                                                                                                                                                                               CHAHA'ER-YOUYIZHONG                    KESHIKETENG                                                                                                                                                                              HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                               GUYANG                                 LINXI
                                                                                                                                                                               WUCHUAN                                BALIN-YOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZALIATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ZALIATE
  44°                                                                                                                                                                          CHAHA'ER-YOUYIHOU                      WENGNIUTE                                                                                                                               KE'ERQIN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KE'ERQIN-
                                                                                  0       50       100      150     200   250                                                                                                                                                                                                                     YOUYIQIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YOUYIQIAN
                                                                                                                                                                               HUADE                                  KE'ERQIN-YOUYIZHONG
                                                                                                    KILOMETERS                                                                 SHANGDU                                                                                                                                                         WULANHAOTEWULANHAOTE
       G                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      DONGWUZHUMUQINDONGWUZHUMUQIN
                                                                                                                                                                               ZHUNGEER
        NAIJ                                                                                                                                                                   QINGSHUIHE                                                                                                                                                         KEYOU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KEYOU-
                                                                                                                                                                               HELIN                                                                                                              HUOLINGUOLE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HUOLINGUOLE                                     ZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Changchun

            NI                                                                                                                                                                 KULUN                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TUQUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TUQUAN
                                                                                                                                                                               NAIMAN
              XINJIANGX                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XIWUZHUMUQIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XIWUZHUMUQIN
                                                                                                                                                                               AOHAN                                                                       ABAGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ABAGA
                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA                                                                                                                                                                LINXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LINXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUNITE-ZUO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SUNITE-ZUO
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ERLIANHAOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ERLIANHAOTE                                                                                                 BALIN-BALIN-                                 ZALUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ZALUTE                                                          JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XILINHAOTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XILINHAOTE                            ZUO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ZUO                  ALOKE'ERGINALOKE'ERGIN                         KE'ERQIN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KE'ERQIN-                                          44°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KAILUKAILU ZUOYIZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ZUOYIZHONG                       TONGLIAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TONGLIAO

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     SUNITE-SUNITE-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YOU                                                                      BALINYOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               BALINYOU                                                                              Xiliao He            To Siping

                                                                                EJINAEJINA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KE'ERQIN-KE'ERQIN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KESHIKETENG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KESHIKETENG                                                                                ZUOYIHOUZUOYIHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAOYOU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAOYOU-                                                               WENGNIUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WENGNIUTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZHENG-ZHENG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIZIWANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SIZIWANG                   HOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOU                 XIANG-XIANG-ZHENGLANZHENGLAN                                                                                KULUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KULUN
  40°                                                                                                                                                                               WULATE-
                                                                                                                                                                                    WULATE-                                                            XIANG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XIANG-      BAIBAI                                                                                       NAIMANNAIMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HUANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HUANG                                                CHIFENGCHIFENG
                       GANSUGANSU                                                                                                          WULATE-HOU
                                                                                                                                           WULATE-HOU                                ZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                     ZHONG          DAMAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                    DAMAO                                                                                                                               AOHANAOHAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DUOLUN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 DUOLUN                                                                                                                  To Shenyang
      For detail see
      For detail see                                                                                                                                                           WUYUAN
                                                                                                                                                                               WUYUAN                                                                  HUADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       HUADE       TAIPUSI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AIPUSI
                                                                                                                                        HANGJIN-HOU
                                                                                                                                        HANGJIN-HOU                                                                                                                                                       KALAQINKALAQIN
                       IBRD 29994
                       IBRD 29994                                                                                                                                                                                           CHAYOU-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CHAYOU-                SHANGDUSHANGDU                                                                                                           To Jinzhou
                                                                                                    ALASHAN-YOUALASHAN-YOU                                        LINHELINHE                                                                                                                                 NING-NING-
                                                                                                                                                                                        WULATE-
                                                                                                                                                                                        WULATE- GUYANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                GUYANG                       ZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ZHONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                           WUCHUAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                           WUCHUAN                                                  To Beijing                              CHENGCHENG
                                                                                                                                           DENGKOU
                                                                                                                                           DENGKOU                              Yellow  QIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                        QIAN                                                             JINING
                                                                                                                                                                                      R.                                 HOHHOTHOHHOT
                                                                                                                                                                                              BAOTOU
                                                                                                                                                                                              BAOTOU       TUMOTE-
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TUMOTE-                                                                                                                                                                     LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LIAONING
                                                                                                                                                                                                              ZUOZUO              ZHUOZI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ZHUOZI                 CHAHA'ER-YOUYIQIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Suizhong
                                                                                                                                   ALASHAN-ZUOALASHAN-ZUO          HANGJIN
                                                                                                                                                                   HANGJIN                            TUMOTE-TUMOTE-         LIANG-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             LIANG-
                                                                                                                                                                                          DALATE
                                                                                                                                                                                          DALATE        YOUYOU               CHENGCHENG                   XINGHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XINGHE
                                                                                                                                                                   DONGSHENG
                                                                                                                                                                   DONGSHENG                                            HELINHELIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                  TUOKETUOTUOKETUO                                        FENGZHEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          FENGZHEN
                                                                                                                                                              WUHAIWUHAI                              ZHUNGEERZHUNGEER                                                        BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To Xinzhou                                                                                                                                                                                        40°
                                                                                                                                                                ETUOKE
                                                                                                                                                                ETUOKE                   YIJINHUOLUO
                                                                                                                                                                                         YIJINHUOLUO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To Xinzhou
                         QINGHAIQINGHAI                                                                                                                                                                             QINGSHUIHE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    QINGSHUIHE
                                                                                                                                                                                     WUSHEN
                                                                                                                                                                                     WUSHEN



 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                         ETUOKE-QIANETUOKE-QIAN                                                                                   HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HEBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                              To Yulin              SHANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANXI
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                       104°         NINGXIA
                                                                                                                                  NINGXIA                       108°                 SHAANXI
                                                                                                                                                                                     SHAANXI                          112°                                                   116°                                                           120°                                                                          124°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARCH 2007

