Document of
The World Bank                  FILE CoPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2826-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979         April 21, 1980
Currency Unit          Cruzeiro (Cr$)          Cr$
US$1              =    Cr$26.85             Cr$48.14
Cr$1                   US$ 0.037             US$0.021
ACRONYMS
CEBRACE        Centro Brasileiro de Construcoes e Equipamentos Escolares
(Brazilian Center for School Construction and Equipment)
CNAE           Campanha Nacional de Alimentacao Escolar
(National School Meal Program)
CRHJP          Centro de Recursos Humanos Joao Pinheiro
(Joao Pinheiro Center for Human Resources)
FENAME         Fundacao Nacional de Material Escolar
(National Foundation for School Materials)
FNDE            Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da Educacao
(National Education Development Fund)
MEC            Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura
(Ministry of Education and Culture)
PMU             Project Management Unit
PROMUNICIPIO   Projeto de Coordenacao e Asistencia Tecnica ao Ensino Municipal
(Project for Coordination and Technical Assistance to
the Municipal Education System
OME            Orgao Municipal de Educacao
(Municipal Education Unit)
SEC            Secretaria de Educacao (e Cultura)
(State Secretariat of Education and Culture)
SEPS           Secretaria de Primeiro e Segundo Graus
(Secretariat of Primary and Secondary Education)
SPMU           State Project Management Unit
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - November
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$ 42.33)
corresponds to the cruzeiro buying price as of January 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:              US$32 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 8.25% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The objectives of the project, the Bank's fourth in the
education sector in Brazil, are to improve the coverage,
quality, and efficiency of basic education in the nine
northeastern states, where basic education has been
particularly deficient. It will assist the federal
government, the states, and 248 selected municipalities
to implement the first phase of a long-term national
basic education development plan aimed at correcting
imbalances in educational opportunities. The project
provides for construction of classrooms, curricula develop-
ment and production of textbooks and learning materials,
training of teachers and supervisors, a pilot school meals
program, strengthening of municipal education administra-
tion, and evaluation and school mapping studies. Project
beneficiaries will include some 23,000 rural teachers and
2,000 supervisors to be upgraded during the project
period, and about 800,000 students who will be affected
annually at project completion by the various project
components.
Risks:               This project represents a first attempt to carry out
substantial improvements in basic education over a vast
area of Brazil, and consequently entails above average
risks. A major risk is posed by the fact that lasting
quality improvements in education will depend to a large
extent on achieving better conditions of service for
teachers. The project attacks this problem by requiring
that the municipalities introduce teachers' charters,
which will provide job tenure rights and set out salary
scales. The federal government is undertaking a separate
program to supplement the salaries of municipal teachers
in the northeast over the 1980-85 period. These measures
should greatly strengthen the chances of success under the
project. There is also some risk of implementation delays
due to the sharing of project responsibility by three
levels of government. The strengthening of administrative
units at all three levels, however, should ease this
problem.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                                                 % of
----US$ Millions----- Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total    Costs
Civil Works
Basic Education Schools                   17.02    3.00   20.02        30.2
Rural Education Centers/Nuclei              1.00    0.18    1.18        1.8
Municipal Education Units (offices)        0.14    0.02    0.16         0.2
School Meal (warehouses)                   0.05    0.01    0.06         0.1
Subtotal (construction and
site works)                18.21    3.21   21.42       32.3
Equipment and Furniture                       5.85    0.65    6.50        9.8
Curriculum Development and
Teaching/Learning Materials                  11.12    0.59   11.71       17.7
In-Service Training                         13.01    0.68   13.69        20.6
School Meals                                  1.13    0.06    1.19        1.8
Project Management
Strengthening of Municipal
Education Units                          2.32    0.12    2.44         3.7
Evaluation and Studies                     0.55    0.03    0.58         0.9
Professional Services                       1.11    0.06    1.17        1.7
Project Administration                     7.24    0.38    7.62        11.5
Subtotal                               11.22    0.59   11.81       17.8
Total Baseline Costs                        60.37    5.95   66.32    100.0
Contingencies                               22.82    2.26   25.08        37.8
Physical                                   6.03    0.60    6.63        10.0
Price                                     16.79    1.66   18.45        27.8
Project Costs (net of taxes)                83.19    8.21   91.40    137.8
Local Taxes                                   0.88    0.00    0.88        1.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         84.07    8.21   92.28    139.1
1/   Project costs have been calculated on the basis of the exchange rate as of
January 1980 (US$1 = Cr$ 42.33).



- 111 -
Financing Plan:                             US$ millions        %
Government                59.4          65.0
IBRD                      32.0          35.0
Total                     91.4         100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                        ------------US$ millions------------
Bank FY           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual              1.6     4.6      8.8      9.8      7.2
Cumulative         1.6      6.2    15.0    24.8    32.0
Rate of Return:      Not quantified since this is a social sector project.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2815a-BR, dated April 28, 1980.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$32 million to
help finance the Northeast Basic Education Project. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on the
work of an economic mission that recently returned from Brazil. The mission
is at present preparing its report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple with accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of-payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Govern-
ment include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on
imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports. Success
on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and balance-
of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living
standards and a better income distribution.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased by more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians shared in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.        One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project in Minas Gerais
(P-2801-BR, dated April 28, 1980).



- 2 -
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports rose
from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports also
swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or
7% of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the
suddenly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic
problems of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.         Brazil's capacity to manage the 1973-74 oil crisis was enhanced
by its strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control over imports, which were held approximately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit was reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged
7.6% per year between 1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.         By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the autho-
rities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.
8.         The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern
Brazil. The loss of food production cost the economy an estimated US$1.5
billion in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in manu-
factured and semi-processed exports, total merchandise exports rose only 4.4%,
compared to a 13.8% increase in merchandise imports. The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the third consecutive
year.
9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
unionized sectors, and the continued expansion of manufactured exports. Indus-
trial production was up about 7% over the previous year. Agricultural output
was again severely affected by a combination of droughts, floods, and frost
but showed some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. Overall, GDP
growth was 6.4%, a modest increase over the preceding year. High demand, the
poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of
inflation in 1979. Inflation for the year reached 78%, the highest rate since
1964.



-3-
10.       Increased petroleum prices, consecutive bad harvests, and a sharp
rise in external borrowing costs contributed also to a progressive deterioration
of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978 and 1979. Despite the continued rapid
growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise trade balance fell from a small
surplus in 1977 to a US$1.0 billion deficit in 1978 and a US$2.7 billion deficit
in 1979.  The cost of fuel imports alone increased from 1978 to 1979 by 53%, or
US$2.2 billion. Increases in the London interbank offered rate (LIBOR), to which
about 60% of Brazil's external debt is tied, contributed to raising gross interest
payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to US$5.3 billion in 1979. Conse-
quently, the deficit on current account grew from US$5.9 billion to US$9.7
billion, or from 3.1% to 4.7% of GDP.
11.       With amortization payments totaling US$6.6 billion, gross external
capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$16.3 billion. Of this amount,
US$3.2 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, and another US$1.5 billion was
provided by net direct foreign investment. Gross and net foreign borrowings
in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled US$11.6 billion and US$5.0
billion, respectively, compared to US$14.1 billion and US$8.8 billion in 1978.
Few difficulties were encountered in attracting the necessary credits, and
an improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and maturities available to Brazil was
sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought international reserves to US$9.0
billion at the end of 1979, or equivalent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and
nonfactor service imports. Gross medium- and long-term debt rose to US$49.9
billion, or 24% of GDP.
12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success and were
followed by new packages of measures in December 1979 and January 1980. The
most important of these measures were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro,
accompanied by the elimination of some export subsidies and the prior deposit
requirement on imports, and the imposition of a temporary export tax on
primary products; increased restrictions on public enterprise investments,
imports and borrowing; a modification of administered credit programs which
is intended to reduce subsidies; establishment of ceilings on monetary correction
and exchange rate adjustment during 1980; and the imposition of direct controls
on credit expansion by the private banking system.
Poverty Programs
13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts to relieve
poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of areas. Coverage
of the social security program, for example, has been expanded and extended to
the rural population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered
by the social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has
been established for the rural elderly poor. Under this latter system,
rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible to re-
ceive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. The
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program. Almost 2 million



- 4 -
loans have been made for housing by the National Housing Bank since 1964.  A
sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has also been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently, some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services to 75%. Efforts have also been made to attack
the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. 1/
Future Prospects
14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, to substitute alcohol for gasoline, and to
expand domestic coal production. Efforts are also being made to induce energy
conservation. While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on imported
energy remains a formidable problem. With oil expected to constitute US$10-12
billion (over half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in 1980, as compared to
US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between growth and
balance-of-payments viability continues to be a principal preoccupation of
economic decision makers.
15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms have been undertaken to
improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the marked improvement of information flows and administrative control in the
public sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies
and public enterprises; incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of
the subsidy programs formerly handled outside the budget through the Central
Bank; and reduced earmarking of public revenues. Currently under considera-
tion are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities of the
Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating power, and
a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.
16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation
favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitution. Toward
this end also, many administratively complex tariff exemption schemes have
been eliminated as part of a general rationalization of the trade regime.
Although public investments may be constrained by reduced resource availabil-
ities over the next several years, priority attention will continue to be
given to the development of domestic energy sources, agriculture and major
import-substitution projects.
1/   For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.



- 5 -
17.       Growth is expected to average about 5.5% per year in 1980-85 as
compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-79. Such a growth rate should be
compatible with a declining current account deficit after 1981 and high, but
declining, debt service ratios. These projections are highly sensitive, how-
ever, to petroleum prices, international interest rates, and the rate of growth
of manufactured exports. The combination of high debt service and a high share
of petroleum in total imports leaves the economy more vulnerable to external
events than it has been for many years, and this situation may be expected to
persist for the next several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
18.       With the forecast upward trend of real petroleum prices, Brazil's
resource balance is expected to remain negative until 1983. Interest payments
on the growing external debt will increase throughout the period 1980-85
despite an expected decline in international interest rates. Thus large
service account deficits will result in continuing current account deficits
on the order of US$10-12 billion through 1982, though declining sharply there-
after. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to peak
at 6.0% in 1980 and fall steadily to 1.0% by 1985. This projection assumes that
import restraint continues to 1985, permitting a large trade surplus to appear
in 1984; alternatively imports could be accelerated as the balance-of-payments
constraint is eased, at the cost of a larger current account deficit in 1984
and beyond.
19.       Under the assumption of continued import restraint, net medium- and
long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be around US$9 billion in
1980, remain in the range of US$10-11 billion from 1981 to 1983, then fall
to US$6 billion by 1985. Annual gross borrowing would be maintained at a
level of US$16-19 billion throughout the five-year period, with US$12-15
billion obtained as financial credits from private lenders. Consequently
the net debt service ratio 1/ would peak in 1980 at 60%, falling to about
39% in 1985. As a proportion of GDP total outstanding medium- and long-
term debt would reach 32% in 1982 and decline slowly thereafter.
20.       In summary, after a period of very rapid growth in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nation to moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic
structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjustment process has been
eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of national creditworthiness,
the aggressive expansion of manufactured exports, and the ample opportunities
for efficient import substitution offered by its large domestic market.
Nevertheless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence
of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate
that the adjustment process must go much further. The Government recognizes
the need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty alleviation.
1/   Including both public and private debt.



- 6 -
21.       The great sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum
prices and international interest rates was demonstrated in 1979 and will
continue to make projections subject to a wide margin of error. The present
scenario also depends heavily on Brazil's continued ability to expand manu-
factured exports, despite the slower anticipated growth of the world economy,
and on its continued access to international capital. A major effort is
underway to reduce dependence on foreign petroleum but significant results
will not be apparent for several years. On the other hand, the Brazilian
economy remains dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient. The task of
economic management will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their
ability to adjust to changing circumstances, and recent policy measures should
greatly strengthen their management capacity. Thus, despite the deterioration
noted in 1979, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional
terms.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
22.       By February 29, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,496 million (net of cancellations), of which 46 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million
in FY78, and US$295 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first half of FY80
amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next few
years. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of February 29,
1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Over the FY75-FY79 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in
FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million; in FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million; and in FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million were made.
So far in FY80, three loans have been approved: a US$114 million loan for
power distribution, a US$130 million loan for water supply and sewerage in
the south, and a US$58 million loan for industrial pollution control in Sao
Paulo. A suburban rail transport project in Porto Alegre and a third water
supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais will be considered by the Executive
Directors shortly.  Work is well advanced on rural development projects in
Minas Gerais and Ceara, and on two additional power loans. It is expected
that loans will be proposed for these projects in the near future.
24.       Of Brazil's total (public and private) external debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1979, amounting to US$49.9 billion, the Bank
held 3.6%. The Bank's share of the service on this debt in 1979 was 2.0%.
In 1980, the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is expected to fall very
slightly, while its share in total debt service should fall to about 1.8%.



- 7 -
25.       As of February 29, 1980 IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$499.0
million, of which US$329.8 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of the
balance of US$169.2 million, US$129.9 million represent loans and US$39.3
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of February 29, 1980 is
given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
26.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve a number of important development objectives which are inter-
dependent and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is
to help to intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop
projects that will increase the productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to improve their living conditions. It is to
these ends that the proposed Northeast Basic Education Project is mainly
directed. This project will extend the efforts already being made through
education components of ongoing rural development projects in six northeastern
states.   Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational
training, agricultural research, and agricultural extension were also designed
to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional projects designed to
assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation, including second
rural development projects in Minas Gerais and in Ceara, and a first rural
development project in Piaui. Loans for water supply and sewerage projects in
the State of Minas Gerais, in Greater Sao Paulo, in the northeast and in the
south, for urban transport in five major cities, and for sites and services
and low-cost housing are assisting to improve the living conditions of the
urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to reach
low-income groups in urban areas have been presented recently or are in
preparation, including a third water supply and sewerage project for Minas
Gerais, a second urban transport project, and pollution control projects for
Sao Paulo and for Rio de Janeiro.
27.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective is particularly important in the proposed project, which seeks to
strengthen educational administration at the municipal, state, and federal
levels. It is hoped that the experience gained by the local executing agen-
cies with this project will be applied in additional municipalities of the
nine northeastern states and in future education projects involving rural
areas of other states. Loans for rural development, electric power, water
supply and sewerage, railways, highways, and agricultural research and exten-
sion a]so have important institution-building objectives.



- 8 -
28.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic
policy. Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since
it is based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the
need for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemical
projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient
domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending
for agro-industries in the center and south of Brazil is also supporting this
objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector --
railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and
economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping
Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can
be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high-
grade iron ore and the scale of its internal markets. A similar objective
is being achieved through the VALESUL aluminum project which uses Brazil's
abundant hydroelectric resources and ample bauxite reserves.
29.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence in
Brazil and encourages others to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions than may have otherwise been provided. Ten co-financing operations
for more than US$365 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private
financial institutions and several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
30.       The weakness of the rural basic education system in the northeast
of Brazil is an integral part of the region's extensive pattern of poverty.
The poverty of the area determines the low level of financial resources which
local governments can make available for education. The poor quality and
limited coverage of basic education in turn slows the transfer of knowledge
which could improve living conditions--health and nutrition education, agri-
cultural training, and vocational training--offering mobility toward urban



areas. Recent Bank studies indicate that incomes of Brazilians with primary
education are more than twice those of persons without schooling, and that the
income gap between these two groups has increased. Income levels in the rural
northeast are less than half the national average, and to help redress this
situation improvements in rural basic education are required.
31.       Basic education in the rural areas of the nine northeastern states
1/ of Brazil is quite unsatisfactory. The first eight grades (termed basic
education) in these areas suffer with respect to physical facilities, teacher
qualifications, and the quality of education. In the rural northeast, basic
education is frequently unavailable beyond the first two grades; classes are
conducted all too often in teachers' houses or in dilapidated, inadequate
premises devoid of any semblance of a true learning environment, by poorly
paid teachers who have themselves often less than four years of education.
These problems are directly reflected in the poor performance statistics of
basic education in rural areas of the northeast: the gross participation
rate 2/ in the lower cycle of basic education (grades 1-4) is 55% in the rural
northeast versus 88% nationally; and enrollment in grades 5-8 accounts for
less than 1% of the rural northeast school population. There are, however,
considerable differences in rural basic education between the nine northeast-
ern states, with net participation rates ranging from 36% to 63%, and retention
rates varying from 11% to 26%, in grades 1-4.
32.       This unsatisfactory situation does not result from indifference on
the part of federal, state or municipal authorities. Rather it reflects the
dimension of the effort needed to make a significant impact on educational
development in the rural areas of the northeast of Brazil, where budgetary
resources are often so limited as to require considerable capital and current
transfers from the federal and state governments to sustain corrective measures.
Steps have already been taken at both levels to finance capital expenditures,
and recently to supplement the current budgets of the municipalities, which
are responsible for basic education in rural areas. Moreover, the federal
government's education development plan for 1980-85 lays special emphasis on
meeting the needs of the rural northeast.
Overview of the Education Sector
33.       Education administration in Brazil is decentralized at federal,
state and municipal levels. Following the Education Law of 1971, responsibil-
ity for basic education (grades 1-8) was transferred from the states to the
municipalities. 3/ The administration of secondary education rests with the
states. However, in light of the resource constraints at state and municipal
levels, administration of most urban basic education is in fact still the
1/   Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande
do Norte, and Sergipe.
2/   Gross participation rate is the gross enrollment as a percentage of
the relevant age group. Gross enrollment differs from net enrollment
by including overage and underage enrolled students, who are excluded
to reach the net figure.
3/   Municipios, the smallest Brazilian administrative unit, which might
better be translated as counties.



- 10 -
responsibility of the states while secondary education remains largely the
responsibility of the federal government. The federal government is responsi-
ble for overall policy-making, planning and coordination. Most universities
are administratively autonomous institutions. The formal education system
thus consists of eight years of basic education, three or four years of
secondary education, and three to seven years of higher education.
34.        The 1971 Education Reform Law sought to provide free and compulsory
basic education for all children between the ages of 7 and 14 (grades 1-8).
In national terms some progress towards that goal has been made, gross enroll-
ments having increased by 15% between 1971 and 1975 (the most recent data
available), equivalent to an 88% coverage of the relevant school age population,
with roughly equal enrollment of girls and boys. Net enrollments, however, were
much lower (16% of basic education enrollments were overage students), while drop-
out and repetition rates in grades 1-4 (65% and 13% respectively), characteristic
of poor quality education militate against a cost effective system. These
deficiencies are magnified in the northeastern states, and still more in the
rural areas, where gross participation rates had reached only 77% and 55%
respectively in 1975, with overage enrollments, dropout and repetition rates
comparable to or higher than the national levels. The same disparities of
educational quality and opportunity are discernible in a comparison of teacher
qualifications (unqualified teachers, 22% at national level, 58% in the north-
eastern states, up to 90% in the rural areas of these states); and physical
facilities (the greatest incidence of classes held in teachers' houses occurs in
the rural areas).
35.        In secondary education, a parallel development is observable.
Between 1971 and 1975, gross national enrollments increased annually by
14.7% (overage students accounting for about 50%), representing some 26%
of the relevant school age population. By comparison, the nine north-
eastern states enrolled only 21% of the same age group, and these came
almost exclusively from the urban areas; there are no secondary level insti-
tutions in the rural areas, and rural enrollments at this level accounted
for a microscopic 0.4% of the relevant age group. A significant development
in secondary education was the increasing emphasis placed on employment-
oriented courses, in decrees promulgated in 1972 and 1975 by the Federal
Council of Education, the objectives of which were to place more emphasis
on technical studies at vocational and prevocational levels. The second Bank
education project (Loan 1067-BR) assisted this development in the populous
areas of the northeast.
36.       Higher education has developed in similar fashion, enrollments
at national level increasing by over 91% between 1971 and 1975, and attain-
ing a relatively high 15% coverage of the 18-21 age group. In the northeast,
however, while expansion occurred at a similar rate, enrollments reached only
7% of the relevant age group and few came from rural areas.
37.       The financing of basic education is one of the major problems facing
the sector. While the states still pay for schooling in the urban areas, the
responsibility for basic education in the rural areas has been handed to the
municipalities. These municipalities, particularly in the rural northeast, do
not have the local fiscal resources (mainly derived from minor taxes) needed



- 11 -
to carry out their responsibilities adequately, and the problem is most acute
in the poorest areas. The federal government therefore finances, through a
variety of specialized programs, about half of the municipalities' education
expenditures, and assumes the primary financial responsibility for school
construction, printing of textbooks, and teachers' training, with some parti-
cipation by the states. In order to permit the municipalities to raise the
wages of full-time (20 hours per week) teachers, the federal government is
supplementing rural teachers' salaries in the northeast states over the
1980-85 period. This program will cover eight states, the exception being
Pernambuco which has its own program to supplement rural teachers' salaries.
Further analysis of the overall problem--the mismatch between local financial
resources and local demand for services--is required, and the Government has
recently initiated a study on municipal education financing.
38.       The problems which beset education in Brazil are vast.  They are
particularly severe in the rural northeast where priority action is needed to
recast and expand the service. At the core of the problem lies the need to
ensure at least four years of basic education to the whole relevant age group,
and to take measures to ensure that the education provided is of a quality and
relevance calculated to attract and retain the student population.
Government's Strategy for Educational Development
39.       Since 1974 successive governments have recognized the need
to review development plans and investment programs which in the previous
decade had concentrated resources on economic growth, and devoted insuffi-
cient revenues to the social sector. The present administration is aware
that the 1975-79 Education Development Plan has achieved only limited
success; its targets were overly ambitious in nature and timing, and the
resources required were seriously underestimated. The poorer states and
municipalities had neither the financial nor the human resources needed to
carry out this program.
40.       The Federal Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) is presently
completing a new sector development plan (1980-85), whose main objectives
include: (i) a phased program of universal basic education in the rural
areas, beginning with grades 1-4; (ii) the expansion of education and training
opportunities in the poo-rest areas of Brazilian cities; (iii) cultural develop-
ment to foster national identity; (iv) institution-building at the various
government levels; and (v) improvement in allocation and distribution of
financial resources and the redressing of inequality in educational opportuni-
ties. The federal government is committed to achieving these objectives,
and in recognition of the financial constraints under which the states and
the municipalities operate, will meet the capital costs of the development
plan and certain current costs as noted above. The states and the municipal-
ities, to the extent that their budgetary resources permit, are supportive
of the government proposals.
Bank's Role in Education and Training
41.       The Bank has made three loans for education and training in Brazil.
The first (Loan 755-BR, US$8.4 million, signed in June 1971) supported the
construction/expansion of 16 federal agricultural and technical institutions
at secondary and post-secondary level. The project was completed in June 1978.



- 12 -
The relevant project performance audit report 1/ noted that project objectives
had in large measure been met, and that graduates of the schools had generally
found employment readily or continued their studies. The second (Loan 1067-BR,
US$23.5 million, signed in December 1974) supports the implementation of the
national education reform at basic and secondary levels in poor neighborhoods
of cities and in isolated towns of eight north and northeast states. A third
Bank education loan (Loan 1452-BR, US$32 million, signed in September 1977) is
assisting the Federal Ministry of Labor to strengthen the national vocational
training system and expand its capacity to meet skilled manpower needs.
Implementation of the two ongoing projects is proceeding satisfactorily, and
they should be completed without undue delays. Additionally, the Bank has
financed education and training components in six integrated rural development
projects in the northeast; these components range from basic formal education
to adult training programs consonant with the socio-economic objectives of the
projects. In rural development projects presently underway and those being
prepared, the education components reflect the same approach as, and are
complementary to, the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
42.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Northeast Basic Education Project"
(No. 2815a-BR dated April 28, 1980) is being distributed separately. The
project was identified by a Bank mission in 1977 and was appraised in April/May
and October/November, 1979. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in
processing the project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan. Negotiations for the proposed loan were held in Washington,
D.C., in March/April 1980, with a Brazilian delegation led by Mr. Jose Amaral
Sobrinho of the Ministry of Education and Culture.
Project Objectives and Content
43.       The proposed project would assist the federal government to implement
the first phase of a long-term national basic education development plan
aimed at correcting imbalances in educational opportunities by improving access,
efficiency and quality. The government has identified the northeast as a
priority region, especially its rural areas, in which to initiate action. The
dimensions of the problems in the region are such that this first phase will
be limited to 248 selected rural municipalities (18% of the total number of
municipalities) within the nine northeast states where needs are greatest.
The criteria for selecting the project municipalities were: (a) severe school
access, efficiency, and quality problems; (b) population of the municipality
over 40% rural; and (c) municipality not assisted by an education component of
an ongoing integrated rural development project. The number of project
municipalities in each state was also limited by the state's preparation and
execution capacity. The proposed project will seek to establish the conditions
for the provision of efficient and cost-effective quality basic education and
the framework for sustained institution building in the project municipalities,
and, in so doing, to develop a model which can be replicated elsewhere.
1/   Project Performance Audit Report No. 2802, dated January 9, 1980.



- 13 -
44.       The project would consist of the following components to be imple-
mented over a five-year period beginning March 1, 1980.
(a) Physical Facilities: construction, equipping and furnishing of
basic schools (including remodelling), rural education centers
or nuclei (central schools which provide support to surrounding
basic schools), offices for Municipal Education Units, and ware-
houses for the school meal program.
(b) Curriculum Development and Teaching/Learning Materials: revision
of curricula for rural basic education, production of textbooks
and teachers' guides, distribution of teaching/learning materials
packages, and strengthening of the school and teacher supervision
system at the state level.
(c) Training of Teachers, Supervisors and Administrators: upgrading
and in-service training of teachers and supervisors in the project
municipalities, and training of administrative and technical
personnel at municipal and state levels.
(d) School Meals Program: improving the school meal storage, dis-
tribution and preparation system in the State of Piaui serving
150,000 students, and extending a new type of meal program,
based on an agricultural cooperative, to 5,000 students in
Pernambuco not already benefitting from such a program.
(e) Strengthening of Municipal Education Administration: establish-
ment or strengthening of Municipal Education Units (OMEs) in 233
project municipalities.
(f) Studies: in selected states, analyses of basic education curricula,
teacher training, impact of overage students, design of teaching and
learning materials, and the school meals program; and execution of
school mapping studies.
Elements of the Project
45.       Basic Education Schools (Grades 1-4):  This component includes the
construction of about 1,691 new basic education classrooms, partially as
replacement premises for classes held in teachers' houses or in dilapidated
schools which do not merit rebuilding, and the remodelling of about 424
classrooms in other existing schools. The program will provide about 156,040
student places in class groups of 35-40 on a double shift basis. Built to
standard designs adapted from ongoing school construction programs, the premises
will be furnished and equipped to offer an acceptable teaching/learning environ-
ment conducive to the implementation of the new curriculum and teaching methods
presently being developed. The schools will operate 20 periods per week for
each shift, and will, for the most part, function on a multigrade teaching
basis. In most cases they will be purely teaching institutions but in the
state of Ceara some of them will also serve as central schools, providing
guidance and supervision to satellite schools, and adult extension services.
Site and construction plans for all school building under the project will be
approved by the government's school building construction agency, CEBRACE,
which will also provide supervision and physical auditing services (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02 and Schedule 5).



- 14 -
46.       Basic Education Schools (Grades 1-8/5-8).  In furtherance of the
government's objective of extending educational opportunity to the completion
of the basic education cycle (grades 1-8), the states of Pernambuco, Alagoas
and Rio Grande do Norte will develop systems of centralized schools (about 47
classrooms) for grades 1-8 or 5-8. Located at central points within the
project target areas, where enrollment and access criteria can readily be met,
they will exercise guidance and supervisory functions in respect of satellite
schools (grades 1-4), undertake curriculum research and development, and
in the case of Alagoas, organize continuous in-service teacher training
programs for the staff of local schools. Each school will consist of four
classrooms, a practical arts room, a library, a covered recreation area, a
school meals service point and administrative and sanitary facilities. In
addition, the three Alagoas schools will each provide basic residential places
for 40 teachers-in-training, and an additional classroom/conference center.
Until demand for grade 5-8 places reaches the planned level, space capacity in
the schools will be used to offer additional grade 1-4 places.
47.       Curriculum Development and Teaching/Learning Materials.  A major
objective of the federal and state governments in improving the quality of
basic education is to develop curricula which are attuned to the rural environ-
ment, the job aspirations of students, and community needs. Once the new
curricula have been developed, new teaching and learning materials will be
tested, mass-produced and distributed without charge to students and teachers.
In the nine project states, therefore, the curriculum units of the State
Secretariats of Education and Culture (SECs) will be reinforced with technical
assistance services (about 1,100 man-months) to assist in this work. Further-
more, in the states of Alagoas, Bahia and Paraiba, 164 man-months of additional
school supervisory services will be provided to remedy personnel shortages in
this field. In all, some 4.8 million textbooks, workbooks and teachers'
guides will be produced, and some two million teaching and learning materials
packages will be purchased and distributed. The combined and cumulative
effect of these two proposals is calculated to produce a major improvement
in teaching and learning styles, and student retention rates. The MEC,
through its technical services, will assume overall responsibility for the
coordination of these activities and will assure appropriate testing of
prototype textbooks, in-service training of teachers, and review of new
teaching materials (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
48.       Training of Teachers, Administrators and Supervisors.  Another major
constraint upon the development of quality, cost-effective education in
rural areas has been the poor training of teaching, administrative, and
supervisory personnel. Most rural teachers have less than four years of basic
education; as many as 90% in some states are without professional training.
This component will therefore finance the costs of technical assistance and
consultant services, and also the operational costs incurred in training/
upgrading some 22,300 teachers (mostly women), 2,000 school supervisors
in project muncipalities, and 1,000 administrative and technical personnel
at municipal and state levels. The courses will be organized and supervised
by the relevant divisions of the SECs, reinforced as required by consultants
contracted for the purpose. They will, in general, be held at state teacher
training centers; courses will include an introduction to the modified
curricula, teaching methodology and multigrade teaching techniques. The Joao
Pinheiro Center for Human Resources (CRHJP), a dependent agency of MEC, will
assume overall responsibility for these courses.



- 15 -
49.        Certain requirements would have to be met by teachers to qualify
for training: they would have to teach full-time (4 hours/day), priority
would be given to those already employed in project municipalities, and
teachers and supervisors would have co possess certain minimum educational
levels (fourth grade for teachers, secondary education for supervisors).
Once trained, teachers would enjoy improved conditions of service, including
a minimum two-year contract. All teachers in the project municipalities would
benefit from the introduction of teachers' charters, which are to be proposed
to the municipal councils by the mayors within three years of loan signing.
These charters set out the rights and responsibilities of teachers, and
include job tenure provisions and salary scales which, under a separate MEC
program, will be brought into line with the regional minimum wage.  Such
charters already exist for state and federally employed teachers, and would
now apply to municipal teachers as well. They would considerably enhance the
conditions of service of rural teachers (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
50.       School Meal Program.  Studies in other regions of Brazil have
demonstrated the possible impact of school meals on student attendance and
achievement at the basic education level. In the northeast, such school
meal services have been thwarted by financial and organizational problems, and
have been largely concentrated in the urban areas. Two states, however, Piaui
and Pernambuco, have agreed with the federal government on a pilot scheme to
expand the service to the rural areas, and the proposed project will finance
these experiments. In the case of Piaui some 150,000 students will benefit by
the regular provision of school meals to be distributed to the 35 project
municipalities. Project items will include the construction and equipping of
nine rurally located warehouses; the purchase of six vehicles for meals
distribution, and the acquisition and installation of kitchen and canteen
equipment in about 360 schools. The National School Meal Program (CNAE) would
have special responsibility in Piaui for the provision of meals, training of
ancillary staff, and implementation of related maternal health education and
nutrition programs in the project schools. Pernambuco, on the other hand,
proposes to extend to about 5,000 students in project municipalities a
pilot experiment presently operating in suburban Recife whereby a central
cooperative purchases the food from local farmers and distributes it to the
schools. The proposed project would finance for four years the costs to be
incurred in the purchase and distribution of food to the selected project
schools, and an analysis of the effectiveness of alternative food purchase
arrangements in the state of Pernambuco.
51.       Strengthening of Municipal Education Administration.  The federal
government's strategy to decentralize primary and secondary education at
state level, and to vest in the municipalities responsibility for the adminis-
tration of basic education in rural areas, requires that at both these levels
a serious and sustained effort in institution-building be undertaken to endow
SECs and the Municipal Education Units (OMEs), the latter of recent creation,
with the expertise to undertake these tasks. This project component will
therefore finance: (a) training programs for about three coordinators/educators/
supervisors in each OME; (b) fellowships for selected OME personnel; (c) the
construction, furnishing and equipping of office accommodation for the 13
project OMEs in Alagoas; (d) travel and subsistence allowances for the duration
of the project for SEC staff monitoring the development and work program of the
OMEs; and (e) salaries and operational costs for up to four years, for



- 16 -
OME staff in selected states.  The Project for Coordination and Technical
Assistance to the MIunicipal Education System (PROMtUNICIPIO), sponsored by MEC
and charged with implementing the OME program at national level, will monitor
and supervise the progress of this component through already established
mechanisms in each state. The above-mentioned training program will be con-
ducted by PROMUNICIPIO central staff.
52.       Studies.  This component would finance studies on:  (i) curriculum
evaluation (basic education) in Ceara, which requires perhaps the greatest
changes in curriculum, and Pernambuco, which is included in the project
evaluation; (ii) the effectiveness of the teacher-training programs component
of the project in Pernambuco; (iii) the impact of overage students on learn-
ing effectiveness in Alagoas; (iv) the design of low-cost teaching and
learning materials, with community participation, in Pernambuco; and (v)
the effectiveness of alternative food purchase arrangements for the school
meal program in Pernambuco. School mapping exercises would also be financed
in all project municipalities except in Bahia, where the required information
is already available. The project would finance 61 man-months of consultancies/
technical assistance service for items (i) through (v), and the salaries of
key SEC personnel, and operational costs for the school mapping component.
The studies are expected to furnish meaningful information on the success and
impact of the project; school mapping will be fundamental to the location and
size of project institutions. Detailed terms of reference for each of the
studies will be prepared by the SECs on the basis of understandings already
reached with the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
53.       The project cost, net of identifiable taxes, is estimated at US$91.4
million equivalent including physical contingencies of US$6.6 million and
price contingencies of US$18.4 million. Local taxes on domestically-
manufactured furniture and equipment are estimated at US$880,000, bringing the
total project cost to US$92.3 million.   Physical contingencies average about
10% of base costs.  Price contingencies, on average about 25.3% of base costs
plus physical contingencies, are based on dollar cost estimates. Consultancy
and technical assistance services are estimated at rates ranging from US$500
per man-month to US$5,000 per man-month. Individual physical contingencies
are estimated at an average of 10% for site work, construction, furniture,
equipment technical assistance and project administration. Estimated annual
price contingencies are as follows: 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981, 7% for the
period 1982-1985. These price contingencies are considered appropriate in
light of the type of materials and services to be purchased under the project.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$8.2 million or about
9.0% of net project costs; foreign exchange costs were calculated on the basis
of 15% for civil works, 10% for furniture, 10% for equipment and texbooks, 5%
for training, 10% for consultant services, and 5% for salaries and fees of
local experts. The Bank's loan would cover 35% of net project costs, and
US$23.8 million or 74% of the loan would be for local expenditures. This
project has a high priority, but a low foreign exchange content. In order for
the Bank to maintain a meaningful dialogue with the Government in the education
sector, which directly affects the outlook for lower-income groups, it seems
reasonable to finance 35% of the costs even though this entails financing a
part of local currency expenditures.



Recurrent Costs
54.       At full operating capacity project institutions and programs would
require additional annual recurrent expenditures of about US$14.7 million
(1979 prices), of which 82.8% represent the increase in rural municipal
teachers' salaries, as induced by the project, and 17.2% the production and
distribution of student textbooks, teachers' guides and teaching/ learning
materials. The capacity of the municipalities to finance increased teacher
salaries from their own resources varies widely. Because many of the munici-
palities would have some difficulty in raising salaries at present, the
federal government has agreed to supplement these salaries. As noted in para.
37, MEC has initiated in 1980, in the northeast states, a program to supplement
teachers' salaries. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that MEC
would continue to supplement the salaries of teachers in the northeast states
through 1985, which corresponds to the project implementation period. The
federal government's intention is that this responsibility be progressively
assumed by the states and municipalities in line with their financial capacity.
The federal government also intends to bring municipal teachers' salaries in
the northeast up to the regional municipal wage by 1985. The rural municipali-
ties' capability to assume the financial burden is the subject of a recently
initiated federal government study (see para. 37). The progress of this study
would be discussed by the Government with the Bank as part of the normal educa-
tion sector dialogue. After project completion, the states would assume the
recurrent costs related to the production and distribution of textbooks and
teaching/learning materials.
Project Administration and Implementation
55.       Administration.  Implementation of this complex project would be
a cooperative venture on the part of the MEC, SECs and the project munici-
palities. A special Project Management Unit (PMU) would be established
within the Secretariat of Fundamental and Secondary Education (SEPS) of the
MEC with coordinating, supervisory and implementation monitoring functions,
each SEC retaining prime responsibility for project execution in the respec-
tive state. In carrying out its functions, the PMU would be assisted by
such dependent technical agencies/departments of the MEC as CEBRACE (school
construction), FENAME (textbooks and teacher/learning materials), CRHJP
(staff development), CNAE (school meals) and PROMUNICIPIO (establishment/
strengthening of the OMEs). An administration committee, comprising repre-
sentatives of the Secretary General, MEC; SEPS; the Secretariat of Internal
Control of MEC; the Ministry of Finance; and SEPLAN, would assist the PMU in
respect to policy related matters. A project coordination committee, consisting
of representatives of SEPS, CEBRACE, FENAME, CNAE, and CRRJP would exercise
similar functions in regard to project implementation matters. At state
level, project implementation would be the responsibility of a State Project
Management Unit (SPMU) assisted by existing SEC technical units, suitably
reinforced, and as necessary by technical personnel from SEPS and other
dependent agencies of the MEC. At municipal level the project would be
implemented by the OMEs with direct assistance from the SEC. Financial
provision within the proposed project is made to meet, for the duration of the
project: (a) salaries of key PMU, SPMU staff, and ONE personnel; (b) service
charges for project supervision, monitoring and assistance by technical
agencies of the MEC; (c) equipment for some SPMUs and OMEs; and (d) operational
expenditures incurred by the PMU and SPMUs and by the OMEs.  The establishment
of the PMU would be a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement,



- 18 -
Section 6.01), the establishment of SPMUs a condition of disbursement in each
of the participating states, and the establishment of OMEs a condition of
disbursement in each project municipality (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1).
56.       Implementation.  The implementation responsibilities, by project
components and administrative levels, would be as follows:
(a) School Construction: The SECs would be responsible for school
mapping, architectural design, contract awards and civil works supervision
and certification; the municipalities for the site selection, bidding
documents and evaluation; CEBRACE would assist with design work and
construction supervision, prepare consolidated progress reports for the
PMU, and an annual physical audit report on works executed.
(b) School mapping: The SECs would execute the school mapping of
each project municipality, together with the OMEs' staff and assisted
by CEBRACE.
(c) Curriculum Development: Essentially the responsibility of the
SECs, SEPS/MEC would nonetheless review proposals for curriculum content,
monitor progress in curriculum development and prepare an annual education
audit report on project results. FENAME would advise on quality control and
technical aspects of textbook production.
(d) Training Programs: The SECs would plan and administer training
programs and maintain a tracer system on personnel trained; CRHJP would
review all aspects of training proposals, including estimated costs;
the municipalities would select teachers and OME personnel for training
and maintain records of persons trained.
(e) School Meal Program: In Piaui and Pernambuco the SEC would
monitor execution of the program by the respective implementing agencies
(CNAE/Piaui, the central cooperative/Pernambuco) and prepare for the MEC,
PMU an annual evaluation of program results.
(f) Establishing/Strengthening of OMEs: PROMUNICIPIO, acting through
its staff at the state level, would assist project municipalities in selection
and training of additional OME staff and in developing administrative exper-
tise required for project execution.
57.       Implementation Schedule.  The proposed project is scheduled for
implementation over five years. A general implementation schedule and a
detailed first year schedule have been prepared by each SEC. All schedules
would be reviewed and updated annually by the PMU and Project Coordination
Group. Assurances have been obtained from the Government that updated imple-
mentation schedules would be furnished to the Bank annually by the end of
December of each year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
58.       Procurement.  Construction contracts would not be suitable for
packaging because of the dispersed locations of the project schools. Civil
works contracts would, therefore, to the extent possible, follow local compe-
titive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank and interested foreign
contractors would not be precluded from bidding. In a few cases, construction
and/or remodelling may be carried out on a force account basis, but the amount



- 19 -
involved is not expected to exceed US$3.0 million. Virtually all equipment
and furniture will be unsophisticated, and will be dispersed over a number of
municipalities. It would not, therefore, be practicable to group sizable
packages for international competitive bidding, and local competitive bidding
procedures satisfactory to the Bank would be followed, although foreign
manufacturers/suppliers would be free to submit bids. Items which cannot be
grouped into economical packages will be procured through local shopping, but
will not in the aggregate exceed US$500,000. With regard to the procurement
of textbooks and other teaching/ learning materials, the same situation
obtains, and the same procedures are proposed as for furniture and equipment,
including local shopping for items not suitable for procurement through
competitive bidding, but would not in the aggregate exceed US$500,000.
59.       Flow of Funds.  The transfer of project funds to the states and
municipaiities would be carried out as follows, in order to ensure that funds
for expenditures at the state and municipal levels would be available on a
timely basis. The states would submit annually to MEC a schedule of estimated
monthly disbursements for the next fiscal year (January to December). Once
this schedule had been approved by NEC, monthly transfers of funds would be
made by FNDE, according to the agreed schedule, through the Banco do Brasil.
Additional transfers couLd be made in the event project execution were to
proceed ahead of schedule. Project funds would be transferred to the munici-
palities by one of two procedures. Some states would release funds against
the presentation of appropriate documents; others, such as Bahia and Pernambuco,
would sign agreements with the municipalities for implementation of works.
Under the latter arrangement, funds would in effect be advanced to the muni-
cipalities, with a state inspector subsequently verifying that the works were
correctly executed.
60.       Disbursement.  The proposed loan would be disbursed at the rate
of 35% of project expenditures for each component, and over a period of five
years. Disbursements would be made to the Central Bank of Brazil and thence
transferred to a specially earmarked account of the National Education Devel-
opment Fund (FNDE) against consolidated withdrawal applications prepared by
the PMU on the basis of certified accounts from each SEC. The SEPS, upon
request by PMU, would authorize the transfer of project funds from FNDE to a
specially earmarked project account in a state-owned bank in each project
State, against certified statements of expenditures prepared by the SEC of
each state. In respect of civil works expenditures, each SEC would transfer
project funds to the project municipalities against certified accounts prepared
by the latter. Given the volume of documentation which project implementation
would generate standard documentaticn would be forwarded to the Bank only in
respect of civil works under contract, vehicles, equipment, textbooks and
teaching guides, major study contracts, and technical assistance services.
Supporting documents for the statements of expenditure would not be submitted
to the Bank but would be retained by PMU and made available for Bank inspec-
tion. Yearly educational, physical and financial audits would be conducted by
MEC technical agencies and SEPLAN (which has recently received from the
Ministry of Finance the authority and responsibility to conduct financial
audits), and submitted to the Bank.
61.       To facilitate project start-up retroactive financing not exceeding
US$1.5 million (4.7% of the proposed loan) would be permitted for expenditures
incurred from March 1, 1980 in respect of curriculum development, teaching



- 20 -
materials, training of key project personnel, consultant/technical assistance
services, construction of prototype schools, school mapping, and the establish-
ment of federal/state project implementation units (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1).
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
62.       Monitoring.  Efficient monitoring and evaluation are essential
for the early discovery of problems and the implementation of adequate
corrective measures. The PMU would be responsible for preparing progress
reports assisted by MEC's departments and dependent technical agencies in-
volved in project implementation and based on information either provided by
the SPMUs or gathered during supervision visits.
63.       Evaluation.  The impact and results of the proposed project would
be evaluated on a sampling basis in two project states (Pernambuco and Piaui),
chosen to represent different levels of basic education in rural areas, by an
independent agency in conjunction with the respective SECs and the PMU. A
sample base-line survey would be conducted prior to the start of project
implementation, and the hiring of the independent agency would be a condition
of effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01). The evaluation would
analyze attainment of four project objectives: (i) educational achievements
in project schools; (ii) availability and use of physical facilities, textbooks
and teaching/learning materials; (iii) student progress rates; and (iv) insti-
tution building, with special reference to the efficiency of local education
administration and school supervision.
64.       Supervision.  The nature of the proposed project, in terms both
of diversity of components and wide geographical spread, makes an indirect
method of supervision by the Bank advisable. This implies reliance on the
project executing bodies at federal, state and municipal level for day-to-day
project supervision. The project has been designed to give experienced
federal and state agencies responsibility for monitoring the work carried out
in the field. Bank supervision would mainly consist of analysis of progress
reports and of reviews with the PMU, SPMUs and other dependent agencies of
progress achieved, problems detected and proposed solutions. Field visits to
the project municipalities and schools would be made on a sample basis and as
the situation might require to ensure an adequate understanding by the Bank
of project execution problems and progress.
Benefits
65.       The project is expected to make a significant contribution to the
development of basic education in selected rural areas of the nine northeastern
states of Brazil. Inequities in access to educational opportunity among munici-
palities will be reduced by the provision of new student places, through sound
school location planning, and better utilization of existing physical facili-
ties. The average participation rate is thus expected to rise from 53% of the
relevant school age population in 1975, to about 80% by 1984 when all project
schools are likely to be functioning on a two shift basis. Improved curricula,
the upgrading of rural teachers and supervisors, and the provision of textbooks
and teaching/learning material packages to all rural project schools may be



- 21 -
expected to improve the learning environment, to permit greater student
achievement and to accelerate the schooling completion rate.  Unit costs would
be further reduced by raising student/teacher ratios from an average of 23:1
to about 35:1, particularly in cases where schools held in teachers' houses
are replaced by new facilities. This is not expected to affect quality
negatively. Average unit costs for a student completing the fourth grade in a
rural municipal school should drop by an average 35-40% in the project states,
once the project schools are operating at full capacity.
66.       The qualitative norms described above are unlikely to be achieved
without a parallel improvement in the administration of education, and
in this regard the project is expected to make a significant contribution at
all three administrative levels: the planning and management capacity of MEC,
of all nine SECs, and of all 248 Municipal Education Units (OME) will be
strengthened by the appointment of additional staff, the contracting of
specialized services, and management training courses. The project would thus
foster the federal government's policy of educational decentralization while
ensuring a well defined chain of responsibility, particularly until the
decentralized agencies strengthen their management capacity. Finally, the
project recognizes the fact that the retention of a trained teaching force in
the less attractive conditions of the rural school requires the establishment
of acceptable teachers' conditions of service and salary scales.
Risks
67.       This project, by its nature, involves above average risks--economic,
political, and organizational. In respect of the former, the principal
consideration is likely to be the willingness and ability of the municipali-
ties and/or states to meet the not inconsiderable recurrent costs which the
project will engender. The MEC is shouldering the full burden of capital
costs, and all nine states have indicated their readiness to meet future costs
of textbooks, teaching materials and the like. However, the most serious
problem is the need to increase salaries for trained rural teachers. This
problem appears to be met in the medium-run by the additional federal resources
now committed. In the long-run, a revised mechanism for basic education
financing is required, and the federal government is currently studying this
question.   A further economic risk is that the subsistence-level living
conditions of rural families, which have a negative effect on school attendance,
might delay the expected increase in enrollment rates and decrease in dropouts,
in spite of the improved education programs introduced by the project.
68.       There are two main political risks.  In the first place political
considerations play a considerable role in determining the level of financing,
and hence services, made available to different municipalities. While this
project has been designed according to rational allocation criteria, it is
always possible that poLitical considerations may in the future distort proper
education planning in the nine states. Nonetheless, the increased awareness
within the municipalities of educational needs and the strengthened expertise
and role of the OMEs induced by the proposed project should minimize this
risk. Secondly, the willingness of municipal authorities to surrender the
politically attractive power of appointing and dismissing teachers at will,
which would be curtailed by the proposed teachers' charters, should not be



- 22 -
taken for granted. This risk is reduced, however, by requiring in the sub-
project agreements that mayors of the project municipalities present teachers'
charters to the municipal councils within three years of loan signing. A
substitutability provision will permit the replacement in the project of any
municipalities whose mayors decline to accept this condition.
69.       The proposed project clearly poses implementation risks deriving from
the complex administrative, legal, and financial arrangements among 248
municipalities and nine states, with project responsibilities shared by three
levels of government. The project design has dealt with these arrangements by
working out convenios between various levels of government, by strengthening
institutions at all three levels, and by thoroughly discussing project objec-
tives at federal, state and local levels. Supervision has also been designed
in a decentralized fashion, with certain responsibilities delegated by the
Bank to state and federal agencies. This project represents a first step
toward improving basic education services and institutions in the poor rural
areas of northeast Brazil. The importance of these objectives, and the steps
being taken to ensure successful implementation, justify accepting the recog-
nized risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. To ensure expeditious and effective project implementation,
the following legal arrangements have been made: (a) Loan Agreement between
the Bank and the borrower; (b) Project Agreements (convenios) between MEC and
the project states; and (c) Sub-Project Agreements (convenios) between the
project states and each project municipality. The key covenants to be speci-
fied in each of the above-mentioned convenios have been detailed in Schedule 5
of the draft Loan Agreement. Conditions of loan effectiveness would include
the signing of a convenio by at least one project state with MEC, the establish-
ment of the PMU, and the hiring of an independent agency to carry out an
evaluation of project effectiveness. The establishment of the SPMU and the
signing of a convenio between MEC and the project state would be conditions
of disbursement for each state. The establishment of the OME, and the signing
of a convenio between the state and the project municipality, would be condi-
tions of disbursement for each municipality. In the event any of the original
project municipalities did not sign a convenio with the state, they could be
replaced by other municipalities chosen in accordance with the original
criteria (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 and Schedules 1, 2, and 6).



- 23 -
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 21, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                               ANNEX I
page 1
3RAZIL - SOCIAL tNDICATOKS DATA S?ELrT
RAZIl,                      aFuY cCE CLOUPS (DJUTSIED AyIAGES
LANDARA (THOUSAND sq. NM. )                                        - X0ST UCT ESTLSATE)
^OTA.L          5512. 3                                                    SAE                  71H} N 82 ICHER
AGRICULTURAL    2026.3                                 .MST UCDJT        OROGRAPHIC    INCONZ       INCOME
1960  j     1970      ESTIMTEZ /b     REGION R    CROUP '    C;OUP /a
cM? PnlR WITA  USs)                   320.0        580.0    1570.0           1124.4      1942.6      3075.3
CU!tCT CO0!tZS'FION PER CAPITA
L..OGZJJ  3F COL IQUIV    )         332.0       474.0      731.0           943.1      1646.7      2518.6
Por?UA'TOY AN) VITAL STATISTICS
POPU3LAIO*N,  -YEAR (KbLI0NS)        71. 5        95.2     116.1
naI POPLIITlON (PZtCR2I  01 TOTAL) 46.1          5M.9       60.7.            59.3       5L.2         72.1
populat08 PROJECTIONS
POpLATIOlN DN TM  2000 (M3LLIONS)                        200.0
STATflOKAAX POPUUATION (MILLIONS)                        361.0
U  STATIONARY PWPVLALON  IS RACRED                      Z075
?OPULATION OENSISY
PEL iQ1. IQ.                        S.0         11.0      14.0            23.5        28.2        33.5
?ER SQ. M. AIUCU5LZUR&L *AMD       44.0        49.0       57.0             60.5      100.5        91.3
POPULXIOK  GCE STM.C uI (PUCEFT)
3-1L4 3RS.                         *3.6        42.6       .1. 7            .0.9       35..        33.3
15-64  MS.                          53.8        56.3       55.1            5A.4        56.3        57.5
65 !IS. An ABOVE                     2.6         3.1        3.2             3.9         5.1         5.7
P0PULATIWON 2OWTH aATE (PERCENT)
ToTAL                               3.0          2.9       2.9              2.4        1. 7         2.1
11A1                                5.5         6.8        4.5             3.7         3.0
CHODE 31RTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      40.0         38.0      36.0             32.8       Z7.5         31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      11.0          9.0       9.0              8.5        9.1          8.2
=OSS REPR0ODCTION LATZ                2.6          2.6       2.4              2.4        1.8          1.9
FAMILY PLANINC
APCEZPFI5, ArAL (T?IOUSANDS)         ..        111.0     203.6
USDES (PU.CrYT or NARSLZD  WOIa)    ..           1.6        ..             17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
MDex Or FOOD PRODUCTION
FE& CWPMIA (1969-71LOO)            99.6       102.0      120.0            99.4       102.0        98.7
PE  CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
EQOUIRIENTS)                    102.0       106.0      105.0           107.0       120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           6L.0        66.0       62.1            60.4        30.9        70.3
or WHICH ALML.L AND PULSE        38.0         39.0      33.6            28.3        31.3
CaILD (AGZS 1-4) 4o0TALIT" RATE      .3.0         10.0       9.0              6.7        5.1         2.5
IEALTH
Ltn EXPETA2ICY AT  sa   (YEAR.S)    57.0         61.0       62.0            63.6        65.6        68.7
INPATrr NOiTALIT! SrI  (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..        ..             76.1       45. 5       20.8
ACCESS ro SAY3 JATER (PERCENT OF
?OPULAYION)
"CIAL                                          56.3       77.1            63.4        69.4        73.9
JRBAN                                *-         77.7      88.8             79.5       35.1        94.6
RURAL                                *-        29.0       56.8            38.6        43.0        64.6
ACC.ESS 7O ED REi' A DISPOSAL (PERCEST
OF POPVLATION)
-OTAL                                ..        59.9       64.8            58.8        70.1
3PASI                                . .       86.1       a3. 7           77. 8       88.3
XURAL                                .         26.5       31.7            Z4.5        33.2 
?POUPT:ON PER PHYSICIAN            3600.0       1910.0    1650.0           I1.9       1343.2       981.8
?OFU.AT&CN PER 4v.OI;CG ?PSON          ..       3220.0        ..           933.7       765.0       397.a
POFnLATION PER HOSPITAL BED
T0TAL                             275.3       260.0      Z60.0           563.4       197.S       240.6
MLBAN                                 .           .         *-           279.4       260.2
UAL                                  ..           .         .           1140.9      1055.0
ADMISS CNS PER 3OSPITAL SED            ..         18.0        *-             5.7        l7.3        19.2
AVYEA1E S7Z- OF 3OUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5. 1        4.8        ..9             5.0           7
LBAN                                .4. .                 4.7              4.8        4.4.
RLa1AL                               ..         5.2        5.3             5.3         5.1
0VERACZ -LGBER DF 7RSONS PER RtOOM
STOAL                                *-         1.1        1.11f           1.3         1.1
.HL5A1                              . .         1.20      1.               1. 3       1.2
ILTRAL                                          1.2        1. /f           1.5         1.2
ACCESS -O ELEC=:CSTY  ?"-CEST
TOTAL                             38.7         47.6      63.0             54. 3      66.3
RLKRAN75.6                                                34.9            63.1        35.1
R 2SA L                              ..           ..       92.4 



ANNEX I
-2?.5 -                                         Page 2
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
3RAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (AOJUSTED A ERAGES
- MOST RECENT  STMATE ) -
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP Ic
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        83.0      8               107.3      101.7       107.6
MAO.!                97.0        83.0      F7.2            109.1      110.0
FEMALE               93.0        83.0      8h.2            107.4       92.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 11.0        27.0      26.0             40.5       51.2        39.7
MA.LE                11.0        27.0      2c.0             40.4       56.4
FEMALE               10.0        27.0      26.0             39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  19.0        17.0      47.OL0           18.5       18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        28.0       27.0            37.1       27.1
SECONDARY                         13.0        13.0      15.0             17.9       25.3
ADWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0        6 .       6!.0             77.4       86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS ?ER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0        25.0      45.0             29.1       53.4        68.1
RADIO RECEIVERS FER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.0       126.0     158.0            172.1      225.9       210.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        18.0        66.0     100.0             67.9      102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        37.0      39.0             76.1       78.5
CINEBA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0         1.9       2.6              4.2        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0     29400.0  34100.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.5        20.4      21.6             21.5       24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9        45.6      42.0             30.2       28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8        18.3      20.0            23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.0        31.6      31.5             30.9       33.8        40.1
MALE                                52.7        50.3      49.5             47.3       51.3        55.7
FEMALE                              11.2        12.8       13.6            13.3       16.3        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.5        1.4             1.5        1.3         1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSENOLDS     ..          ..        ..             23.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF 8OUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5      62.0             58.7       57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8         3.2       2.8              2.9        3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0       9.4              9.9       11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            265.6
RURAL                               ..          ..    150.0             185.1
ESTIMATED RELAGIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    465.0             396.3      550.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    332.0            308.1      4603.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
pOVERTY INCOME LZVEL (PERCENT)
UR3AN                               ..          ..        ..             35.2
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..             46.6
Not available
Yot applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicaror are  opulation-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic    -cin  ,mer.c5 I Caribbean;  /d  Upper Xiddle Income (S1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  le High Income
(over S2500 per capita, 1976);   If  1972;  jL  Beginning 1973, duration of general education reduced
from 7 to 4 years, therefore data may not be comparable to those of earlier years.
Host Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



- 26 -
ANNEX T
DEFINITIONS O? SOCIAL, INDICATR= 
~:tThe adjusted group averages  or each indicator are populanion-weighted geometric means,. ecluding the notoeme raise  of ore undicanu  -Cc te coot
popul.,atd country In each group.  Coverage of counties ang the  nictr  depends on  -oilabllnv of data and isvn  cdrt                               u  to    C lot vid-a
group average  for  Capital larpla- Oil importers and indicators of acces  to water and excrte dIs.Posa, ho.Sing.  ioco.. distribution and poverty  r
simple. .ppultiom-eighted geome.tric meass without the sluonof extrme value.
LAND AREA (thousau.d sq.  td oualoervo-ccal bed - total, orba. und cocc 1- 1Pacltio-ucl
Coral -  oalsrfc  aroa vonyninisg land ara and inland water.uhn   s   oci-iIe   ynd  res                                                    o    unro   vptlbd
ior-cultural - Mo4st r.uent estimate of agricultural ares used tmoaiy                      aaahein pabluc and private  eea  ard speuluine.  hosputal sodre
on peranenty forcrops,pastues, mrker and kitchee gardens or so                  habilitation centers.   ocepitalsoeetblbet  praetysafdb
ie. fallow,                                                                               at least one pnrs4ica.  intailishneets p-ovding priocipally cu.stod4Ia
Care are norIcldd    Ruralonpuas   hoevr inlde heat  an-d medi-
IMP PINCAPItA'135)    IMP pe  capIt  eatlotes an  urrentmarketprices  cal ceters nn pernnentlp  tuffedby a oosuctan'hut bt              a nedcal an
calclatd b  nae cnvesIo   neho       sc World Bank Atlas  119751-77 basin);          ulerant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  hich offer in-vtient  comdno   an
1960. 17,and 1.97" doserviealxcs   ag  oftnedlual faciites
Admissions pe  hopitol bed -  oa   obro   dinoac   rdischnarge
iNADCISKPTISN PER CAPITA I-Ane  coswtnhf omrileergy                                    from sosptnal  divided 'op    nyccme  o   es
(coal and   'Igt'n, petroleu, ntrlgas and bydro-, ncerand go-
themleetricIty) in kilograms of co.  eqIaln  per capta.dSItf
Average size of  -soushcd (persons per  oshl)-ttl  orban. and rural -
POPItLAtIObN AND VfITAL STATISTICSO           A                                               s toc-eobl,  holo co-iens of u groP of  -o,odal   ho shao lIving psater
avrage orfw   n-erncons I961, 1.970, and 1977 dana.                                       toe househonld tortasiatintualvupss           Sitncadeotosofcu-
trban POPulat.ion (percent of total) -_Rtioof  rba.nototl ppul-                             blddery
non different deInt'ions ourasesmyaffect oepsruhility                                   Average noxcar ofprsn  per con-otal.  urba,udrnl-deu                            or
ofPdati- amongz conresre of petrsoss pa r roo  i  al,r   urbn,  ndrurl   outo   covetonal .
PopuLato  dencodellgs    esetie- Mseligdesldeu--oraPn oricrno ov
Per  so.'em. -P.ld-var poplationper square kilome.ter (100 bectareel             unoccupied p..0cm.
of total area.                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~Access no olcell o (ro'eetnofdanilas -.-   tnl  uranZndrra
Perno t'x caglou-ue iand -Computed as above for  goulra lndaveical  olig   1ceocic.rI   oigvatr  an prcentag
only.                                                              o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~f total, urban, and ruraldelig  erpounvel.,
P.uitlo  age  trutr  (cement; ,- Children  (0-14 year), workieg-age
(il-hi years), andreired  (65t yeas and oe)a  percentages of mid-                    iItCATTONI
year population.                                                                      Ad)unted enrollment ration
Population grwth rote  (perent) - total,and urban - Compound annual           PrImar  school -           aoel   nd female - Tlord  and female enrollment of nil ages
grow:thae  otoaenurnmid-Cyea  poPulations for 1950-hf,                                     at ntnetprimbary level an percentages of ro--oln yprinary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-71.                                                                     populations; nontaliy includes Childre   gs  -iyar   u  ajoe   for
Crude birth rate (per thoosa..d) - Annual lIve births per thonca.nd of                      differenteegnthn. of pimary eduction; for countre  ciai                vrnI ads-
mid-year populItios; tee-year arithmetic averagee cediog ia 1960 end                      cation eerounen   sa y exceed 100 pretsince some pupils urn below or
1971 sod fiv-pyear arcrgs ..disg in 1971 for mast recent estimate,                        abov  the o'ffiia   choae
Crude death rate (per thousa.nd) - OnAaI deaths Per thtusand of mid-                      le-odaro n-bool - tonal, and feal  -toputed as  -,ov; secndary educo-
year population; iso-year arithmetic averages  ending ist1960 and 1970                    Zion requIres at least four yearn of approvedprnyistuio;rO
an-d five-dyear overage ending in 1975 for most re...n et .imate.                          cues. general voctionl-       rtece r       oliaicsnrunnion scr n-pilo
10055  'reOOOt... rate - Average comber nf daeghncrs a unman will bea-salyo  12 no 17 yasofae  cure .nt, _o u  C.-urne  ar  ge-sorly
in her normlIn-roductl-  period if she eperiences pennan..t agc-                           -lcdd..
specific fertility rates;   sualy fiv-ea   wragc  ening in 1960,                        'lctoalerinen(ecnto   eodary' - VIcctan.na  i-Cututic                            u
IgyS. asd 1971.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-dud   technical, induntrial, or oce  prgrams whico  operaecdeped-onlp
Family Plann.ing  - .acetnrs.. annua I(thosn)- AnnuaI  -aber of                             or as departments of neCondry i-atintnion.
actptors of hirth-contrl devices uder asices of national family                      Pupil-teacher reio - crimary. and necondaro    Total students  ovld1
Plann    rga.primary and secondary 1evoi  divided by  un..brs of teachers in the. come-
family  lan.ning - . srs fepcceen  of married wmc    Prc.entage of                          'podin lels
married  .omen.ot oui..d-bea..ing  age (11-44 yent) who use birth-.notrl              Acult literacy, rat.   pecnt    Literate  adlt   able no rod and c-te) (o
device  no almaried women in saee  age group.                                             a  er-etage of totaladl  population eged ii yearn ar.d .o.r
POOD AND NIITRITISO                                                                      CCNSLT!N?'TC
Inde, offo   rdcinper capita (1970-100) - Index nmber of Per-                            P.Saseger coes (per thouand sopuleni-) - P.assenger corn ropniusotre ar
oPita  ena  poution of all food cosodlties.                                            -etlcg  ions  than eight pern...co; occude  a         -la ..n .ea.se  sdoilna ry
Per canna 00010 of clories(percet of r-nuiremats) - Componed ft..                vehicles.
anerg  equlalet of men food nopplies avilable  is coutry Per capita               Radio rcivers  A7rtosn   ocuin       ll trypes of r -cives for radio
per day.  Arcilahie. supplite  seprise domestic production, lxpnrrslens:,               broa,dcast  nognra.uli             .e thocu.and ofi rpsiatlon; onlde-  ulnlie-e
emport~, and chonges In Stock.  Se  supplie  e-olde animafed  seeds                     reciver  icontries and is   .              . verswrn  egsra.tion   f ruduc sets ..ss c
qatitie  use.d Ia fond Process.ing:, and lasses in distriboti-s  Re-                  effect; data for recnt yer       -myot be c-nnarsblo  since cost contries
quirements were estimated by FAO base.donphysiolog"ica  needs for no-                       _hoabd lcnig
mel activity sod health  seniderdeg evrmmaltemperature, body                           CV   c rnivern  (vet thonueand  -ocain   -I; oiev,ru  frbodcas  tno gnr
veightsag   and        dl ditr ihanat   of ppato,and allowiog 10 per-                     poblic pe   husn    oplton   n                 -ice  o. -cosd iToevrs in con
cent for w_sn  at house.hold lee,Ire  and in. pears when regIstration 's...t5osvon
Per capita sapple of erorelo  (aras set day) - Protein cotent of Per---ae   iulcuo(e   huadpsuaun       hw   o   -trage   icua
capita net supply of food pe  day .  let napply of food is defined as                      tnbc of"dily generai interest uesae'sdiodc  a perIodIcal public-
abov._   5,qsiremect  for all coutsestablished by USDA provide for                        caindvtdprimarily no  -recrding generalonu,Iti  con_dre  no
aIminImu   aiownn.ce of hI gramca of tonal protein per day and 10 grams                   be  daiy   If ippears as leant four tires and
ofanimal and pulse protein.  of  hbich 1I grams should be a"isaI protein.             CInema aneui attendance P.' casino peryu   ~-cbuoo   r   anoyr utiezkts
These standards are lower- than these of 7l gaSt       of total protein and               s-id doting the yea, including auus st   or-ncuo_nu  o-d obhi-
23 grams ofaimlprtinu as   average for the worl d, proposed by                            .eits.
PAdIn th   hr  hol   od Surey
Per capita protein sunoy frm anmaland noise - Protein supply of food   ~ L0TPLOYNT
.derive  from animals .md pulses is grams per day.                                       .tot  alboor  fore (thousan.ds) - Eoor-mical   crv   eros1touuo   re
Chud (gesI-) mrnals  roe  (arthousand) - An-na  deaths per th.us-                 force  and uneployed hot ...cludcsg iouou.vs.aoet,tc lfi-
and in age grouP 1-a yearn, to obuildre  in this age group.                               tosin -ri-a  countries are oct coopur"nl
fomele (percent)~~~~~~~ -  iae labor f orn as percennugo ofct   ao  fre
OEAIT9                                                                                    Arclue nect)-la.bor force us zriing, forstry, ucucig and(uto
Life     " ..p.nno  ct birth (pears) - hostage number of years of life                      as percentage of tonal labor force
reaniga  bIrth; usual ly five-yea  averages endin,g in~ 1960, 1970,             Industry  percent) - Labor force in minng   onar-uonio,    -cfanrlgo
and 1075.                                                                                 olectrieitc, cater and gas as peroontage  of c...  labrfrce
Infant mra  t   ae(e huad    A-1hna  seams of infants under                              Particlpatucn rate fp-r-nol - coral, ..rao   an7eal              occ,sale, and
oneyea  of age  e   huadliebirhts.                                                         eaelbryrea   eocoe   rtetrsetvtC.c~t
Access  nosfe ouer(prcn  of o-oulatioe   - corel, urban, and rural                          ' hese are10's adjoetedpriipuo rtertott    c-
Somber of psople  ntl  uran lod rura) with  tens.eacs   osrn oeo   h   osolo    nd lo   lrooa
nucawane  suply (nclues teate  sufc   aesor untreated but                     Iccci   de.ecoenu, rat-o - natcc0   vunlc-o . c-  tacje0c
anceniamlnetes woter suco as that from prtguted bo reh-s, springs,             the -anon rorc  cc ago -rrp zf l -c-cc.
and sanitaryoel.n pereenneges of their repectIve-               pines
-anubanara   public fountain or snadp-e llotcatd no  soreCM lfID ISTITICTIOtS
ron tlnnrn frmh-      s   say. heb conidered as being within rea.yeuntageofor--atr  ucoome  hboti -s Caso- ac cuoc  -e--cd cv -rooo
sae- ccs   ftsruue.             ua  areas roeaonable acoess woold                  Peroet, ioetlprcn, ccecI  cncoP.co  vovst'.
imply chat the, osew        r n amebers of the household lo not hte n                     ofhosol.
spend a dinpr-porciosare part of the day isnethigthe familly's
water sca ds.                                                                         PP'PPICY TARGOT GROCPS
Acces.n.e.     rt d...r Ispsl'ecn f-ooulatlon(  -  oa,ubn nd                             Estimatod abuliteocet. une- .-oel <III ver cota-ooncua
ru-e   4- Oumcr  fpol   nn            rba,ad  ursi.) served by exirta                        boli  poverty bo-ne loaI          stu   on    ee   oo   cx
dipslmy Include the. colletinsd disosa,  lti or without                              affordable.
craneo, ofhcanenrera and waste-water bys. vae-bee-  sysemsInuae  rolutuve po-eto uren                                        -~i  "95 Percnna      sco   n
or ohs use of nut orivies ad simlrIsaatos                                         Oelacioe co-sr'7 Ino         - ce  In  hanicom   oe   esco              -or
Populcisun per shniclan - Populou- divided by number of practicing                    er capita persona  Income ofro   -octrt1.
Ph-oicl.ao  quaifIed from a medical s-onol an univerity level.                         f_ctrraned  -osalaiennlwcen    soo0e.pecoi-ru   c   u   
Po .olation no .ors iog _ersn - PsywI.ac.un divided by nanct o                              Percen.t  ofrop-iom  ur- c   ualcnsoether  ub-ou   poo   or
prooticung mae and leoaie  rad-ac   cren    ...cnicai tureen,. and                  rltv    or   hcee ngetr
ussontant curses.~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-s-1m
looocu  uo Scia  Tco Ici- z



- 27 -                                                ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                          Page 4
Population-       122.7      (mid-1979)
CNP Per Capita:  US$1,633  (1979)
Amount                          Average Annual Increase (. .                   Share of GDP a' Market Prices (75
Indicator                                         (million ISO current)                     (at consta-t 1970 prices)                                Iccrn res)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                 1965      1970      197.      1979
National Accounts
Gross dome5tic prod-ctat                                206,043                           7.7         10.6          5.8                   100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agricolture                                            19,462                           19           5.7          4.3                    13.2       8.2      8.7       9.5
Industry                                              65,583                            9.2         11.6          6.1                    27.1     29.1      32.6      31.0
Services                                              87,636                            8.0         10.7          5.8                   42,9      43.0      41.3      42.5
CGnnumption                                             163,739                           7.7          9.8          6.1                    75.9      76.9     78.6      79.5
-  Gross investment                                      46,530                           9.4         14.6          4.6                    22.0      23.5     25.4      22.6
c-po-ts ut goods und NPS                                 15,245                           8.2         11.2          6.2                     7.4       6.6      7.4       7.4
Imports of goods and NSF                                 19,47t                          14.5         17.2          1.5                     5.3       7.0     11.4       9.5
GroIs domestic savings                                   42,304                           7.9         12.9          6.1                    24.1      23.1     21.4      20.5
A -ount                         Average Ann..l Increase - 7- )                 Co-positiac of -ter-ladi-se Trade (75
(million US$ current)                     (at constant 1970 prices)                            (at corrent price)
1979                          1965-70      1970-75      1975-80                   t966     1970      1975      1980b/
Merchandise Trade
Inrhbandise  exports                                    15,244                           7.8         11.5          6.5                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary                                                6,631                           7.3          8.5         -6.8                    82.9      75.1      61.8      57.9
Manufactures                                           8,613                           7.9         12.2          8.3                     17.1     24.9      38.2      42.1
Merchandise imports                                     17,961                          10.0         13.6          8.3                    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                                     985                          -3.8          5.3         24.9                     11.5      4.5       3.0       6.5
Petroleum                                             6,698                            9.3         14.1          8.3                    14.7      11.2      24.5      52.1
Machinery and eqsipm.nt                                2,242                          22.1         16.8       -15.9                      15.2     21.2      14.0      16.6
Other                                                  6,036                           8.3         12.6         13.5                     58.6     63.1      58.5      24.8
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
Prices and Tems oF Trade
GDP deflator (1970=100)                                 289.6      410.9     584.2      809.2   1,229.6
Etchange rate (Ct$/U8$)                                   8.1       10.6      14.1       18.0       26.8
Export price index (1970=100)                           189.0     218.0      266.0      238,5      262.3
Import price index (1970-100)                           221.0     227.0      236.0      241.9      295.0
Tens of trade index (1970-100)                           85.5       96.0     112.7       98.6       88.6
As % of GOP
(at current prices)
1970      1975       1978
Public Finanue
Current reven                                                      16.6      19.8       20.4
Current expenditure                                               14.4       15.8       18.6
Ssrplus  (+) or deficit (-)                                         2.2       4.0        1.8
Capital expenditure                                                 2.6       3.8        3.9
Financini (net)                                                     0.4      -0.2        2.1
1965-70     1970-75      1975-79
Other Indictors
GNP grsth rare                                                                 7.7         10.7          5.8
GNP per capita grosth rate (7.)                                                4.6           7.7         3.0
Energy cssmption g-osth rate (7,                                               7.2          7.3          6.5
ICOR                                                                            2.9          3.0          3.9
Marginal savings rate                                                          20.5        25.7         22.7
Impert elastitity                                                              2.2           1.6         0.3
a/ At market prices; components are net domestic prodtucs expressed at factor cost and
will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect taxes less subsidies.
b6 Estimate
April 25, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                            Page
(million US$Sat current prices)
Population:        122.7 million (mid-1979)
CNP Pen Capita:  US$1,633  (1979)
ACTUAL                                                                        PROECTED
1970          1975           1976          1977           1978           19791/        1980           1981          1082           1983          t984
Ralance af Pautrnta
Net eapants af goods and  -e-oi-a                        -583        .6,702        -6,018         -4,037         -5,999        -9,774        -11.610       -12,052        -10,476         -9,086       -_.67b2
Eaports of gRads                                    (2,739)        (8,670)      (10,128)       (12,120)      (12,659)       (15,244)      (20,182)       (25,075)       (29,715)      (35,503)       (42,361)
Imparts of goada                                    (2,507)       (12,210)      (12,383)       (12,023)      (13,683)       (17,961)      (22,1268       (26,256)       (28.8717      t31.n83t       (34,9)99
Ns trtnsOfars                                              21             2              1           -               72             17            30             40            50             (0             50
C arret accoa- t balance                                 -562        -6,700        -6,017         -4,037         -5,927        -9,757        -11,580       -12,012        -10,429         -9,036        -6,622
Direct pricate investment2/                                92           892            959           810            906         2,200          1,100         1,145          1,200          1,242         1,300
M&LT las  net                                            767         3,760          5,023         4,631          8,819         4,995          9,262        10,838         11,317         10,437         8,576
Traditional soart.                                    (833)        (1,408)       (2,052)        (2,648)        (2,793)       (2,738)        (2,881)       (3,538)        (4,114)       (4,620)        (5,104)
Fin-acial teedits                                     (434)        (4,524)       (5,980)        (6,118)      (11,312)        (8,808)      (13.599)       (15,222)       (14,616)      (11,665)       (13,345)
A=o-ti-ati..                                         (-632)       (-2,172)      (-3,009)       (-4,135)       (-5,286)      (-6.551)      (-7,218)       (-7,922)       (-7,447)      (-5,848)       ('9,933)
B-nuelias Ions abroad (set)                             -              -197           -248          -267           -358          -596           -782        -1,096         -1,434        -1,890         -2,477
Ether capital o.1 .i.                                     248         1,295          2,627          -507            440            -61          -              -             -              -             -
Ch-oc0  in rrsero            .. (-locrease)-             -545           950         -2,344          -630         -3,880         3,219          2,000         1,125           -654           -753          -}77
In--rnatitnsl  ---4rit                                 1,142          3,980         6,488          7,192        11,826          8,966          6,966         5,841          6,495         7,248          8,025
Rssaroas as  menabs of imparts-                             5.5            3.9           6.3            7.2          10.4            6.0           3.8            2.?            2.7           2.7            2.8
ACT 7AL
1974          1975           1976          1977           1978          1979
Gross Disb-rsaso-c
Total gross disbarsese-t of MNLTI .a.s                                7,254          5,932         8,032         8,766         14,105        11,546ls&
Pablic  and  pablicly  guaranteed                                   2,937         3,731          4,624         4,620         10,356
Official esp-rt credits                                             408           396            368           167            413
IBRD                                                                247           250            173           299            275
Ocher - altilaurral                                                 139           119            111             92           136
Pei-noe source                                                   2,143          2,966          3,972         4,062          9,532
fei-toe non- guarsaled                                              4,317          2,201         3,408         4,146          3,749
External Debt
Total debt o.st- sdisg and disbars.d                                 17,576         21,920        26,984         32,224        43,174        49,9046I
Public sad  publicly  gusas-teed                                    9,394        12,328         15,851        19,218         27,223
Official source                                                   3,276         3,854         4,320          4,612          5,229
IBRD                                                             (871)       (1,093)       (1,217)        (1,413)        (1,615)
Other                                                          (2,405)       (2,761)        (3,103)       (3,199)        (3,614)
Pi      source                                                    6,118         8,474         11,531        14,606         21,994
Pri-re no--ga.r..teed                                               8,182         9,592         11,133        13,006         15,951
Uadibursed debt (public tnly)                                        2,524          2,380         3,446          4,004         4,535
Debt Service
Total debt serite pypmeats                                            3,290         4,035          5,100          6,597         8,628         11,812
I--erst (gross)                                                    (1,370)       (1,863)        (2,091)       (2,462)        (3,342)       (5,261)
PFp'estss- s P. of Eaporc-  &NES                                         38.8          43.0           47.2           51.4          64.1           72.6
Paseans as 'G of GNP                                                      3.1            t.3           3.6            4.1           4.7            5.9
loerage interest rare as sea lasas (T.)                                   10.6           9.0            8.0           8.3            9.8
Official s.urce                                                         7.0            7.8           7.9            8.0            7.7
Anerage  at-rity of  es  .a.se                                            10.9           8.7           10.2          10.1           10.1
Offictal source                                                        14.6           28.4          16.3           16.6          14.1
Pri-ate sourts                                                          9.7            5.8           7.0            9.0           9.6
IBRD Epestree
IBRD DOD/t-tal DOD (.)                                                     5.0           5.0            435           4.4            3.7           3.6
IBRD disb-rs-ets/to-al gross disbare-mees ('G)                             3.4           3.6            2.2           3.5            1.7           2.6
IBD dabr sernRce/teeal debt seenice (7.)                                  2.4           2.5            3.3           4.0            2.9           2.0
As 2 of total debt oaratanding
at -ed rf Jose 1979
Debt Stractare
Mt-rity structure of debt o-tses-disg
Nataritles dac sithie 5 years                                                                               66.3
Msruniies  dae aitbis 10 Pears                                                                              9Z.6
1/ Estimate.
2/ Exsludig re-isre-ted pafi-ts.
3/  Exc-Iding dallar nalastio-  djsst-eans.
4/ Exclsdisg gold, and i-cludiag dllarn aluatios adjustmeats.
5t uead. osly.
6/ Details snavailable.
April 25, 1980



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
forty-five loans fully disbursed                                   1,485.0
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0           5.7
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7             .1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0          14.3
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        42.3          15.0
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0          23.7
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         36.0           0.3
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5          13.7
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0          18.4
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0          26.0
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0          52.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0          50.4
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0          11.8
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0          25.9
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0            10.4
1206   1976  Brazil                              Development Bank   35.0             6.2
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0          47.6
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0          30.1
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0           1.4
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                49.0          11.7
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of February 29, 1980)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                        Power                 50.0          20.8
1302    1976  Brazil                            Nutrition             19.0          17.0
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply              40.0          23.0
1317    1976  Brazil                            Agro-Industry         83.0          83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                         Power                 82.0          41.1
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   42.0            21.6
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes           Fertilizer            64.0          54.0
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer            55.0          10.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  Brazil                            Education             32.0          28.9
1488    1977  Brazil                            Rural Development   17.0            14.3
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                 110.0         100.5
1537    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   24.0            22.0
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power                130.0         129.9
1557    1978  Brazil                            Roads                114.0         110.9
1562    1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals        85.0          73.3
1563    1978  Brazil                            Urban Transport       88.0          76.8
1568    1978  Brazil                            Agric. Extension   100.0            97.1
1589    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   37.0            34.6
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0                93.0
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               100.0
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.             Aluminum              98.0          88.9
1714    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   26.0            26.0
1720 /1 1979  Brazil                            Urban Development   70.0            70.0
1721    1979  COPEL                             Power                109.0         109.0
1728    1979  Brazil                            Rural Development   40.0            40.0
1729    1979  Brazil                            Irrigation            28.0          28.0
1730    1979  Brazil                            Roads                110.0         110.0
Total                                              4,469.4 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 613.5
Total now outstanding                              3,855.9
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             42.5            3.3
Total now held by Bank                             3,852.6
Total undisbursed                                                  1,989.7
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



ANNEX II
_311 -                                      Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal Year                           Obligor                                      Type of Business         Amount in us$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                     Electrical Equipment        2.00       -       2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                           Pulp and Paper              1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                           Automotive Parts            0.45       -       0.45
1958              Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                     Motor Vehicles              2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                Cement                      1.20       -       1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                    Pulp                        4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                        Steel                       8.00      1.93     9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                         Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41     7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                         Fertilizers                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                   Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                    Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88     8.38
1971               Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio                         Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44     6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                  Pulp                        4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                     Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                Steel                      76.97      7.50    84.47
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                   Capital Market
Development               5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                     Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                  Refining                  85.00      8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                  Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment           6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                           Textiles                   31.00       -      31.00
1975/1979          Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                           Carbon Black                6.18      1.49     7.37
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals             10.00       -      10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.              Textiles                    6.45      1.00     7.45
197611980          Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste              Textiles                   16.20       -      16.20
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                             Iron and Aluminum
Castings                 20.00       -      20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                Mining                     15.00       -      15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                     Iron and Steel             7.0       3.0     10.0
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S. A.                   Motor Vehicles             60.00     5.00    65.00
1980               Hering do Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                           Ready-made Garments        2.00       -        2.00
1980               Dende do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura,
Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                      Palm Oil                    3.50      1.00     4.50
1980               Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                  Iron and Steel             5.00       -        5.00
1980               PPH - Companhia Industrial de Polipropileno                 Chemicals and Petro-
Chemicals                15.00      2.00    17.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                              451.24    47.80   499.04
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                               322.89      8.52   331.41
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                    128.35    39.28   167.63
Total Undisbursed                                                                    129.75      9.28   139.U3



ANNEX II
Page 41
C<   PYOYE TS IN  O;CUmT0N 1
As of February 29, 1980, there were 45 effective Bank loans under
i isbur seme-nt:
roan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
-fectiv  Date:  October 29, 2971; Closing Date:  September 30, 1980.
'er long delays, project exezution is proceLding satisfactorily.
Pr1Jecl completion is now expected by end-1980.  The financial
condition of the port of Santos has improved. Price escalation for
civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
i..Lcrease is in local currency and is expected to be covered by addi-
.ional allocations from brazil's federal port authority, PORTOBRAS.
853       Alto Turi La-nd Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of
Julyv 24, 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31,, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
project are also nearing completion and 8,000 families have settled
in the project area, more than half already receiving full project
services.  However, the project has taken longer than expected to
complete, having been subject to administrative delays in the
release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
ring land titles to settlers, and cost overruns presently amounting
'.o a'2eut 240%.  The Closing Date for this loan has been postponed
tc 'D)ecember 31, 1980 to allow the Borrower sufficient time to meet
'- -ad payments on equipment contracts.
W''.3'    Ti ~it<  zara Evdroelef-ric Proiect:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
11; Effective Date.  October 30., 1973; Closing Date:  December 31,
192',. The project is about 75% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems and very heavy rains which delayed construction
of the earthfill dam.  The present cost estimate is about 54% over
the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
lncreased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works.
11   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lemts which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  Ihey should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
tnat they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds were prepaid by the Government,
reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commitments
under this loan were almost at a standstill as a result of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down in indus-
trial investments. The original Closing Date was postponed once--
from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In view of the slow
disbursement, and the fact that commitments under Loan No. 1317-BR
had not yet started, the Bank decided to allow the Closing Date to
lapse, and has cancelled the amount of US$11,737,035.97, correspond-
ing to the uncommitted balance of Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30,
1979. The Borrower will be permitted to draw down until June 30,
1980 up to the amount of US$16,537,353.30, corresponding to the
amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30, 1979 against
approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that date.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 1980
This project is substantially completed. As of February 29, 1980,
99% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project imple-
mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
and have yielded useful information for future sector investment
planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
postponed to June 30, 1981.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are completed. Implementation
of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
making progress after some initial delays.  The closing date originally
December 31, 1979 has beenwpostponed to December 31, 1981.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials, some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program, and funding shortfalls from the federal government.
The Government has reassigned priority to the steel sector, and no
further financial difficulties are envisaged. Substantial changes
were made resulting in better management and control of the project.
The project remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project was revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance of the
availability of sufficient federal funding because of the priority
assigned to the steel sector by the federal government, no further
delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is US$1.7 billion
which is 44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project
remains economically justified.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 and again in early 1980 has further delayed
project progress. Current cost estimates show an increase of at
least 80% over the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These
increases have resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the
costs of civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expro-
priation. Further adjustment in project composition is being
considered in view of the 1979 and 1980 floods. The closing date
has been postponed to December 31, 1982.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is completed. The technical assistance
program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing,
and data processing systems is showing results. FEPASA's financial
position, however, continues to remain extremely weak. Active
consideration is being given to ways in which this situation can
be corrected. The closing date for this loan was postponed to
December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
final payments on equipment contracts.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. Phase II, now
just beginning, would sharpen the project's focus on the lowest
income farmers and would include new components in the areas of
marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services, seed
production, and inland fisheries. A serious drought in 1979,
coupled with delays in the release of funds, has slowed down the
implementation of Phase II. The closing date for this loan was
postponed to September 30, 1982 to allow disbursements to coordinate
effectively with Phase II.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
interest rates, there was little demand for loan funds, and as of
year-end 1979, about US$52.5 million of the Bank loan remained
uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to persist, the
Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Government will request
cancellation of an additional US$2.5 million. The Closing Date
of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to enable
completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
ments have not been completed.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.  Thirteen sub-projects involving ten different
states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goias.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. Imposed hiring constraints
also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
and an expanded program of civil works to recuperate previous
shortfalls.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date:  JulY 20, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Major project works were completed on schedule but overall project
completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
postponed by six months, to June 30, 1980. An amount of US$3.0
million of the loan proceeds has been cancelled at the request of
the Borrower since it could not be utilized for project related
expenditures.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
tion regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement
is now progressing satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
Substantial improvements in the management of the project companies
have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Field tests of nutrition delivery systems
are proceeding reasonably well. After initial delays, food techno-
logy research, manpower training, and special studies have become
fully operational. However, the overall performance of this project
has been unsatisfactory. No disbursements have been made under the
industrial credit component because of competitive programs at
subsidized rates. Measures to deal with this component and to
improve INAN's organizational and management capabilities, are
currently under review by the Government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
began only in 1979. However, the continuing existence of competing
credit lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this
loan unusable. The Government is expected to request cancellation
of the uncommitted balance of this loan.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
Loan disbursements are progressing according to appraisal forecast.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. This project is progressing satisfactorily
and close to schedule after initial delays. Mainly as a result of
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by
landless producers was initially significantly lower than originally
envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
participating banks have improved this situation markedly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
October 1, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
within the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
affecting project execution. US$27.0 million of the loan proceeds
has been cancelled at the request of the Borrower since the cost
for equipment was much less than originally anticipated, and the
funds could not be used for other appropriate project-related
expenditures.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers is proceeding within cost estimates
but about one year behind schedule. Administrative problems which
have contributed to delays in the rural training component are being
resolved, but the hotel training component continues to encounter
implementation difficulties. The technical assistance program is
underway at the training centers.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project in general is proceeding satisfac-
torily although local funding delays have been a recurring problem.
Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
credit, input supply, marketing and storage services are making
good progress, while the parts of the project relating to agricul-
tural mechanization and cooperative societies organization are
progressing at a slower than expected rate. The recent establish-
ment of a land agency in Ceara has enabled the land purchase credit
component to get underway.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
of three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is
progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
plants, committing approximately US$60 million of the loan.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Project implementation has slowed down due to funding delays. Civil
works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
to the smaller farmers and tenants. The health and water supply
components are suffering from planning and training weaknesses.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Reconstruction of highways foreseen under the project is proceeding
satisfactorily. There have been delays in the delegation of
highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
low salary scales, and because the states will not accept respon-
sibility for federal highways until they have been rehabilitated.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
varied widely among the five cities involved. The Curitiba sub-
project is the furthest advanced.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized, and project execution proceeded satis-
factorily during FY 1979. Early local funding delays appear to have
been resolved in late 1979. Means to resolve current problems in
achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
First year implementation of the project advanced satisfactorily
after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
majority of the compcnents, and targets for the number of farmers
to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
project activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
in state administrations and dismissal of a large number of
project-funded staff. Funding delays in year two have compounded
difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
and the restoration of appropriate coordination and integration of
project activities.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
been experienced in Salvador.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.  The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
investment program of the project water companies for the period
1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
approved and construction is underway. However, because of initial
difficulties, the project may be completed with about a one-year
delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$48.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. All components are in the early stages of
implementation.
1721      Copel Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 13
Loan No.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period has been longer
than expected, in part due to initial delays in the release of
counterpart funds.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Several subproject
applications have been received by the National Development Bank,
and are being evaluated.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country
to prepare project:        Approximately 17 months
(from November 1977 to April 1979)
(b)  Project prepared by:       MEC
(c)  First presentation
to the Bank:               July 1977
(d)  First Bank mission to
consider the project:    November 1977
(d)  Departure of
Appraisal Mission:         April 1979
(e)  Completion of
Negotiations:              April 15, 1980
(f)  Planned Deadline
for Effectiveness:         September 1, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  PMU to be established as a condition of effectiveness, each SPMU
to be established as a condition of disbursement in that state,
and each OME to be established as a condition of disbursement in
that municipality (para. 55).
(b)  Signing of a project agreement with one state as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 71).
(c)  Hiring of an independent entity to carry out a baseline and
evaluation study of basic education in two states as a condition
of effectiveness (paras. 63 and 71).
(d)  Signing of project and sub-project agreements as a condition of
disbursement for each state or municipality (para. 71).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) CEBRACE to approve site and construction plans for all school
construction under the project (para. 45).
(f) Prototype textbooks to be tested for an appropriate period,
in-service training of teachers in new curriculum to be carried
out, and MEC to review new teaching materials (para. 47).
(g) Municipal governments to grant trained teachers a two-year contract,
and prepare a teachers' charter to be presented to the municipal
councils within three years of loan signing (para. 49).
(h) Government to furnish updated implementation schedules to the
Bank annually, by end December of each year (para. 57).
(i)  Retroactive financing permitted up to US$1.5 million for expendi-
tures incurred from March 1, 1980 for certain items (para. 61).






IBRD 14947
48- 3uu                                                                                                                                        APRtL 19fo
A T I A    T IC c                                                     B R AZ Z I L
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
/                                                                        8KtWMETETR , 0    50 10    1 290  250
(                                                                                  0       50 tS0    iSO
P A R AjSAO
/                                 t                                Sobrat0
FORTALEZA
-4-           /                                             (t;/2285poedbdede.o  I                                                                        S
J~~~~~ ~~~~~~ ,f     ,                                  boA~,.      Cones
A300                                               nrt-
TERESINA            \\  gratefS      (/  Mosor
V  C E A  R A                                                     E ('RlO GRANDE DO OE
3   6                                   r            , *3GR      -
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E2 Xs P;COS                    {JQZ128N  -            tA,Lopia                            C
/\ A! R A N H A CA M B        YtE
i   3                      .                  /: +,             ef   >_  Floresta                 foje
.IV,~~~~~~
Picos                                                       ama/   JdcobnistArcoaerde
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /Ju6z6raoNortejr ZAnde                                                                    rf 
12  ?  B                                       FArHI Ago-in             A247
Q ~     ~      Br Jeu                   SebrSptno 
/ (\ I  Atrt s      ,
Pe E  RL-NDA  M# B                                        d ,C6 st6
r JesusFloresom Jesus do 
i2!!                                            BoAsH                      i  eua                        ooition       lss    rosGael OC     ;9zAEANr
Seobro0 Ruralno0 cti
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Rua  Idulefio                                                                                XIle  /   )       ,O  
O  School rneal warehouses                       r          |              >  Nse>iflA  >    6,ssila         2   ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Th rn
(3  Remodehng   of  basc   educotion  schools                  t             4.       (Lop                 nciIpSsoC 'o
-  5tote boundaries                                 t~~           ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   7' 1 .f  /V9rXs  .S   OCf
,V-intdr a do Coioqusbilsta  Fed
*  Rural education nuclei ~ ~  ~       ~      Sebra                    Sntaci
O   School meal warehouses                            (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LYDR                          IAW   11h 1, 0r1
I  "'-    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v~"OvA 
uu  I.       40                                                 Io,omooeonoi tio,,odoooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



