Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE C OPDY
RepGrt No. 2815b-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF A
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
April 28, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Offtice
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoiizstion.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _    _ _  - J



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January, 1980)
Currency Unit        = Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$ 1                = Cr$ 42.33
Cr$ 1                = US$ 0.0235
Cr$ million          = US$ 23,530
MEASURES
1 square meter (m )  = 10.76 sq. ft.
1 kilometer (kIn)     = 0.62 miles
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Academic Year
March - November



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
(Fourth Education Project)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA                                                                i
I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                   1
II.  OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR                                          2
Structure and Administration                                              2
Planning, Evaluation and Supervision                                      3
Basic Education (Grades 1-8)                                              4
Secondary Education (Grades 9-11/12)                                      4
Higher Education                                                          5
Teacher Education                                                         5
Teaching/Learning Materials                                               6
Non-formal Education and Vocational Training                              7
Education Finance                                                         7
Government Sector Policy and Strategy                                     9
Bank Lending Strategy                                                     9
III.  BASIC EDUCATION IN RURAL NORTHEAST BRAZIL                                 11
Problems and Needs                                                       11
A Strategy for Development af Rural Basic Education                      13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                             14
Objectives and Content                                                  14
Elements of the Project                                                 17
(a) Physical Facilities                                               17
(b) Curriculum Development and Teaching/Learning Materials            20
(c) Training of Teachers, Supervisors and Administrators              21
(d) School Meal Programs                                              23
(e) Strengthening of Municipal Education Administration               23
(f) Studies                                                           24
V.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT                25
Cost of the Project                                                     25
Financing Plan                                                          26
Project Administration and Implementation                               28
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision                                  33
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                      34
Benefits                                                                34
Risks                                                                   35
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                  36
ANNEX 1 - Supporting Tables and Charts
Tables
T-1 Public Education Expenditures by Level of
Administration 1960, 1970 and 1974-76
T-2 Comparative Education Indicators
T-3 Gross Participation Rate and Total-Enrollment
(Grades 1-8), by Region, 1955 and 1975
T-4 Northeast: School Age Population 7-14 years
and Net Participation Rates, 1975
T-5 School Age Population, 7-14 years, Enrollment
Grades 1-8 and Representation Indices, by
States, 1974
T-6 Northeast: Rural Pyramid Ratios (Grades 1-8), 1974
T-7 Northeast: Repetition, Promotion and Drop-out Rates,
Grades 1-4, Rural, 1974
T-8 Summary of Project Components by States



Tables
T-9   Summary Total Project Costs
T-10 Implementation Schedule
T-11 Disbursement Schedule
Charts
C-1    Structure of the Education System, 1979
C-2    Structure of the Ministry of Education and
Culture, 1979
C-3    Public Education Financing, 1978
C-4    Proposed Composition and Functions of the
Organizational Structure for Project
Implementation
ANNEX 2   Criteria for Locating Project Schools/Centers
ANNEX 3   Procedures for Disbursements Against
Statements of Expenditure.
ANNEX 4   Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
MAP
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
that visited Brazil in April-May 1979, and in October-November
1979. The mission consisted of Y. Tencalla (Mission Leader),
R. Corradine, A. Stocker (IBRD); and R. Carneiro and N. Fisher
(Consultants).



I



GLOSSARY
AEMEA        - Agencias Escolares de Material        - School Agency for Teaching-
de Ensino Aprendizagem                 Learning Materials
CEBRACE      - Centro Brasileiro de Construcoes    - Brasilian Center for School
e Equipamentos Escolares               Construction and Equipment
CERU         - Centro de Educa,io Rural              - Rural Education Center
CFE          - Conselho Federal de Educaca'o         - Federal Council of Education
CHEA         - Centro de Material de Ensino e        - Center for Teaching-Learning
Aprendizagem                           Materials
CNAE         - Campanha Nacional de AlimentaFpo    - National School Meal Program
Escolar
CRHJP        - Centro de Recursos Humanos            - Joao Pinheiro Center for
Joao Pinheiro                          Human Resources
DERE         - Delegacia Regional de Educagao        - Regional Delegation of Education
EMATER       - Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica        - Teclnical Assistance and Rural
e Extenfao Rural                       Extension Agency
FE           - Fundo Especial                        - Special Fund
FENAME       - Fundapao Nacional de Material         - National Foundation for School
Escolar                                Materials
FGV          - FundaFgo Getulio Vargas               - Getulio Vargas Foundation
FNDE         - Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento   - National Education Development
da Educaca"o                           Fund
FUNDACENTRO  - FundaFao Nacional de Seguranca,       - National Foundation for Ocupational
Higiene e Medicina do Trabalho         Safety, Hygiene and Medicine
HAPRONT      - HabilitaFao de Professores            - Qualification Program of
nao Titulados                          Untrained Teachers
IPEA         - Instituto de Planejamento            - Institute for Economic and
Econ6mico e Social                     Social Planning
MEB          - Movimento de Educacao de Base         - Movement for Basic Education



MEC           - Ministerio da Educa,a'o e Cultura    - Ministry of Education and Culture
MOBRAL         - Movimento Brasileiro de               - Brazilian Movement for Literacy
AlfabetizaFao
NMEA          - Nucleos de Material de Ensino          - Teaching-Learning Material
Aprendizagem                            Nuclei
PROMUNICIPIO  - Projeto de Coordena?i`o                - Project for Coordination and
e Asistencia Tecnica ao                 Technical Assistance to the
Ensino Municipal                        Municipal Education System
OME           - Orgao Municipal de                     - Municipal Education Unit
Educa so
PIPMO         - Programa Intensivo de PreparaFao    - Intensive Program for Manpower
de Mao-de-Obra                          Training
SE            - Salario EducaFao                       - Education Salary Tax
SEC           - Secretaria de Educacao                 - State Secretariat of Education
(e Cultura)        &                    (and Culture)
SECOI         - Secretaria de Controle                 - Secretariat of Internal
Interno                                 Control
SENAC         - Servi,o Nacional de                    - National Service for Commercial
Aprendizagem Comercial                  Apprenticeship
SENAI         - Servi o Nacional de                    - National Service for Industrial
Apren izagem Industrial                 Apprenticeship
SENAR         - Servipo Nacional de FormaFa'o          - National Service for Rural
Profissional Rural                      Training
SEPLAN        - Secretaria de Planejamento             - Planning Secretariat
SEPS          - Secretaria de Primero e                - Secretariat of Primary and
Segundo Graus                           Secondary Education
SIER          - Sistema Integrado de Educacao          - Integrated Rural Education
Rural                                   System
SMEA          - Sistema de Material de                 - System for Teaching-Learning
Ensino Aprendizagem                     Materials



BRAZIL
BASIC DATA
BRAZIL             NORTHEAST-/
Area                                            8,511,965 km2    1,548,672 km2 (18.2%)
Population (1977 Projection)2/                113,208,500        33,642,000       (29.7%)
Rural                                            38.6%             54.2%
Density                                   13.3 inhab./kmn2  21.7 inhab./km2
Average estimated annual growth
1970-1977                                         2.8%              2.6%
GNP Per Capita  (1976)                             1,300 /              450-/
Public Expenditure on
Education as % of GNP (1976)                   2.8%              n.a.
Public Expenditure on
Education as % of Total
Public Expenditure:    (1978)                   n.a.            16.7%
Recurrent                                          n.a.            79.7%
Capital                                            n.a.            20.3%
1/ Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco,
Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe
2/ Source: Anuario Estat'stico do Brazil, 1976.
3/ Mission Estimate
4/ World Bank Atlas



- ii -
Enrollments (1975)                                Brazil       Northeast
Basic education, (million)            Total       19.5          5.4
(grades 1 to 8):                      Rural*      52.3
Percentage of age group:              Total   --87,-.7         77.4
(gross rate)                          Rural*   - _LL3         55.0
Secondary education,. (million)       Total*       1.9         0.5
(grades 9-11)                         :Rural*     0.02         0.004
Percentage of age group:              Total*    26.1           21.1
(gross rate)                          Rural*      0.°          0.4
Administrative Units
States                                        25              9
Municipalities                             3,951          1,375
- estimated



I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC FACTORS RELATED TO EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT
1.01      During the 1967-73 period the Brazilian economy achieved an annual
real growth rate of 11%, but since the beginning of 1974 the economy has been
dominated by the problems of adjustment due to the changed conditions of the
international economy. As a result, the growth momentum has faltered to an
average of about 7% per year in the 1974-78 period. Partial evidence suggests
that the events during the last two decades have on the whole benefitted the
majority of the population, but the income growth has been highly uneven and
has probably increased relative inequality. The different socio-political
systems which have evolved historically in Brazil have led to great variations
in the rate of economic growth in the different parts of the country. The
basic development objectives of the government which came to power in March
1979 are: (a) to continue to develop the country's vast natural resources and
its industrial capabilities, with particular emphasis on developing the
agricultural sector; and (b) to spread the benefits of growth more widely
among the population, notably by providing basic services to a growing share
of the population.
1.02      The population of 116.1 million in mid-1977 is estimated to continue
growing at 2.8% p.a. (as in the 1970-77 period), and is projected to reach 200
million by the year 2000. The present age distribution of population indicates
41.7% below the age of 14. Brazil is a rapidly urbanizing country (61% urban)
with substantial migration flows and a potentially economically active popula-
tion that is expanding at about 3% per year. This trend suggests that Brazil
will continue to face rapidly rising demands for employment, as well as heavy
demands for social services and urban infrastructure. The educational level
of the labor force in Brazil is low; in 1970, about 23% of the labor force
had 3 years of basic education and a further 21% had a maximum of five years.
Moreover, the access of low income groups to the modern sector is still very
limited. Illiteracy, which affects about 36% of the total labor force (19% in
the urban sector) is particularly high in the agricultural sector (57%), and
contributes to serious regional, social and economic imbalances. The inade-
quate nutritional status of the northeastern population, affects negatively
its productivity and educational attainment, particularly at the basic educa-
tion level. A recent survey on household expenditures conducted at national
level shows that in the northeast, about 30% of children under eighteen are
estimated to have been suffering from malnutrition of the second or third
degree (almost twice as high as in the southeast).
1.03      The educational attainment of the Brazilians has been an important
factor in determining income prospects in recent years. The low educational
achievements of the rural population are accompanied by a lack of technical
preparation, which restricts the optimal use of modern techniques, parti-
cularly in agricultural and livestock production. The need to increase the
productivity of Brazilian workers is considered by the government as an
essential element for further development of all sectors. Progress in achiev-
ing this objective is expected in the long term, thanks to the rapid expansion
of various training programs; nevertheless, the nature and sophistication
of the technology introduced for ongoing and future economic development



projects, requires that the training be based on an adequate level of general
education. The government's policy of broadening basic educational opportuni-
ties is a necessary first step toward income redistribution between and within
socio-economic groups. The government has recently been taking steps to
provide initially four years, and in the long term eight years, of basic
education to the relevant age group by expanding the existing coverage of the
education system to remote areas of the country.
II. OVERVIEW OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Structure and Administration
2.01      The structure of the Brazilian formal education system (Annex 1, C-1)
generally adopted by the states subsequent to the education reform law No. 5692
of 1971 comprises: (a) Basic education (1° Grau), consisting of eight years,
subdivided into two cycles (grades 1-4 and 5-8); (b) Secondary education (2
Grau), consisting of three or four years (grades 9-11/12), which aims at prepar-
ing students for entry into middle level occupations and/or higher education; (c)
Higher education (3° Grau), of varying duration; and (d) Post graduate education
(4 Grau), offering the equivalent of Masters and Doctorate degree studies.
The education system in Brazil is still in a stage of transition and the new
structure has not been implemented country-wide. Therefore, particularly
in some rural areas, the old structure (four years of primary followed by four
years of lower secondary education) still exists.
2.02      The administration of education is decentralized, with authority
distributed among all three goverment levels - federal, state and municipal.
Constitutional and legislative measures concerned with education assign policy-
making, planning and coordinating authority to the federal level. Although
the states are still effectively responsible for the administration of urban
basic and secondary education, the municipalities assume this responsibility
for rural basic education. The universities are administratively autonomous
institutions. Financial responsibilities are shared by the three government
levels. In this context, the Federal Council of Education (CFE) develops
overall policy and the Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) (Annex 1, C-2)
allocates federal resources to support the implementation of such policy.
Since responsibility for local education services is vested in the states and
municipalities, the federal authorities must rely on them to implement
federally-initiated policies and guidelines. To assist the states, MEC
maintains direct contact with the Secretariat of Education (SEC) of each state
largely through the provision of technical assistance. At all three levels,
the magnitude and complexity of educational development call for strengthening
of administrative services.
2.03      The development of an efficient education administration particularly
at the basic education level has been hampered by a lack of manpower and exper-
tise at municipal level. MEC has recognized that strengthening the municipali-
ties in this respect is pivotal to achieve its decentralization objectives and
accordingly in 1975 initiated the Project on Coordination and Technical Assist-
ance to Municipal Education (PROMUNICIPIO), through its Secretariat of Primary



and Secondary Education (SEPS), and with a special executing unit for providing
assistance to the municipalities. The main objectives of the program are to
assist municipalities to organize their education planning and school administ-
ration, and to provide financial assistance for human resources training for
municipal education staff. The initial outcome of this program is quite
encouraging and merits the assistance which the proposed project would afford.
Planning, Evaluation and Supervision
2.04      The planning unit within the Secretariat General of MEC (SEPLAN)
coordinates planning and programming of MEC's overall activities, particularly
in the areas of studies, technical assistance to the states, and allocation of
federal funding resources. Furthermore, this unit coordinates preparation of
the sectoral development plan of MEC and of the yearly operational programs and
budgets submitted by the other Secretariats of MEC. Systematic evaluation of
activites in the education sector is still weak. Certain states have, meanwhile,
taken initiatives in evaluation of some statewide programs (e.g., the evaluation
of teachers' in-service training programs in Bahia), with the assistance of
experienced institutions. Nevertheless, education planning and evaluation in
general are fields requiring greater attention and strengthening within MEC and
in the SEC of each state.
2.05      School supervision services give cause for concern.  Quantitatively,
in 1973 there were not more than 10,300 supervisors for basic and secondary
education for the whole of Brazil, a ratio of 1:105 teachers in a situation
where large numbers of basic education schools are of the one or two teacher
type and are widely dispersed throughout in rural areas. Inevitably the
schools most in need of supervision (one/two classroom schools staffed with
ill-trained and unqualified teachers, characteristic of the rural areas) tend
to receive at best infrequent visits by school supervisors, and these visits
are for the most part of a routine, administrative nature. Qualitatively,
most supervisors (72%) are primary school teachers with some supervisory
training; much of their time is devoted to purely administrative duties, and
their professional role, for the most part, takes the form of teacher meet-
ings, seminars and conferences. Ongoing contact with and support for the
teacher in the classroom are clearly lacking.
2.06      Supervision services in Brazil remain weak, mainly because neither the
Federal nor the State levels have a clear definition of the structure, staffing,
and functions appropriate to an effective supervision system. At State level
school supervision is generally the function of a specialized unit within the
SEC planning unit, although in some states it has been decentralized and
operates at the municipal level. There is an urgent need to improve supervision
services quantitatively and qualitatively. Some initial steps have been taken
to remedy the situation. Following the 1971 education reform, universities
introduced school supervision in their teacher training courses, and MEC has
designed a supervision model which is being tested in impoverished rural areas
in 11 states. The model links closely the functions of the school supervisor
with curriculum planning and teacher development; this first step to strengthen
school supervision services should be encouraged and, therefore, support for
such an endeavor is included as a component of the proposed project.



- 4-
Basic Education (Grades 1-8)
2.07      The 1971 Education Reform Law included as one of its principal objec-
tives the provision of free and compulsory education for all children between
the ages of 7 and 14. Some advance towards achieving this objective has been
made; between 1971 and 1975, gross enrollments in basic education throughout
Brazil increased by 14.6%, from 17,066,093 to 19,549,249, (49% were girls),
equivalent to 87.7% of the relevant age group. However, despite this encourag-
ing trend of an annual average enrollment growth rate of 3.4%, a considerable
gap remains between the government's enrollment target and the actual situation
due to inefficiencies in the system. For instance, in 1974, 16% of basic educa-
tion enrollments were overage students; drop-out rate between grades 1-4 was of
the order of 65.1%, the majority at the end of the first grade; and repetition
accounted for 12.8% of grades 1-4 enrollments, while it took an average of 11.2
years to graduate a basic education student.
2.08      The above mentioned situation deteriorates considerably in the nine
northeastern states. In the same period, gross enrollments in basic education
grew from 4,246,405 to 5,383,002 in these states (representing only 77.4% of
the 7-14 age group), while in rural areas it increased from 1,650,196 to
about 2,300,000 (equivalent to 55% of the relevant age group). Overage student
enrollments, drop-out between grades 1 and 2 and the repetition rate after grade
1 were a high 12.0%, 62.6% and 18.3% in rural northeast, while for all of Brazil,
the corresponding figures were 16.0%, 57.6% and 24.8% respectively. A partial
explanation for the causes of these inefficiencies may be found in the qualita-
tive aspects of basic education: unsuitable school premises (the majority of
the schools are in teachers' houses); high percentage of unqualified teachers
(22% at national level, 37.8% in the northeastern states and as high as 90%
in the rural areas); irrelevant curricula; and often a total lack of teaching/
learning materials. The specific educational needs of the northeastern states
in general and of the rural areas in particular will, therefore, constitute
the major focus of the project.
Secondary Education (Grades 9-11/12)
2.09      Enrollments in all types of secondary schools throughout Brazil
increased from 1,094,442, in 1971 to 2,009,455 in 1975, an annual increase of
14.7%; about 50% were overage students and girls constituted 53.6%. About 44%
of the 1975 enrollment at this level was in private schools. In the north-
eastern states, enrollments increased by 80% during the same period (reaching
about 447,800 students) and represented about 21.1% of the relevant age group
(15-17 years of age). In accordance with the 1971 and 1975 decrees of the
Federal Council of Education, the academic stream in general secondary schools
is being phased out in favor of either a terminal vocational curriculum
(teacher training, agriculture, industry and commerce) or a general curriculum
of prevocational or labor market oriented options in a so-called family of
skills (habilitacoes basicas), as a basis for further on-the-job training or
further studies.



-5-
Higher Education
2.10      Enrollments in higher education throughout Brazil increased from
561,397 in 1971 to 1,072,548 in 1975 (an increase of over 91%), and represented
15% of the 18-21 age group population of 7.2 million. In the northeast
states, enrollments increased by 97% during the same period reaching 144,084
students; this, however, represents only about 6.7% of the estimated relevant
age group of 2.1 million. About 60% of the enrollment was in technology and
science courses. The prerequisites for entrance to all higher education
institutions are satisfactory completion of secondary education and passing of
a highly competitive entrance examination ("vestibular") set by the respective
faculty or university. Efforts are now underway by MEC to establish a national
"vestibular" examination for admission to all faculties and universities.
Teacher Education
2.11      In 1975, there were close to 897,000 teachers engaged in basic educa-
tion (grades 1-8) in Brazil, out of which one-fifth were in rural areas. Of
this total about 22% were unqualified ("professores leigos" -- without profes-
sional training). Significantly only 116,610 (16%) of urban teachers were
untrained, while 89,700 (50%) of rural teachers fell within this category.
Moreover, about 90% of the unqualified teachers in rural areas and 60% in
urban areas had completed four grades or less of schooling--the former primary
education level. About 95% of the teachers were women. A rough analysis of
recent trends shows that expansion of basic education in rural areas is
increasingly being met by drawing on unqualified teachers. Characteristically,
teachers in the northeastern states have lower qualifications (about 58% are
untrained) than the national average.
2.12      Pre-service teacher education for the lower cycle of basic education
(grades 1 to 4) is offered at the secondary level. In accordance with the 1971
reform, the former specialized teacher training schools are being transformed
into diversified secondary schools where teacher education will now be offered
as one of the various technical options. These institutions are almost
exclusively located in urban areas and, therefore, teaching practice is
usually carried out only in urban schools. For the upper cycle of basic
education (grades 5 to 8) pre-service teacher education has been traditionally
the task of the universities. A qualified teacher for this level must have
completed the "licenciatura curta," a course of about 2,100 hours of studies
(2 to 3 years). Specialized teachers for specific areas (physical education,
industrial arts, etc.) receive their basic training in the corresponding
higher education institutions. Some faculties of education offer a one-year
program, through which qualified lower cycle teachers ("normalistas") can be
certified to teach grades 5 and 6 of basic education. Unfortunately, however,
this program results in the depletion of the best of the lower cycle teachers.
2.13      In service teacher education for the lower cycle of basic education
(grades 1-4), is normally provided by the SEC in each state. The MEC also offers
a teacher upgrading program called "LOGOS II," for upgrading and certifying of
unqualified teachers. The MEC also launched in 1976 a second program called



- 6 -
"HAPRONT" which, both in scope and methodology, seems to replicate the "LOGOS"
model. While the SEC courses cater almost exclusively for teachers within the
State system, those offered by MEC are attended predominantly by municipal
teachers. There are no systematic in-service training programs for upper cycle
(grades 5-8) teachers. The responsibility for upgrading of these teachers
remains with each SEC which often provides training programs through agreements
with local universities. The proposed project would assist in providing more
relevant teacher education, particularly for teachers in the rural areas of the
northeastern states.
2.14      Teachers for secondary education are trained in universities.  The
four-year course (licenciatura plena) consists of three years of general studies
followed by a year in a faculty of education. In view of the increasing demand
for technical subject teachers, some universities beginning in 1977 added a
teacher education track to each of the programs currently offered and a special
technical teacher education program within the faculties of education.
Teaching/Learning Materials
2.15      Teaching/learning materials are produced at national level by the
National Foundation for School Material (FENAME), a semi-autonomous federal
agency, and through the Teaching/Learning Materials System (SMEA), a MEC
sponsored program. FENAME produces, and distributes free to needy students,
textbooks and other learning materials for all educational levels. For basic
education, responsibility for textbook content is vested in the relevant
departments of MEC and all technical aspects of book production are assumed by
FENAME; the printing and distribution is carried out through co-editing with
private firms on a competitive bidding basis. States are free to select books
materials from those available, which are then supplied to the states at cost
price covering only FENAME's operating expenditures. Over 10 million books
for basic education were distributed in 1977 under this system, mainly to
urban schools. FENAME also publishes dictionaries, atlases, grammar books,
anthologies and encyclopedias for which it is solely responsible both for
content and quality. It further purchases by competitive bidding bulk supplies
of pencils, erasers, pens, rulers, blackboard and drawing aids which are sold
at competitive prices in 250 stationeries and bookstores nationwide. Articles
of this nature are included in student/teacher packages which the proposed
project will finance (para.. 4.09).
2.16      The SMEA project is intended in the long term to reach every State.
Its objectives are: (i) to establish mechanisms for research into and design of
educational teaching aids in consonance with changing curricula; (ii) procure-
ment and distribution of new teaching/learning aids; and (iii) related training
programs. Organizationally it operates at three inter-related levels; (i) at
state level, through Teaching/Learning Materials Centers (CMEA) located in the
capital cities; (ii) at delegation level, through Teaching/Learning Materials
Nuclei (NMEA); and (iii) at municipal level, through Teaching/Learning Materials
School Agencies (AEMEA). In some states this project has been linked to distance
teaching, especially radio and television programs.



- 7 -
Non Formal Education and Vocational Training
2.17      Responsibility for non-formal education is vested in MEC while skill
training comes within the purview of the Federal Ministry of Labor. Local or
regional training programs are also organized by the states and by private or
semi-private infL-itutions. The main institutions/programs directly administered
by MEC are: Brazilian Movement for Literacy (MOBRAL), which offers programs in
functional literacy, integrated adult education, community development and
cultural programs; Radio Minerva which transmits radio and television education-
al programs; Secretariat of Fundamental and Secondary Education (SEPS) which
offers accelerated primary education programs for adults. The Federal Ministry
of Labor coordinates and controls the training programs offered by the following
specialized agencies: SENAR (agricultural training); SENAI (industrial training);
SENAC (service sector training); PIPMO (industrial and service sector training);
and FUNDACENTRO (occupational safety and health training). Other agencies
include the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and the Federal Ministry of Health.
Finally the Basic Education Movement (MEB), a church sponsored institution
offers radio programs in the field of community development.
Education Finance
2.18      The multiplicity of earmarked taxes and revenue sharing funds has
given the public education financing system in Brazil a complex character.
The sparse information available on consolidated education finance data at
all administrative levels in many of the poorer states has impeded a detailed
analysis at municipal level. Briefly, education finance in Brazil is charac-
terized by: (a) the sharing of responsibilities for different levels of
education by different levels of government; (b) a relatively low share of GNP
spent on public education; (c) insufficient federal revenue transfers; and (d)
a variety of federal programs with different distribution keys which do not
necessarily favor the poorest areas. In 1976 the public sector spent about
2.8% of GNP on education, (compared to 1.7% in 1960), which is relatively low
compared to some other South American countries (Annex 1, T-1 and T-2); it is
estimated that the private sector spent 1.8% of GNP in 1974. The financial
efforts of the public and the private sectors together were, however, insuffi-
cient to extend free basic education to the relevant school age population as
proclaimed in the constitution. Of the total public education expenditures in
1976, the federal government accounted for 24%, the state governments for 59%
and the municipalities for 17%. Transfers from the federal government financed
about 9.1% of the state expenditures on education, and amounted to about 50%
of the education expenditures of the municipalities.
2.19      The federal government spends on the average about 5% of its budget on
education, 1/ with the Ministry of Education representing about 93% of the share
and other Ministries accounting for the remaining 7%. In recent years, the
distribution of federal government expenditures by level of education shows a
slight reduction for universities from 54% to 51% and an increase for primary
education from 10% to 14%. The states spent in 1970 2/ an average of 29% of
1/   Except for the federal government, there are no consolidated accounts
including the states and municipalities.
2/   Last year available as consolidated by IPEA/FGV.



- 8 -
their budgets on education, and their consolidated education expenditures
show the following distribution by level of education: primary 44%, secondary
30%, university 12%, and 14% on other education activities. The municipalities
spent in 1970 about 12.7% of their budgets on education; this share increased
to about 20% with the shifting of the responsibility for basic education to
municipalities (in accordance with the education law of 1971), while the
states' share dropped. Regional differences are considerable because many
poor states and municipalities do not have sizeable tax revenues; in effect,
they depend to a large extent on transfers (in certain cases 70-80% of their
total budget). The breakdown of total expenditures (federal, state and
municipal) in 1970 by level of education shows that about 41% was spent on
primary, 22% on secondary, 22% on university education, and 15% on general
programs.
2.20      The unit current costs for basic education in different states of
Brazil vary considerably, reflecting differences in cost of living and in
quality of education; the average unit cost is about US$61 in the northeast.
In 1978, state employed basic school teachers in the northeast received, as
an average, about US$100 per month 1/ (compared with rural average of US$20)
which was about 55% higher than the legal minimum salary of the region (US$64)
2/. Unit recurrent costs for basic education in the rural municipalities of
the northeast states were about US$19 in the same year, because of the low
teachers' salaries, the almost total absence of school building maintenance
and the lack of teaching/learning materials.
2.21      The main sources of public education funds are from the budget,
extra-budgetary sources (including earmarked lottery revenues), and external
credits and loans. At federal level, revenues come from the Federal Income Tax
and from the Tax on Industrialized Products. At state level, 20% of the total
state value added tax is earmarked for education. At municipal level revenues
come almost entirely from federal and state transfers, out of which at least
20% must be spent on education. Brazil has a long tradition of earmarking taxes
for education and the major transfer mechanisms (established in the late 1960's)
are the Participation Funds, the Educational Salary Tax (SE) and the Special
Fund (FE) (Annex 1, C-3). The Participation Funds have been established to
offset revenue losses of states and municipalities as a result of the fiscal
reform of 1966. One half of the funds are allocated to the states and the
other half to the municipalities, both according to a composite formula. The
funds for the Education Salary Tax are generated from a 2.5% payroll tax on
public and private enterprises and are earmarked for exclusive use in basic
education. Two thirds of the total collected tax remain in the states of
origin and one third is redistributed by the federal government through the
National Education Development Fund (FNDE). Before 1975, this payroll tax
used to be 1.4%, and the states share was 50%; the present structure, therefore,
penalizes the poorer states. The Special Fund can be used mainly for capital
investment at all levels of education. About 20% of federal transfers are
1/ Each state has its own teacher salary system.
2/ Estimates indicate that the cost of a calorie-adequate diet for a family
of five would cost at least one full Rio de Janeiro minimum wage (the
highest in Brazil) in most regions of the country.



- 9 -
earmarked for education and distributed through FNDE. The fiscal reform of
1966 concentrated tax revenues at the federal level, and thereby increased the
dependence of the states and municipalities on federal transfers. Overall
federal transfers have improved the redistribution of tax revenues to poor
regions of the country; but the volume of such transfers has grown less
rapidly than the tax revenues of the federal government. The federal govern-
ment presently receives about 70% of the tax revenues, out of which about
16% are transferred to states and municipalities.
Government Sector Policy and Strategy
2.22      The 1975-79 National Education Development Plan proposed major
human resource development programs and established enrollment targets and a
framework for the states to implement the 1971 Education Reform. The Plan
was overly ambitious in its timing, and underestimated the resource require-
ments of the various programs and of the poorer states to achieve the proposed
enrollment targets. Furthermore, the plan not only failed to provide suffi-
cient guidance to the states on how to meet the additional resources required
to achieve these objectives, but moreover, transferred responsibility for
financing rural basic education to municipalities whose resources are even
more limited. As a result, implementation of the education reform has been
limited to the more urbanized areas in the northeast and other poor states.
The MEC presently plans to focus its activities on redressing inequities in
educational opportunities, and its strategy is to initiate such action through
special education projects designed to meet the education and training needs
of rural communities and the urban poor.
2.23      The MEC is presently finalizing a new sector development plan
(1980-85), the main objectives of which have been released. They include
(a) a phased program of universal basic education in rural areas, thus aiming
at attacking a major priority area of the education sector in Brazil; (b) the
expansion of education and training opportunities (designed to achieve more
equitable income distribution and increase social participation and mobility)
to areas of poverty concentration in Brazilian cities; (c) cultural development,
as an essential part of the educational environment, with the aim of developing
national identity; (d) institution building at various levels to foster local
participation in the planning process; and (e) the improvement in allocation
and distribution of financial resources and the redressing of regional imbalances
in the provision of education opportunities. Aside from the importance accorded
to basic education, higher education will also be emphasized, as a means of
assimilating and disseminating scientific and cultural knowledge. In order to
meet the above-mentioned objectives, strengthening of the agencies operating
at federal, state and municipal levels and the participation of the communities
involved will be required, backed by an appropriate monitoring and evaluation
system.
Bank Lending Strategy
2.24      The Bank has made three loans for education and training in Brazil.
The first Bank education loan (Loan 755-BR, US$8.4 million, signed in June
1971) supported the expansion and improvement of 16 federal agricultural and
technical schools at secondary and post-secondary levels. This project was



- 10 -
completed on June 30, 1978; the relevant Project Performance Audit Report
(No. 2802) was circulated on January 9, 1980, under Ref. Sec M80-23.
The report noted that the project was "worthwhile and has been successfully
implemented although with considerable delays". Furthermore, graduates
from the project schools have generally found employment quite readily or
continued to further studies. The second Bank education loan (Loan 1076-BR,
US$23.5 million, signed in December 1974) is supporting the implementation of
the national education reform at basic and secondary levels in the more
populous zones of eight north and northeast states. A third Bank education
loan (Loan 1452-BR, US$32 million, signed in September 1977), is assisting the
Federal Ministry of Labor in strengthening the national vocational training
system and expanding its capacity to meet skilled manpower needs for the
economy. The implementation of these two ongoing projects is proceeding
satisfactorily and they should be completed without undue delays. In addi-
tion to these three loans in education, the Bank has financed education
and training components in six integrated rural development projects in the
northeast. These components include a wide spectrum of education/training
activities, ranging from basic formal education to adult training programs,
which are designed to serve the needs of the target population and help
achieve the broad educational and socio-economic objectives of the rural
development projects, within the same education development policy and
targets of the proposed project.
2.25      The Bank should continue the strategy adopted in its second
education project (Loan 1067-BR) to provide continued assistance to the
government, at both central and local levels, to support the goals of the
Education Reform in its qualitative and quantitative dimensions particularly
in respect of correcting regional educational imbalances. Bank lending should
assist the government in: (a) making a breakthrough in its program to provide
at least the first four years of basic education in rural areas, expanding
education and training opportunities to areas of poverty concentration in
Brazilian cities, and strengthening of selected secondary level and post-
secondary institutions; (b) resolving institutional and organizational diffi-
culties for proper implementation of the Education Reform; (c) supporting
teacher and management staff training and/or upgrading, curricula development,
and teaching materials production. Furthermore, the Bank should continue its
assistance in strengthening the vocational training system, particularly in
the agricultural and industrial fields, in order to reduce bottlenecks in the
expansion of the economy, due to lack of skilled and specialized personnel.
The target groups should be both the out-of-school and school-age population
with special regard for low-income rural and urban communities. The proposed
project represents a first effort by the Bank to assist the government in
expanding basic education opportunities to rural areas and to bring about
essential qualitative improvements, by upgrading the poorly trained rural
teaching force and ensuring satisfactory conditions of service, strengthening
the school supervisory network, reformulating the curriculum, making available
necessary teaching/ learning materials and reinforcing school meal programs.
It has been designed in consideration of the regional imbalances in basic
educational opportunities, the absorptive capacity of the states and munici-
palities, and their different stages of educational development.



- 11 -
III. BASIC EDUCATION IN RURAL NORTHEAST BRAZIL
Problems and Needs
3.01      The major problems confronting basic education in rural northeast
Brazil are limited access, low efficiency and poor quality. The gap between
the northeast and the rest of Brazil is great (paras 2.08 to 2.11). Within
the northeast, the urban areas are far ahead of the rural areas, particularly
concerning the quality of education offered. Furthermore, great disparities
exist also between the nine northeast states in terms of financial capability, 1/
availability of trained human resources and the priority accorded to education
in each state. Therefore, basic education planning in the northeast must
take into account the varied absorptive capacities of the states, which have
been reflected in the proposed project.
3.02      Access to Education.  The northeast has lagged behind all other
regions, even though the gross participation rate of the school-age population
7-14 years of age has increased from 34% in 1955 to 77% in 1975 (Annex 1,
T-3), and girls represented about 53% of total enrollments. The net rural
participation rate at the basic education level in the nine northeast states
in 1975 averaged 51.5%, ranging from 35.9% to 63.3% (Annex 1, T-4). In
1974, representation indices 2/ for the same school age population were the
lowest in the northeast for both total and rural enrollment (Annex 1, T-5).
Moreover, in most rural areas of the northeast states, basic education is
practically confined at most to the first four grades (many schools offer
only one or two grades), because of the lack of a proper school facilities
network and adequately trained teachers. Schooling opportunities for
grades 5 to 8 are located almost exclusively in urban areas 3/ (e.g., only
0.8% of the total rural pupils in basic education were enrolled in grades
5 to 8 in 1974).
3.03      Internal Efficiency and Quality.  The breakdown of basic education
enrollment by grades in rural areas of the northeast states shows an over-
concentration of pupils in the first grade (Annex 1, T-6). While this may
in large measure be attributed to the splitting of grade 1 into two school
years (literacy and follow-up, as commonly practised by rural teachers)
the problem is aggravated by extremely high repetition rates. The dropout,
repetition and promotion rates in grade 1 in 1974, averaged 63%, 18% and
1/   In 1975, the estimated GNP per capita ranged from a low of US$197 in
Piaui to a high of US$461 in Pernambuco.
2/   The representation index is the percentage of national school enroll-
ment in grades 1-8 in any given state divided by the percentage of
national school age population 7-14 years old in that state.
3/   In Brazil, the capitals of the municipality and of the district (distrito),
a sub-unit of the municipality, are considered as urban for statistical
purposes. Official data on basic education enrollment are, therefore,
slightly misleading because some enrollment given as urban, should really
be considered as rural.



- 12 -
19% respectively in the rural northeast (Annex 1, T-7). This low efficiency
is better shown by compounding the three rates for a single cohort of students
reaching the fifth grade; retention rates in 1972 (for students having entered
the first grade in 1968) were as low as 11% (Piaui) with the highest being 26%
(Pernambuco). A sample analysis of 16 municipalities in Sergipe showed that
out of 100 rural pupils who entered grade 1 in 1972, only three were still in
the system at grade 4 in 1975. The highest dropout rates occur between grades
1 and 2 (mainly because parents withdraw students from school, being dissatis-
fied with the education offered, and because many children have already
reached the productive age), and after grade 4 (partially due to schools not
offering all four grades and inadequate schooling opportunities for grades 5
to 8).
3.04       A great number of basic education schools in the rural northeast
consist of a room in a teacher's house. Moreover, roughly 90% of the grades
1-4 rural teachers lack exposure to any form of professional training and
about 70% have themselves completed a maximum of four grades of basic educa-
tion. In addition to these shortcomings, the following factors impose further
constraints to effective teaching/learning: (i) short contact hours (average
2-1/2 to 3 hours per day) and low teaching loads; (ii) lack of adequate
teaching/learning materials; (iii) multigrade classroom organization in the
absence of proper teacher training; (iv) absence of any terms and conditions
of service of teachers and unrealistically low salaries; (v) imposition of an
"alien", urban originated curriculum on rural schools, which bears little
relation to the child's rural environment; (vi) ineffectiveness of the present
school and teacher supervision system; and (vii) absence of any school guidance
system. Various socio-cultural features put further strain on the general
efficiency of the education system in the rural northeast: parents giving
higher value to field labor, household works and commercial activities instead
of the education of their children, and wide-spread malnutrition and under-
nourishment among pre-school and school age children, which adversely affects
the learning process.
3.05       Rural Teachers Service.  Although pre-service teacher training
institutions in the northeast graduate over 20,000 certified teachers
annually, a high proportion do not enter the teaching profession but instead
proceed to higher education.  The great majority of those joining the teach-
ing service work in urban (state or private) schools. The very few who join
the rural teachers service and become employees of the rural municipalities
in which they work (almost all rural teachers are women) are faced with the
absence of any contract or proper conditions of service, poor housing, and
lack of professional support and teaching aids. The fact that rural teachers
are appointed by the municipal mayor (prefeito) on a personal basis without
any formal contractual arrangements and often at extremely low salaries 1/
contributes to the issues that undermine the establishment of a proper rural
teachers service. The MEC agrees with the Bank that the unsatisfactory
conditions of service of teachers in rural areas is a major issue. MEC
1/   In 1978, monthly salaries of rural municipal teachers ranged approxi-
mately from Cr$200 to Cr$550 (US$11 to 30).



- 13 -
therefore has begun to complement salaries of full-time rural teachers in the
northeast, to bring them gradually up to the level of the regional minimum
salary. Federal funds have been committed for 1980 for this purpose, and
agreements have been signed with the northeast states (except Pernambuco).
This assistance will be provided on a decreasing scale in accordance with the
financial capacity of the states and municipalities. Further analysis of the
resources necessary to finance local basic services is continuing by the
Federal Government and the Bank. The proposed project will also tackle the
issue of establishing a proper teacher's charter (estatuto do magisterio) in
project municipalities (para 4.14).
A Strategy for Development of Basic Education
3.06      A major constraint to the development of education in the north-
eastern rural municipalities has been their limited financial resources
exacerbated by the need to allocate much of their exiguous resources to
correct deficiencies in other social sectors such as housing, water supply,
health and sanitation, and road infrastructure. The expansion required to
improve access to basic education will generate additional recurrent costs
which municipal revenues are in most cases incapable of absorbing. Munici-
palities have historically been dependent on financial transfers from federal
and state resources, even to attain their present modest level of development
in education. Thus, any substantial further advance of education in rural
areas will call for increased transfers of federal and, to a lesser extent,
state financial resources to municipalities.
3.07      Despite the above mentioned financial constraints of  munici-
palities some measures can be taken to reduce unit costs and improve overall
efficiency of the system without increasing recurrent costs. For instance,
replacement of inefficient schools conducted in teachers' houses with proper
facilities, would allow the increasing of class sizes beyond that normally
possible in teachers' houses and bring about more economic teacher student
ratios. Also, introducing more appropriate school construction standards by
using local materials and construction techniques and stimulating community
participation, could result in significant savings. MEC and the northeastern
States are aware of these possibilities and have in collaboration elaborated a
general basic education development policy, determined priority development
needs in rural basic education, and formulated guidelines which synthesize the
types of programs required to bring about improvements. The proposed project:
will assist the federal government and the northeastern states in starting
the implementation of the development program intended: (a) to expand educa-
tional opportunities to equalize access to grades 1-4 of basic education in
selected municipalities in consideration of their technical and financial
constraints to assume an increased burden in financing recurrent costs; (b) to
improve the internal efficiency of the basic education system; (c) to improve
the quality of basic education in rural areas by providing better teaching/
learning conditions; and (d) to strengthen the institutional and administra-
tive capacity at state and municipal levels.



- 14 -
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Content
4.01      The above overall strategy could be accomplished only in the long
term and implementation should therefore be phased. Thus the proposed
project would initiate action only in selected municipalities of the nine
project states (para. 4.03) where problems are most acute, and it would
include the principal elements of the basic education development strategy
mentioned above (para. 3.07). The project was, therefore, appraised within
this general context and modifications introduced into the content to reflect
the abovementioned strategy and the technical and financial constraints at
both state and municipality levels. Furthermore, the actions to be introduced
under the proposed project should provide the initial framework within which
future follow-up programs, to be mainly designed by the participating states,
together with NEC, and assisted by the Bank, could reinforce and complement
these initial inputs in the same states while, at the same time, making it
possible to effectively expand the process to other geographical areas of
the country.
4.02      More specifically, the proposed project is designed to achieve
the following main objectives:
(a) improved access to basic education for the rural population by
providing additional school facilities and introducing and/or
strengthening "nuclearization" 1/ wherever possible to improve
access and utilization of new and existing school facilities;
(b) improved efficiency by reducing dropout and repetition through:
(i) improving existing school facilities (remodelling schools in
poor conditions and replacement of classrooms in teachers' houses by
new schools); (ii) adjusting the school calendar to adapt it to the
local agricultural and marketing cycles; and (iii) strengthening the
school meal program by improving the supply and distribution system,
linking it with health, nutrition and family education for the
communities;
(c) improved quality of education by: (i) curriculum revision;
(ii in-service training and up-grading of unqualified teachers,
supervisors and administrators; (iii) improving instruction through
provision of textbooks, guides, and teaching/learning materials;
(iv) strengthening school supervision and professional guidance
to the teachers; (v) increasing the number of teacher contact
hours; and (vi) improving conditions of service of rural teachers;
and
1/   School location and administration system linking a certain number
of satellite schools (grades 1-4) to a central school (grades 1-8).
This system is already applied by four states, with different stages
of implementation.



- 15 -
(d) sustained institution building by: (i) assisting the creation
of project management units at federal and state levels within
the existing structure; (ii) strengthening municipal education
administration, which has commenced under existing MEC program;
(iii) developing evaluation mechanisms relevant to the monitoring
of basic education; and (iv) providing adequate technical assistance
services.
4.03      The project municipalities in each participating state have been
selected according to the following criteria: (i) municipalities where
problems of access, efficiency and quality are the most acute; (ii) munici-
palities with a rural population representing more than 40% of the total
municipal population and included in priority state education development
plans; and (iii) municipalities not being assisted in any of the major project
elements by the on-going integrated rural development projects. This means
that the proposed project has excluded POLONORDESTE programs having an educa-
tion component but not municipalities assisted by SEPS/PROMUNICIPIO. Thus,
project composition and coverage will differ in each project state, to provide
greater equity in distribution of educational resources and address priority
needs. The number of municipalities included in the project is as follows:
Project Municipalities
Total No. of                            Percentage
Project States            Municipalities            Number          of total
Alagoas                         94                    13                14
Bahia                          336                    36                11
Ceara                          141                    53                38
Maranhao                       130                    22                17
Paraiba                        171                    31                18
Pernambuco                     164                    29                18
Piaui                          114                    35                31
Rio Grande do Norte            150                    14                 9
Sergipe                         74                    15                20
TOTAL                   1,374                   248               18
Overall about 800,000 school children (7-14 years), 22,500 teachers and super-
visors and 1,000 education staff would benefit from the proposed project.
4.04      The content of the proposed project comprises (Annex 1, T-8 provides
further details):
(a) Physical Facilities: construction, furnishing and equipping of:



- 16 -
Physical Facilities                     Student Places
Type of                     New and        Remodelling           New and
Institutions    Total   Replacement   and Extension  Total  Extension   Remodelling
(a) Basic
Education
Schools,
Grades 1-4
(Class-
rooms)       1,998     1,574            424         73,915   57,925       15,990
(b) Basic
Education
Schools,
Grades 1-8/5-8
(Class-
rooms)          35        35                         1,225    1,225
(c) Rural Education
Centers/Nuclei
(Classrooms
only)       82         82                         2,870    2,870
Sub-
total     2,115      1,691            424         78,010   62,020       15,990
(d) Rural
Education
Centers         32        32                         3,205    3,205
(e) Municipal
Education
Units
(offices)       13        13
(f) School
Meal
(ware-
houses)          9          9
(b) Curriculum Development and Teaching/Learning Materials: revision
of curricula and syllabi for rural basic education (grades 1-8);
evaluation, production, and distribution of about 4.8 million
textbooks, workbooks, and teachers guides and distribution of
about two million teaching/learning materials packages to students
and teachers for basic education level; and strengthening of the
school and teacher supervision system at state and delegation
levels.



- 17 -
(c) Training of Teachers, Supervisors and Administrators: upgrading of
about 13,000 unqualified basic education teachers and in-service
training of about 9,300 teachers in project municipalities;
upgrading and refresher courses for about 2,000 school supervisors
in project municipalities, and training courses for about 1,000
administrative and technical personnel at municipal and state
levels.
(d) School Meal Program: strengthening of school meal storage and
distribution network, and training of ancillary personnel in the 35
project municipalities of the state of Piaui to serve about 150,000
students, and provision of school meals to about 5,000 students in
project municipalities of the state of Pernambuco.
(e) Strengthening of Municipal Education Administration: establish-
ment and/or strengthening of municipal education units (OMEs) in
233 project municipalities in accordance with the ongoing SEPS/
PROMUNICIPIO 1/ program, and strengthening of the planning and
administrative capacity of SECs for the execution of the project.
(f) Studies: (a) evaluation study of the basic education curriculum
implemented in the states of Ceara and Pernambuco; (b) a study
on the effectiveness of the in-service and upgrading teacher/
training programs to be implemented, and on the teaching/learning
materials to be produced, under the project, in the state of
Pernambuco; (c) a study on the impact of overage students on
learning effectiveness, in the state of Alagoas; and (d) execu-
tion of the school mapping studies in all project municipalities,
except those in the state of Bahia. The project would finance
related consultancy and technical assistance services, almost
exclusively local, for carrying out these studies.
Elements of the Project
(a) Physical Facilities
4.05      Basic Education Schools (Grades 1-4):  This project element will
consist of the construction, furnishing and equipping of a total of 1,691 new
classrooms for about 62,020 student places, benefitting about 124,040 students
(two-shifts) and remodelling, furnishing and equipping of existing classrooms
for about 16,000 student places, benefitting about 32,000 students (two-shifts).
Part of the new student places will be substitutes for those in schools
presently functioning in teachers' houses which are unsuitable for school
purposes. The new schools will have generally two classrooms each, accom-
modating 35 to 40 students, an office for the teacher, a small canteen,
multipurpose area, and washrooms; they will operate on a two-shift basis.
1/   An ongoing MEC program to assist municipalities in developing their
capacity in terms of education planning and school administration for
basic level education.



- 18 -
Some of the schools to be built under the project will function as a Central
School/Rural Education Center (in the State of Ceara) providing pedagogical
assistance and administrative support to teachers in surrounding satellite
schools (grades 1-4), as a first step of a nuclearization system under implemen-
tation. These Rural Education Centers will assist a minimum of four satellite
schools and, in addition, offer support for adult activities for the surrounding
communities. Each Center will consist of two classrooms for 35 to 40 student
places each, an office for a coordinator of the Center, a deposit for textbooks
and teaching/learning materials to be distributed to the satellite schools, a
multipurpose area for adult activities, a canteen/kitchen area, and sanitary
facilities. The Centers will be directly supervised by the Regional Delegation
of Education (DERE) of the SEC.
4.06       In general, the schools will have multigrade classes and, there-
fore, the teachers as part of the broader upgrading or in-service training
program offered through the project will also receive training in multi-
grade teaching techniques. The number of new and extended classrooms has
been determined on the basis of each state's policy to improve participation
rates of the relevant age group in rural areas and the local capacity to
meet the incremental recurrent expenditures likely to be generated. The
location of new schools and the Centers will be based on a simple school
mapping exercise of the project municipalities; the satisfactory completion
of school mapping will be a condition of disbursement for construction of
schools for each municipality. The criteria for determining the location of
schools (Annex 2) has been agreed upon with the Borrower during appraisal
and negotiations and any changes will be subject to Bank approval. The
designs of the basic education schools will follow those used by PROMUNICIPIO
but suitably modified and adapted to the needs of each location; the proto-
type architectural plans will be submitted to the Bank for prior approval.
Remodelling costs of schools in project municipalities of four states (Alagoas,
Ceara, Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Norte), are not expected to exceed 50% of
the cost of replacing the schools; furniture and canteen equipment for these
schools are estimated at 13% of the total remodelling costs. A proper inventory
of the schools to be remodelled as well as an evaluation of the status of the
buildings and cost estimates will be undertaken as part of the school mapping
exercise. The school remodelling program will be phased over a three year
period.
4.07       Basic Education Schools (Grades 1-8/5-8):  The proposed project
will assist three states (Pernambuco, Alagoas and Rio Grande do Norte) to
expand a school nuclearization system, as one of the project objectives, by
the creation of centralized schools (grades 1-8 or 5-8) to enable: (a) graduates
from satellite schools (grades 1-4) to continue their education to grade 8;
and (b) improve the quality of education in satellite schools by providing
supervisory/guidance services, basic curriculum design and development, and
in-service teacher training courses in the central schools. The centralized
facilities will be established at nodal points where enrollment and access
criteria can be readily met. The proposals are briefly described below:



- 19 -
(i) Pernambuco: The Pernambuco Integrated Rural Education System
(SIER) is a school nuclearization system with a Rural Education Center (CERu)
as the central school. Linked to each CERu are four basic schools (grades 1-8
or 5-8), 1/ which in turn are linked with up to ten basic schools (grades
1-4). Both the CERu and complete basic school offer the full eight grades
of basic education, but the latter functions principally as a teaching insti-
tution sharing with the CERu some limited responsibility for the supervision
of the basic schools. The CERu will be equipped and staffed to provide sub-
stantial advisory and supervisory assistance to the basic education schools of
both types within the catchment area, as well as to undertake curriculum re-
search and development, teaching/learning materials production and teaching
methodology studies. The proposed project will include seven municipalities
where CERus have already been established and whose catchment areas will have
sufficient 4th grade graduates to justify the construction of basic schools
(grades 1-8/5-8). Therefore, the project will provide for the construction,
furnishing, and equipping of seven full basic schools, providing a total of
1,960 new student places on a two-shift basis (ultimately 2,940 places on a
three-shift basis, at which time about two-thirds of enrollment will be in the
four upper grades). Each school will have four classrooms, one practical arts
room, a library, multipurpose area, administration unit, canteen/kitchen area,
and sanitary facilities. The practical arts room will be equipped to provide
introductory courses in agriculture, home management, and planning and admin-
istration of small enterprises, which will constitute between 20-25% of the
timetable loading in grades 5-8. Teaching groups will be 35 for the academic
subjects with half classes for practical subjects. Teachers appointed to
these schools will hold at least a secondary school level professional
qualification and either the short course graduate diploma (licenciatura
curta) or the certificate of secondary education (bachiller). They shall
undergo a four month upgrading program to familiarize them with the new
curriculum content and related teaching methodology. The exact location of
the schools will be determined on completion of a school mapping exercise in
the seven municipalities included in the proposed project. Student/teacher
support materials will also be provided under the project for these schools.
(ii) Alagoas: The school nuclearization system in the state of Alagoas
is designed to operate through the establishment, in the more densely populated
rural areas, of a number of Rural Education Nuclei (NURE). Within the project
target municipalities, three have been identified as fulfilling enrollment and
access conditions necessary for their effective operation. This component
will consist of the construction, furnishing and equipping of three NUREs
providing initially a total of 840 new student places on a two-shift basis
(eventually 1,260 places on a three-shift basis) together with 120 residential
places for teacher training courses. Each NURE will include four classrooms,
a practical arts room, a library, multipurpose area, school meal delivery
point and an administration area for the formal teaching program; the teacher
training wing will comprise an additional classroom/conference room and basic
residential facilities for 40 teachers-in-training, other requirements being
met on a joint-use basis from accommodations provided in the main school.
With respect to the formal education component, pending the build-up of
1/   called intermediate schools.



- 20 -
grades 5-8 enrollments, spare capacity will be utilized for the provision of
Grades 1-4 courses, which will be phased out over time. The curriculum,
timetable arrangements, the qualification of teachers to be appointed to these
schools, and their training programs, will be as described above for Pernambuco.
The exact location of the NUREs will be determined following the completion of
a school mapping exercise in the three involved municipalities.
(iii) Rio Grande do Norte: The school nuclearization system in the state
of Rio Grande do Norte will operate through the establishment of Community
Education Centers in strategically located districts within municipalities
considered as education development poles. The centers will provide accom-
modation for students pursuing their studies from grades 5 to 8 and drawn from
basic schools (grades 1-4) within an appropriate catchment area. Each center
will also provide facilities for adult education and training activities.
This component will consist of the construction, furnishing and equipping of
three Community Education Centers providing a total of 280 new student places
on a two-shift basis for grades 5-8 and 35 places for adult activities. Each
center will include four classrooms, one practical arts room, administration
unit, kitchen and canteen area, a library and sanitary facilities. Pending
the build-up of grades 5-8 enrollments, spare capacity will be utilized for
the provision of grades 1-4 courses, to be phased out over time. The curri-
culum, time-table arrangements, the qualification of teachers to be appointed
to the centers and their training program will be as described above for
Pernambuco. The SEC will receive assistance by the state EMATER for planning
and executing the adult training activities. The exact location of the
centers will be determined upon completion of a school mapping exercise in
the municipalities where the centers will be built.
4.08      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (i) no construction and remodelling work will start before (a) satis-
factory evidence is furnished to the PMU for delivery to the Bank that suit-
able sites for the schools and centers had been legally acquired by the
respective municipalities and states, (b) site plans for the proposed schools
and centers, including the justification for the location in accordance with
the criteria mentioned in Annex 2, had been approved by CEBRACE and sent to
the Bank through the PMU together with the school mapping of each municipal-
ity, (c) approval by CEBRACE of the establishment of a proper inventory of the
works to be executed including an estimate of the costs; and (ii) all project
schools will be used on a shift basis to offer 720 hours of instruction per
shift.
(b) Curriculum Development and Teaching/Learning Materials
4.09      The proposed project will assist the project states in the design
and development of basic education curriculum and syllabi (grades 1-8) for
the project schools by financing the costs of: (i) about 860 man-months of
local consultancies and technical assistance services for curriculum design
and development and preparation of syllabi; (ii) fees for about 240 man-months
of subject specialists for the preparation of textbooks and related teachers'
guides; (iii) printing and/or purchasing of a total of about 4.8 million
textbooks and teachers' guides; (iv) purchasing about 2 million teaching/
learning materials packages for basic education students and teachers; and
(v) 164 man-months of supervision to strengthen the state central and sub-
regional supervisory network in the states of Alagoas, Bahia and Paraiba.



- 21 -
4.10      The Curriculum Unit of each SEC will be responsible for: (i) design
and development of curriculum and syllabi; (ii) coordinating the activities
and inputs of the consultants, technical experts and subject specialists;
(iii) monitoring the testing and evaluation of school resources inputs in
selected schools with the assistance of technical experts; and (iv) submitting
through the SEC the finalized curriculum for approval to the State Education
Council (CEE). Brazilian universities or institutions experienced in curricu-
lum development and evaluation might be called upon for assistance, whereas
experienced teachers and school supervisors will collaborate in the preparation
of syllabi. Subject material for each grade will be normally tested for a
full academic year in a number of selected schools, before final textbooks and
guides are printed and distributed to all schools in the project municipalities.
FENAME will be responsible for the low cost production and distribution of
teaching/learning materials (para. 2.15), as follows: (i) making available the
graphic expertise needed for the prototype and final textbooks and teachers'
guides production; (ii) assisting the project states in printing the prototype
textbooks and guides to be tested; (iii) assisting the project states in
printing the final textbooks and guides; and (iv) producing the teaching/
learning materials to be provided to project schools, and ensuring their
proper distribution. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
government that: (i) prototypes of all textbooks and teachers' guides to be
printed under the proposed project will be tested at least for a full academic
year and evaluated and revised prior to full-scale printing and distribution
to the project schools; and (ii) prior to testing and implementing the modified
curriculum and the new printed materials in the selected project schools,
teachers will undergo appropriate in-service training.
(c) Training of Teachers, Supervisors and Administrators
4.11      The proposed project will assist the project states in providing:
upgrading courses for unqualified basic education teachers for the project
municipalities, refresher courses for basic education teachers in project
municipalities, and upgrading and refresher courses for school supervisors
and administrators related to the project. In particular, the proposed
project will finance the cost of: (a) salaries and transportation for course
instructors, administrators and supporting staff; (b) subsistence allowances
and transportation for course participants and relevant staff of the SECs;
and (c) teaching and consumable materials required for the courses.
4.12      Up-grading courses for unqualified teachers (leigos) will generally
include: pedagogics, multigrade teaching, guidance and counselling, community
and parental involvement, and specific training for application of the reformed
curriculum. The courses will be designed by each SEC's training unit with
the assistance of specialists financed under the project and course instructors
will be drawn from experienced teachers and supervisors. The refresher courses
will focus on the use of new textbooks, teaching materials, and teachers'
guides related to the application of the modified curriculum. The existing
training centres belonging to the states will provide logistic support and
qualified staff for the courses. Upgrading and in-service training programs
for supervisors and school administrators will be part of the efforts of each
SEC to create and/or strengthen the education administrative and supervisory



- 22 -
infrastructure at the state, delegation, and municipal levels. Training
programs will focus on supervisory techniques, development of teaching/learning
materials, teaching methods, education administration and planning, and
cooperativism. SEC's staff and specialized personnel will conduct the courses.
Criteria for selecting supervisors for upgrading will vary slightly in the
participating states; nevertheless, a common feature will be to require
educational achievement of at least the end of secondary education and having
a reasonable period of teaching and supervisory experience. The Joao Pinheiro
Center for Human Resources (CRHJP), a dependent agency of MEC, would be in
charge of overall supervision and monitoring of these training programs.
4.13      The training of teachers for the grades 5-8 courses in complete
basic schools (Pernambuco) and NUREs (Alagoas) (para. 4.07) will reflect the
relatively high professional and academic qualifications already held by
participants. The courses, generally of 4 months duration, will focus on the
content of the modified curricula and on teaching method. The small number of
teachers involved ( in Pernainbuco, approximately 20 per year for 5 years; in
Alagoas, 9 per year for 4 years), make it feasible for training programs to be
handled directly by the relevant divisions of the SEC with the assistance of
the CERu (Pernambuco) and EMATER (Alagoas) in respect of the skill training
components of the curriculum. Each of these entities will be suitably rein-
forced by the provision of additional temporary staff as required to assist
with the training courses, the costs of which (including salaries, subsistence
allowances, transportation and consumable materials) will be financed under
the project. As with other teacher training courses SEC will assume responsi-
bility for the planning and execution of the programs, in collaboration with,
and under the general supervision of CRHJP.
4.14      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that: (a) in selecting candidates for the teacher upgrading/training programs,
priority will be given to those already employed in project municipalities;
(b) candidates successfully completing the upgrading/ training courses will
be appointed for a minimum of two years and in accordance with the conditions
of service to be established by all participating municipalities (para. 3.05);
(c) teachers in project schools will (i) possess a minimum educational level
corresponding to the fourth grade of basic education; (ii) be trained or
receive training in multigrade teaching techniques; (iii) be trained to
effectively implement the reformed curriculum, before its application; and
(iv) teach a minimum of four periods per day and per shift during the school
year as prescribed by the Education Law; (d) supervisors eligible for attending
the upgrading and refresher courses will have a minimum educational level
corresponding at least to the end of secondary education and substantial
teaching/supervisory experience; (e) within three years from the date of the
Loan Agreement, the head of each participating municipalities (prefeito) will
present to the respective legislative body (Camara Municipal) a bill to estab-
lish a teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magisterio) to define teachers' rights
and duties, privilegs and obligations; and (f) full-time rural municipal
teachers would be remunerated in line with the minimum salary (salario minimo)
on a per shift basis of 20 teaching hours per week.



- 23 -
(d) School Meal Programs
4.15      The proposed project will assist:  (a) the SEC of the state of
Piaui in strengthening the school meal program in 35 project municipalities
by financing the costs of: (i) construction and equipping of nine subre-
gional warehouses; (ii) acquisition of 6 vehicles to improve the distribu-
tion system between the warehouses and the schools; and (iii) providing
kitchen and canteen equipment to about 360 schools; (b) the State of Pernambuco
in developing a new pilot experiment consisting of purchasing the food from
local farmers through an independent agricultural cooperative which will
ensure the regular distribution of school meals to rural schools, by financing
the costs for a duration of four years of: (i) purchasing the food and
(ii) distributing the school meals to rural schools. This experiment, which
is already functioning in suburban areas of Recife, will be extended to about
50X of the rural schools existing in project municipalities and presently not
covered by the regular National School Meal Program (CNAE), a federal agency
depending on MEC implementing the school meal program at national level.
4.16      In the target areas, the programs are designed to ensure regular
coverage of the rural schools with daily meals, benefitting about 150,000
students in Piaui and 5,000 in Pernambuco. Studies in some regions of Brazil
have demonstrated the positive impact of the provision of school meals on
the regular attendance and achievements of students at the basic level of
education. Organizational problems at local level have, nonetheless, reduced
the efficacy of the present national program implemented by CNAE. The programs
supported by the project in the two states of Piaui and Pernambuco will
provide: (i) valuable information on the efficiency of a new mechanism
(Pernambuco) compared to the traditional one (Piaui); and (ii) more complete
data on the impact of the school meal program on school attendance, in two
different areas of the northeast. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the government that: (a) CNAE will, in the state of Piaui: (i)
provide regularly the meals to be distributed to the project municipalities;
(ii) train the school ancillary staff (merendeiras) necessary to prepare
the meals; (iii) provide necessary funds for covering the operational costs
of vehicles purchased through the project; (iv) implement related maternal
health education and nutrition programs for the project schools; and (v) make
adequate budgetary provisions for covering the salaries of additional staff
necessary for implementing the program; (b) by the end of October 1980, SEC of
the state of Pernambuco will sign an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with
the agricultural cooperative in charge of the school meal program in the
project municipalities.
(e) Strengthening of Municipal Education Administration
4.17      Municipal Education Units.  The proposed project will provide
financial assistance to each SEC and the project municipalities for estab-
lishing and/or strengthening a Municipal Education Unit (OME) in all project
municipalities (with the exception of the state of Sergipe, where the OMEs
are well established). In particular, the project will finance the costs
of: (a) training an average of three staff for each OME (one coordinator/
educator in charge of planning basic education within the municipality,
one to three school supervisors and, in some states, one administrator);



- 24
(b) equipping each OME; (c) construction, furnishing and equipping appro-
priate office spaces for the OMEs in each of the 13 project municipalities
of the state of Alagoas (three offices and one store); (d) providing allow-
ances for SEC staff organizing and monitoring the OMEs, for the duration of
the project; (e) fellowships for OMEs staff; and (f) salaries for OMEs staff
and operational costs, in some states, up to a maximum of four years.
PROMUNICIPIO, the executing unit within SEPS in charge of implementing the
OMEs program at national level (para. 2.03), will monitor and supervise the
implementation of the sub-component, through its mechanism already established
in each state. OMEs staff will be selected by each municipality with the
assistance of and trained by the state PROMUNICIPIO central staff. After the
project implementation period the basic salaries of OMEs' staff will be paid by
the municipalities.  Since project municipalities will be the main recipient of
the project inputs and assume the responsibility for implementing the educa-
tional objectives of the proposed project, the early establishment of Municipal
Education Units in each of the project municipalities is considered essential.
The establishment of a Municipal Education Unit in each project municipality
will be a condition of disbursement for the construction, equipping and
furnishing of project schools.
(f) Studies
4.18      The proposed project will provide financial assistance for:
(i) an evaluation study of the basic education curriculum implemented in
the states of Ceara and Pernambuco (ii); a study on the effectiveness of
the in-service and upgrading teacher training programs to be implemented
under the project in the state of Pernambuco; (iii) a study on the teaching-
learning materials to be produced and distributed under the project, as a
basis for the preparation of low cost materials with community and local
teachers involvement, in the state of Pernambuco; (iv) a study on the impact
of overage students on learning effectiveness as a basis for defining the
feasibility of establishing separate accelerated primary courses for these
students, in the state of Alagoas; (v) a study to compare and analyze the
efectiveness of the alternative food purchase arrangements in the state of
Pernambuco, and which will include an assessment of the impact of its program
in attendance and academic performance of basic level students; and (vi) execu-
ting school mapping studies in all project municipalities, except those in the
state of Bahia for which sufficient information is already available. In
particular, the project will finance the costs of: (i) about 61 man-months of
consultancies and/or technical assistance services, almost exclusively local,
for carrying out the studies; and (ii) salaries for key SEC personnel and
operational costs for executing the school mapping of project municipalities.
4.19      The above mentioned studies will provide fundamental background
information for project execution (school mapping) and for monitoring the
impact of the project (on a sample basis) during implementation. Furthermore,
some of these studies will enable the SECs to plan future programs designed to
alleviate present crucial issues (overage students) and to promote community
involvement in the education process (teaching/learning materials). Detailed
terms of reference for the studies will be prepared by the SECs on the basis of
the understandings reached during project appraisal. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the Government that by December 1980, the SECs of
the states of Piaui, Ceara, Pernambuco and Alagoas will send to the Bank for
approval the draft agreements to be signed with the institutions providing
consultant/technical assistance services for the studies.



- 25 -
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Cost of the Project
5.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$91.4 million,
net of taxes. The breakdown of costs by state and type of expenditure, shown
in detail in Annex 1, T-9, is summarized below:
Local     Foreign      Total
(US$ million) 1/
(a) Civil Works
(i)  Basic Education Schools                    17.02        3.00       20.02
(ii)  Rural Education Centers/Nuclei              1.00        0.18        1.18
(iii)  Municipal Education Units
(offices)                                   0.14        0.02        0.16
(iv)  School Meal (warehouses)                    0.05        0.01        0.06
Sub-total (construction and
site works)                    18.21        3.21       21.42
(b)  Equipment and Furniture 2/                       5.85        0.65        6.50
(c) Curriculum Development and
Teaching/Learning Materials                     11.12        0.59       11.71
(d)  In-Service Training                             13.01        0.68       13.69
(e)  School Meal                                       1.13       0.06        1.19
(f) Strengthening of Municipal
Education Units                                  2.32        0.12        2.44
(g)  Studies/Project Evaluation                       0.55        0.03        0.58
(h)  Professional Services                             1.11       0.06        1.17
(i)  Project Administration                            7.58       0.42        8.00
Base cost estimates (a-i)                       60.71        5.99       66.70
(j)  Contingencies                                   22.49        2.22       24.71
Physical                                         5.71        0.56        6.27
Price                                           16.78        1.66       18.44
PROJECT COSTS (net of taxes)                    83.19        8.21       91.40
1/  Prices of January, 1980 (US$1.00 = Cr$42.33).
2/ Includes equipment for all project components.



- 26 -
5.02      Base Costs.  Cost estimates have been calculated based on
January 1980 prices. Construction costs for school facilities have been
estimated on the basis of a simplified and functional design and construction
approach applied bi PROMUNICIPI9 for schools in the project areas. Base costs
range from US$98/5 to US$126/T for classroom in basic education schools,
and from US$101/m  to US$127/m  for facilities of the Rural Education Nuclei
and basic education school (grades 1-8/5-8); these costs have been derived in
consideration of current construction costs in the project states and taking
into account cost adjustments for transportation due to the distance of the
project municipalities from construction materials supply centers. The
majority of the classrooms to be constructed under the proposed project will
follow construction norms of the soil-cement (solo cemento) prototype school
built in the state of Bahia; CEBRACE will coordinate the construction of a
prototype school in the remaining participating states.  Furniture and equip-
ment lists were reviewed during appraisal and are reasonable in scope and
costs. The costs of technical assistance and consultants, who are expected
to be mainly local personnel, are estimated at rates ranging from US$500 per
man-month to US$5,000 per man-month, based on current costs applied to local
firms and institutions. Training cost estimates are based on a detailed
breakdown of requirements for each type of course in the states where they
are likely to be conducted.
5.03      Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies amount to 10% of
the base costs, and prices contingencies to 25.3% of the base costs plus
physical contingencies. Annual price contingencies were calculated as fol-
lows: 9% for 1980, 8% for 1981, 7% for the period 1982-1985. These price
contingencies are considered appropriate in light of the type of materials
and services to be procured under the project. Detailed contingency allow-
ance calculations are shown in Annex 1, T-9.
5.04      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at about US$8.21 million or about 9.0% of total project costs (net
of taxes); foreign exchange costs were calculated on the basis of 15% for
civil works, 10% for furniture, 10% for equipment and textbooks, 5% for
training, 10% for consultant services, and 5% for salaries and fees for local
experts.
5.05      Duties and Taxes.  Most locally procured furniture and equipment
will be subject to local taxes of about 15%. The estimated base cost of
these items, however, does not include local taxes, which will total approxi-
mately US$880,000.
Financing Plan
5.06      The net project cost of US$91.4 million will be financed as follows:
(a)  the proposed Bank loan of US$32.0 million (35% of total project
cost) will meet 100% of foreign exchange costs and 28.6% of
local costs;
(b)  the government will finance the remaining cost of US$59.4 million
(65% of total project costs).



- 27 -
Financing Schedule
(US$'000)
Calendar Year           Government         Bank            Total
1980                   1,203            552           1,755
1981                   5,560          2,545           8,105
1982                  16,350          7,345          23,695
1983                 21,145           9,500          30,645
1984                  11,382          8,498          19,880
1985                  3,760           3,560           7,320
Total                 59,400         32,000          91,400
5.07      Recurrent Costs.  At full operating capacity, the project is esti-
mated to generate an increase in annual recurrent expenditures of about
US$14.7 million (1979 prices), of which 83% represent the increase in rural
municipal teachers' salaries, as induced by the project, and 17% account for
the production and distribution of student textbooks, teachers' guides and
teaching/learning materials to rural schools, and maintenance of physical
facilities in project municipalities. The increase in total current expendi-
tures on education at project states and municipalities level, as a result of
the project, would be as follows:
Increase in total current
expenditures on education (1979-1985)
State             Municipal
Level               Level
Alagoas                      1.0                  1.8
Bahia                        1.8                118.0
Ceara                        4.6                149.0
Maranhao                     3.3                 92.2
Paraiba                      2.2                111.3
Pernambuco                   1.0                 63.4
Piaui                        2.7                100.9
Rio Grande do Norte          1.3                 52.3
Sergipe                      1.3                  8.4
In the states of Alagoas and Sergipe average salaries of municipal teachers
are already much higher than in the other states.



- 28 -
5.08      After project completion, the states will assume the recurrent
costs related to the production and distribution of textbooks and teaching/
learning materials. The increase in total current expenditures on education
likely to be generated by this project sub-component is rather small and
can easily be absorbed. Other recurrent costs likely to be generated by the
project (e.g., project administration and strengthening of the supervisory
network) will sharply decrease after project completion and/or fall within
the normal expansion of educational services as planned by each state. The
increase in salaries of rural municipal teachers employed in project munici-
palities will be assumed by the municipalities at the end of MEC's financial
assistance program (para 3.05). The phasing out of MEC's program to complement
salaries of full-time rural teachers will have to be carefully tailored to
the financial capacities of the municipalities. For example, assuming that,
by the end of the third year of project implementation, the municipalities
would bear the costs of a teacher's salary equivalent to about 50% of the
state minimum salary (the difference to the full minimum salary being still
borne by MEC), the increase in total recurrent expenditures of the average
municipalities (in at least four project states) would amount to 65% in real
terms while the increase in municipal revenues would not be likely to exceed
30%. Moreover, if the current proportion of education budget to municipal
revenues is maintained, recurrent expenditures' share of the total education
budget would increase from the present 68% up to about 98%, which would not
be acceptable for future development of municipal education. Therefore MEC
would have to continue to complement municipal rural teachers' salaries, when
these costs exceed the absorptive capacity of the municipalities. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from the government in this respect.
Project Administration and Implementation
5.09      Administration.  Project administration will be a cooperative
venture on the part of MEC, SECs and the municipalities involved in the
project (Annex 1, C-4). A special Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
established within the Secretariat of Fundamental and Secondary Education
(SEPS) of MEC, for the purposes of coordinating, supervising and monitoring
overall implementation of the project, with each SEC responsible for imple-
menting their respective project components. In carrying out its functions,
the PMU will be assisted by the dependent technical agencies/departments
of MEC, such as CEBRACE (for school facilities), FENAME (for textbooks and
teaching/learning materials), CRHJP (for teacher and staff training programs),
CNAE (for school meal program), and SEPS through its PROMUNICIPIO program
(for establishing/strengthening Municipal Education Units). The PMU will be
assisted by an Administrative Committee (comprising representatives from
the Secretary General, MEC; SEPS, SECOI, the Secretariat of Internal Control
of MEC; Ministry of Finance; and SEPLAN), and a Project Coordination Group for
project implementation matters (comprising representatives from the relevant
departments of SEPS, CEBRACE, FENAME, CNAE, and CRHJP. At the state level,
the project will be implemented by a State Project Management Unit (SPMU),
assisted by existing SEC technical units and within the framework of each
state secretariat of education. Therefore, the administrative and personnel
structure to be used for project implementation in any two states will differ.
Some existing organizational units, which would have clearly defined respon-
sibilities, will be strengthened through the provision of additional staff.



- 29 -
In addition, each SPMU will be assisted and supported, as necessary, by
technical staff from SEPS and by MEC's technical agencies. At municipal
level, the project will be implemented by the Municipal Education Unit (OME),
with direct assistance from the SEC's technical personnel.
5.10      The proposed project will provide financial assistance f£r setting
up the project administration structure described above at each administra-
tive level. In particular the project will finance: (a) salaries of key
personnel in each PMU at federal and state levels, for the duration of the
project; (b) salaries of OME's staff in project municipalities and for the
duration of the project; (c) a service charge for NEC's dependent technical
agencies, responsible for supervising, monitoring and assisting in the execu-
tion of the project components, for the duration of the project; (d) equipment
for some SPMUs and for the OMEs; and (e) operational expenditures for the PMUs
at federal and state levels and for the OMEs, on the basis of a lump sum for
each project implementation year. The establishment and staffing of MEC's PMU
will be a condition of loan effectiveness and of SPMUs a condition of disburse-
ment for each participating state.
5.11      Implementation.  The implementation responsibilities, by project
components and administrative levels, will be as follows:
(a) School construction: the Municipalities will be responsible
for: (i) site selection and acquisition; (ii) procurement;
(iii) making proposals for and/or approving contract awards 1/;
and (iv) making payments to construction firms. The SECs will:
(i) prepare preliminary designs and architectural master plans;
(ii) confirm and/or approve contract awards; and (iii) supervise
construction works and certify accomplishment of works so as to
allow payments to contractors according to contract conditions.
CEBRACE will: (i) assist each SEC in the preparation of architec-
tural designs; (ii) coordinate the construction of a prototype
school in soil-cement in each participating state, except Bahia;
(iii) check the execution of construction works for all physical
facilities including the warehouses for the school meal program in
Piaui; (iv) consolidate the information provided by each SEC on
implementation of the physical facilities component of the project;
(v) prepare its contribution to the quarterly progress report to be
sent by PMU to the Bank; and (vi) prepare an annual physical audit
report on the implementation of the construction financed under
the proposed project.
(b) School mapping: the SECs will execute the school mapping
of each project municipality, together with the OMEs staff
and assisted by CEBRACE.
(c) Curriculum development: each SEC will be responsible for the
elaboration of all software aspects, whereas FENAME will advise
on the printing, production and procurement aspects in cases
where a state prefers to print textbooks and teachers'guides
through local competitive bidding. SEPS will: (i) ensure the
quality control of each reformed curriculum, by reviewing
1/   In some states only state authorities can approve school construction
contracts.



- 30 -
it before its adoption at state level; (ii) monitor the
programming and execution of curriculum development in each
state; and (iii) prepare an annual education audit report on
student flows and achievement in project schools.
(d) Training programs: the municipalities will: (i) select the
rural municipal teachers and OMEs' staff to be upgraded/
trained; and (ii) keep an updated list of the upgraded/trained
teachers and OMEs staff. Each SEC will: (i) plan, organize and
execute the various training programs under the project; and
(ii) keep an updated tracer information system on the personnel
trained. CRHJP will be responsible for reviewing and approving
the duration, content, and staffing of the courses proposed by
the SECs and ensure that the unit costs are within reasonable
limits as agreed during appraisal; any substantial deviation in
the duration, content and units costs would require prior Bank
approval.
(e) School Meal: In Piaui, the local CNAE office will be the
executing agency for the project component. The state SEC
will monitor execution in accordance with the overall project
implementation schedule and the yearly plan of operation
to be prepared each year, and the conditions contained in the
contract to be signed by both parties during the first year
of project implementation. In Pernambuco, the SEC will be
responsible for: (i) preparing the draft contract to be signed
with the Cooperative in charge of the execution of the
project-component, and seeking Bank approval of the contract;
(ii) monitoring its execution by the Cooperative; and
(iii) preparing a yearly evaluation on the impact of the
program in the project municipalities where it will be
introduced.
(f) Establishing/strengthening of OMEs: SEPS, through the
PROMUNICIPIO established structure in each project state,
will be responsible for: (i) assisting the municipalities
in selecting the personnel to be appointed in each OME:
(ii) planning and organizing the training courses for OMEs
staff; and (iii) providing all the required follow-up assistance
to the OMEs in project municipalities, in accordance with
present practices of the PROMUNICIPIO program and the imple-
mentation requirements under the project.
5.12      To ensure expeditious and effective implementation of the proposed
project, the following legal arrangements have been made: (a) a Loan Agree-
ment between the Bank and the Borrower; (b) Project Agreements (Convenios)
between MEC and the Project States; and (c) Sub-Project Agreements (Convenios)
between the Project States and each Project Municipality. The key covenants
to be specified in the aforementioned "Convenios" are detailed in Schedule 5
of the proposed Loan Agreement between the Bank and MEC. The signing of the
"Convenios" by at least one project state will be a condition of loan



- 31 -
effectiveness. The signing of "convenios" between MEC and each project state,
and between each project state and its respective project municipalities
will be a condition for disbursement for each municipality. In the event a
proposed project municipality fails to sign the requisite "Convenio" within
a reasonable time, the state may request through the PMU the substitution of
that municipali,y by another selected in accordance with the original criteria.
5.13      Implementation Schedule.  Project implementation is scheduled to
be completed within 5 years (Annex 1, T-10). Given the integrated nature of
the project, considerable care will be required in the scheduling of overall
implementation activities. To assist in the effective and timely execution
of the project, an implementation schedule has been prepared for each state
by the SEC together with the appraisal mission. The first year implementation
program for each state will be prepared by the SPMU on the basis of a detailed
physical/financial schedule for each component. To further minimize possible
delays and cost overruns, all schedules will be reviewed annually by the
MEC's PMU and Project Coordination Group to identify potential problems and to
permit possible rescheduling of activities. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from the government that the implementation schedules, updated
annually by the SPMUs and approved by the PMU and Project Coordinating Group,
will be sent to the Bank for review by the end of December of each preceding
calendar year.
5.14      Procurement:  (i) Construction.  Construction contracts would not
be suitable for packaging because of the dispersed location of project
schools. Therefore, most civil works contracts for new construction will
follow LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and interested foreign
contractors will not be precluded from bidding. Remodelling of existing
schools will follow the same procedures as for the new constructions whenever
practicable; however, some new constructions and/or remodelling (about 10%
of total cost) may have to be carried out on a force account basis, but the
amount involved is not expected to exceed US$3.0 million (excluding contin-
gencies); (ii) Equipment and Furniture. Almost all equipment and furniture
will be unsophisticated in nature. The cost is estimated at about US$2,000
for a basic school (grades 1-4), US$5,000 for a complete basic school (grades
1-8) and US$8,000 for a Rural Center/Nucleus. It would not be practicable to
group sizable packages for ICB because of the number of states and municipali-
ties involved and differences in phasing of the execution of the project. More-
over, Brazil has a highly competitive industry and, therefore, LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank will be followed, but interested foreign manufacturers,/
suppliers will not be precluded from bidding. Total procurement of items that
cannot be grouped in economical packages will be procured through local
shopping and will not in the aggregate exceed US$500,000; and (iii), Textbooks
and other teaching/learning materials. Textbooks and teachers' guides will be
produced: (a) by FENAME, using the present co-editing system (para 2.15);
and/or (b) by the SECs, either through the state printing shop or through LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Brazil has a well developed and
competitive printing industry; nevertheless, interested foreign suppliers will
not be precluded from bidding. Teaching/learning materials are produced by
FENAME (para 2.15); the cost of each student package is below US$1.00 and of a



- 32 -
is about US$8.00. Items not suitable for procurement through competitive
bidding will be procured through local shopping, but will not in the
aggregate exceed US$500,000, whichever is the lower.
5.15      Flow of Funds.  Flow of funds procedures were reviewed during
appraisal in order to assure that funds for expenditures at the state and
municipal levels would be available on a timely basis. MEC intends to utilize
existing budgetary and transfer procedures for the transfer of project funds
to the states, and this process appears satisfactory. Every year around
October the states will submit to MEC a schedule of estimated monthly dis-
bursements for the next fiscal year (January to December).  This estimated
schedule of disbursements will be reviewed and approved by SEPS. Upon approval
by SEPS, an annual agreement will be signed between MEC and the state SEC
incorporating the approved schedule of disbursements. Thereafter, monthly
transfers of funds will be made by FNDE according to the agreement through
Banco do Brasil. If project execution proceeds ahead of schedule, additional
transfers can be made. Relevant project funds are then transferred to the
municipalities according to one of two procedures. Some states will release
funds against the presentation of appropriate documents; others, such as Bahia
and Pernambuco, will sign agreements with the municipalities for implementation
of works. These agreements will incorporate the terms of payments to be
released by the SEC. The funds are in effect advanced to the municipality,
and an inspector of the SEC subsequently verifies that works were implemented
as planned.
5.16      Disbursements.  The proposed loan, which will finance 35% of
the total project costs, will be disbursed at the rate of 35% of project
expenditures for each component. Disbursements are expected to occur over
a period of about five years. A schedule of estimated disbursements is shown
in Annex 1, T-11. Disbursements will be made against withdrawal applications
prepared by the PMU to the Central Bank of Brazil which will transfer the
funds to an account of FNDE earmarked for the Project. SEPS, upon request by
the PMU, will authorize FNDE to transfer project funds to an account in a
State owned Bank of each project state, earmarked for the project, against
statement of expenditures (Annex 3) as summarized below; the SECs will then
transfer project funds against school construction contracts/expenditures to
each project municipality. Each SEC will submit the statement of expenditures,
certified either by the SPMU or the executing agency under contract, for
project related expenditures. The PMU will consolidate the statements of
expenditures by State for submission with the withdrawal applications to the
Bank. Supporting documentation will not be submitted to the Bank but will be
retained by the PMU and be available for inspection by the Bank during the
course of project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering
procurement of civil works under contract, vehicles, equipment, textbooks and
teaching guides, major study contracts and technical assistance services will
be submitted to the Bank. Details of the documents required have been reviewed
during negotiations. Yearly educational and physical auditing will be made by
the MEC's dependent technical agencies involved in project implementation
(para. 5.11) progress reports to be prepared by the PMU will provide informa-
tion on the quantitative aspects and educational achievements of the project.
Financial auditing will be conducted annually by SEPLAN. The loan account
will be audited by the Ministry of Finance. Retroactive Financing, not



- 33 -
exceeding US$1.5 million (4.7% of the proposed loan) is recommended for
expenditures from March 1, 1980 in respect of curriculum development, teaching
materials, training of key project personnel, consultant/technical assistance
services, construction of prototype schools, school mapping, and establishment
of the project implementation units at federal and state levels.
Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
5.17      Monitoring.  Efficient monitoring and evaluation are essential
for the early discovery of problems and the implementation of adequate
corrective measures. The PMU will be responsible for preparing progress
reports assisted by MEC's departments and dependent technical agencies
involved in project implementation and based on information either provided
by the SPMUs and/or gathered during supervision visits. To ensure timely
data collection, the PMU will prepare standard forms for use by each SEC,
and after data analysis and consolidation, it will send the relevant
monitoring information, on a regular basis, to the Bank, MEC departments
and dependent technical agencies, and SPMUs.
5.18.     Evaluation.  The evaluation of the project impact and results will
be executed in two project states (Piaui and Pernambuco) on a sample of
municipalities by an independent agency or consultant (to be selected by the
two project states, together with MEC), assisted by the SECs and with the
participation of the PMU. The evaluation will concentrate on the following
four categories of objectives: (i) educational achievements of the target
student population; (ii) availability and use of physical facilities, textbooks,
teachers' guides and teaching/learning materials in project municipalities;
(iii) the improvement in the progression rate of the school population in
project schools; and (iv) the quantity and quality of administrative records
kept by the OMEs and the frequency/duration of each supervision visit paid to
project schools, as a means for measuring the impact of the institution
building element of the project at municipal level. A baseline survey will
have to be conducted before the start of project investments, in the sample
project municipalities and on a sample of project and non-project schools.
The evaluation will provide fundamental information on the impact of the
project during and after implementation, and will constitute a basic tool for
the preparation of the Completion Report by the PMU. Only two states were
selected for the evaluation exercise given the operational difficulties of
conducting such systematic evaluation in all project states. It should be
noted that the two selected states represent the extremes of the education
development spectrum of northeast Brazil and that many aspects of the studies
mentioned in para. 4.18 will, in fact, be addressed in a coordinated fashion
as an integral part of the evaluation exercise. The project will finance
the costs of about 28 man-months of consultancies and/or technical assistance
services for carrying out the evaluation. During negotiations assurances were
given by the government that: (i) the baseline survey will be carried out
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) an
interim report on the study will be furnished to the Bank for comment not
later than one year before the expected completion of the project, and a final
report will be submitted upon completion of the project; and (iii) a project
completion report will be prepared and submitted to the Bank within six months
after project completion. The hiring of the independent agency will be a
condition of loan effectiveness.



- 34 -
5.19      Supervision.  The project administrative and implementation mecha-
nisms and the organizational setup which will be established under the project
at Federal, State and Municipal levels, by streamlining and strengthening
present mechanisms/structures, will bring about a more effective means of
making investment decisions, implementation, supervision, and evaluation at
the three administrative levels. This will enable that the Bank adopt an
"indirect method of lending" to the project states and municipalities. The
PMU, assisted by MEC's dependent technical agencies and departments, will
coordinate, supervise and monitor overall implementation of the project
(para 5.09); progress reports would be prepared by PMU (para 5.15); yearly
educational and physical auditing would be made by MEC's dependent technical
agencies involved in project implementation (para 5.11); and financial and
loan account auditing will be conducted by SEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance,
respectively (para 5.15). Therefore, Bank supervision missions will focus
on the performance of the PMU and MEC's dependent technical agencies involved
in the implementation of the project. Visits to state SECs and project
municipalities will be made on a sample basis and when issues arise. During
the first two years of project implementation a very heavy supervision load by
the Bank is expected, particularly because all the PMUs and MEC's dependent
technical agencies and departments will require training and constant guidance
in view of the complexity of all project components. It is estimated that
about 40 man-weeks of Bank staff time will be required for supervision of this
project during the first two years, and for the remaining three years about
12 man-weeks per year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01      The project is expected to make a significant contribution to
the proper development of basic education in selected rural areas of the
nine northeastern states of Brazil and will benefit some 800,000 students.
In educational terms, it will be achieved by spearheading efforts to alleviate
such main existing bottlenecks as limited educational opportunities and the
very low internal efficiency of the system. Inequities in educational oppor-
tunity among municipalities in terms of access will be reduced by the provision
of new student places, through sound school location planning and better
utilization of existing physical facilities. The average participation
rate is thus expected to rise from about 53% of the relevant school age
population (7-14 years) in 1975, to about 80% by 1984 when all project schools
are likely to be functioning on a two shift basis. Improved curricula,
the upgrading of about 23,000 rural teachers, the majority of which would be
women, the strengthening of school supervision services by the training of some
2,000 supervisors, and the provision of about 4.8 million school textbooks, work-
books and teachers' guides, and 2 million teaching/learning material packages to
all rural project schools may be expected to improve the teaching/learning en-
vironment, student achievement and flow and thereby reduce unit costs per student
by appreciably increasing the completion rate. Unit costs will be further re
duced by improved student/teacher ratios from an average of 23:1 to about 35:1,
particularly in cases where schools held in teachers' houses will be replaced by



- 35 -
new facilities. Average unit costs for a student completing the fourth grade
in a rural municipal school are estimated to drop by an average 35-40% in the
project states, once the project schools are operating at full capacity.
6.02      The qualitative norms described above are unlikely to be achieved
without a parallel improvement in the administration of education, and
in this regard the project is expected to make an equally significant
contribution at all three administrative levels: the planning and manage-
ment capacity of MEC, of all nine SECs, and of all 248 Municipal Education
Units (OME) will be strenghtened by the appointment of additional staff,
the contracting of specialized services, and management training courses.
Thus the project will foster the federal government's policy of educational
decentralization while yet ensuring a well defined chain of responsibility,
particularly until such time as the decentralized agencies acquired the
capacity to manage their own affairs. Furthermore, the strong institution
building effort pursued by the project will enable the Bank to make sector
loans for further assistance to the education sector in Brazil.
6.03      Finally the project recognizes the fact that the retention of a
trained teaching force in the less attractive conditions of the rural
school requires the establishment of acceptable teachers conditions of
service, and salary scales. Participating states and municipalities will
be provided with the necessary technical assistance to formulate proposals
of this nature, to be implemented during the lifetime of the project.
Risks
6.04      It should be clearly recognized that this project involves above
average risks, both economic and political. In respect of the former,
the principal consideration is likely to be the willingness and ability
of the municipalities and/or states to meet the not inconsiderable recurrent
costs which the project will engender. MEC is shouldering the full burden
of capital costs and all nine States have indicated their readiness to meet
future costs of textbooks, teaching materials and the like. There is a long
term problem created by the need to increase salaries for trained rural
teachers. This problem appears to be met in the short run by the additional
federal resources now committed (para 3.05), but in the long run a revised
mechanism for basic education financing is required. The subsistence-level
living conditions of the rural families of the interior which have a negative
effect on school attendance, might delay the expected increase in enrollment
rates and decrease in dropouts, in spite of the education programs proposed
by the project. The declared government national development policy giving
high priority to the agricultural and rural sector of the economy together
with the continuous effort made by the regional development institutions
(POLONORDESTE) in improving the socio-economic conditions of the population
living below poverty level, will generate an increasing social pressure for
more and better basic education.
6.05      There are two main political risks.  In the first place political
considerations play a considerable role in determining the level of financing
and hence services made available to different municipalities. While the
project design has been prepared according to rational criteria, there is



- 36 -
always the possibility that political considerations may in future distort
proper education planning in the nine northeast states. Nonetheless it may
be hoped that the increased awareness within the municipalities of educational
needs and the strengthened expertise and role of the OMEs induced by the
proposed project may minimize this risk. Secondly the willingness of municipal
authorities to surrender the politically-charged power of appointing and
dismissing teachers at will, which would be curtailed by the proposed teachers'
charter, should not be taken for granted. However, the convenios which are to
be signed between each project municipality and the respective state call for
implementing within three years municipal teachers' service contracts which
should obviate this risk.
6.06      The proposed project clearly poses implementation risks due to
the complex administrative, legal and financial arrangements involved.
Covering 248 municipalities and nine states with project responsibilities
shared by three levels of government, this project is certain to encounter
some problems in execution. The project design has dealt with these arrange-
ments by: (i) working out agreements (convenios) between various levels of
government; (ii) the strengthening of institutions at all three levels;
and (iii) thorough discussions of project objectives and mechanisms at federal
and state levels. Supervision has also been designed in a decentralized
way, with certain responsibilities delegated by the Bank to the federal
agencies. This project represents a first step toward improving basic
education services and institutions in the poor rural areas of northeast
Brazil. These objectives and the steps taken to ensure successful imple-
mentation justify recognized risks which remain.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the govern-
ment that:
(a)  no construction or remodeling work of basic schools and
centers, will start before: (i) satisfactory evidence is
furnished to the PMU for delivery to the Bank that suitable
sites for the schools and centers had been legally acquired
by the respective municipalities and states; (ii) site
plans for the proposed schools and centers, approved by
CEBRACE, including the justification for the location in
accordance with the criteria mentioned in Annex 2, had
been sent to the Bank through the PMU together with the
school mapping of each municipality; and (iii) approval by
CEBRACE of prior establishment of a proper inventory of
the works to be executed including an estimate of their
costs (para. 4.08);
(b) all project schools will be used on a shift basis to offer
720 hours of instruction per shift (para. 4.08);



- 37 -
(c) prototypes of all textbooks and teachers' guides to be
printed under the proposed project will be tested at least
for a full academic year and evaluated and revised prior
to full scale printing and distribution to the project
-chools (para 4.10);
(d) prior to testing and implementing the modified curriculum
and the new printed materials in the selected project schools,
teachers will undergo appropriate in-service training
(para. 4.10);
(e) (i) in selectin' candidates for the teacher upgrading/training
programs, priori y will be given to those already employed
in project municipalities; (ii) teachers successfully completing
the !ipgrading/training courses will be appointed for a minimum
of two years and in accordance with the conditions of service
to be established by all participating municipalities (para.
3.05); (iii) teachers in project schools will possess a minimum
educational level corresponding to the fourth grade of basic
education, be trained or receive training in multigrade teaching
techniques, be trained to effectively implement the reformed
curriculum, before its application and teach a minimum of four
periods per day and per shift during the school year; (iv) super-
visors eligible to attend the upgrading and refresher courses will
have a minimum educational level corresponding at least to the end
of secondary education and substantial teaching supervisory expe-
rience; and (vi) full-time rural municipal teachers would be
remunerated in line with the regional minimum wage on a per shift
basis of 20 teaching hours per week (para 4.14);
(f) within three years from the date of the Loan Agreement, the head
of each participating municipality (prefeito) will present to the
respective legislative body (Camara Municipal) a bill to establish
a teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magisterio) to define teachers'
rights and duties, privileges and obligations (para 4.14);
(g) CNAE, the federal agency implementing the school meal program
will in the State of Piaui: (i) provide regularly the meals
to be distributed to the project municipalities; (ii) train the
school ancillary staff (merendeiras) necessary to prepare the
meals; (iii) provide the necessary funds for covering the
operational costs of the vehicles purchased through the project;
(iv) implement related maternal health education and nutrition
progra,s "or the project schools; and (v) make adequate budgetary
provisions for covering the salaries of the additional staff
necessary for implementing the program (para. 4.16);
(h) by the end of December 1980 SEC of the State of Pernambuco will
sign an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the agricul-
tural cooperative in charge of the school program in the four
project municipalities (para. 4.16);



- 38 -
(i) by the end of December 1980, the SECs of the States of Piaui,
Ceara, Pernambuco and Alagoas will send to the Bank for approval
the draft agreements to be signed with the institutions providing
consultant/technical assistance services for the studies (para.
4.19);
(j) the project implementation schedules, updated annually by
the SPMUs and approved by the PMU and Project Coordinating
Group, would be sent to the Bank for review by the end of
December of each preceding calendar year (para. 5.13);
(k) the baseline survey for the evaluation studies will be
carried out under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 5.17);
(1) the interim report of the evaluation study will be furnished
to the Bank for comment not later than one year before the
expected completion of the project and a final report on
completion of the project (para. 5.17);
(m)  a project completion report will be prepared and submitted
to the Bank within six months after project completion
(para. 5.17); and
(n) the Government will supplement the salaries of all full-time
rural teachers in project municipalities up to the level of
the regional minimum wage (para. 3.05).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:  (a) the establishment and
staffing of the PMU (para. 5.10); and (b) the signing of the "Convenio"
between MEC and at least one Project State (para. 5.12); and (c) the hiring
of an independent agency or consultant to carry out the evaluation of project
impact (para. 5.17).
7.03      Conditions of disbursements will be:  (a) for each participating
state the establishment of the SPMU (para. 5.10); (b) for each municipality
the signature of "convenios" between the project states and each respective
project municipality (para. 5.12); (c) for the construction, equipping and
furnishing of project schools the establishment of the Municipal Education
Unit in each project municipality (para. 4.17) and the execution of the
school mapping of the project municipalities (para. 4.06).
7.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$32.0 million equivalent to the Federative Republic of
Brazil for a term of 15 years including a grace period of three years.
April 28, 1980



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Education Expenditures by Level of Administration 1960, 1970 and 1974-76
(in million Cr$ current prices)
1960             1970              1974             1975             1976
Ministry of Education                    18            1,338             3,496           5,262             9,816
Other Ministries                                         177              513              388               466
(A)   Federal Goverrnment                      18            1,515             4,009            5,650           10,282
(B)   State Expenditures on Education          32            3,410            12,526           17,033           25,501
'0 .
(C)   Municipal Expenditures on Education
Capitals                                               180              627            1,539             3,775
Interior                                               449            1,729            2,435             3,429
Total Municipalities                      4              629            2,357            3,974             7,204
(D)   TOTAL Public Sector                      54            3,554                            26,657            42,987
GNP                   1/              3,234          208,301           719,519       1,009,380         1,557,469
(D) as % of GNP                       1.66              2.66             2.62             2.64              2.76
GNP in US$ Million  2/                                                 97,250          124,650           143,000
Source: Ministry of Education
1/ Getulio Vargas Foundation:  Conjuntura Economica,  '1 (7): 90-102, July 1977
2/ World Bank Atlas
January 11, 1980



-40-
ANNEX I
BRAIL                                               Table T-2
Page 1 of 2
NORTHEAST RASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Comparative Education Indicators
(Aswil 21, 1980)
GNP/W         % GNP   :% TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                                  :PRI. :AV.PRI.                         :SEC
:CAPITA: DEVOTED:PUSLIC    EDUCATION    :LITER-   PRI.  :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
AT     T0 EDU.:  EXP.   RECURRENT    :ACY ,:ENRDLL:TION               :DENTS:SALARV1 IN: 10N RATE :ENROLL:OENIS!ENROLL.:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP ALLOCATED-  RATE :RATIO :nATE FOR:PER   :RELATION !FROM PRI. :RATIO :PER  :RATIO 
POP. :PRICES: EXP.          TO           TO'       :(7 OF   : NET   :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :TO SEC.: NET   :TEACH  GROSS:
YP:MILLS. : (USSV: ONIYII        EOU. :PRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTSI! 1%) :CYCLEM%:ER              : CAPITA   :               M :1) ER       1
AO¶1V ANC EILl
AStARIA         74   7.5G 5.620G        5.31    S.SEY  24Y  5)Y  1SY   99           98       930       260      2.01)      990      510D    190    ¶6.85Y
CANADA          75  22.8  7.135         7.3   16.7       70   37   26      96       99       97        19       2.0        99       90       18     16.00
GERMANY F.RlEP.75  61.6  6.670          5.0    ¶0.2      31EY 64'' 26EY  99         90       99        23EY      .         997      64Y    22C   20.26Y
JAPAN           75 11i.6  4.450         4.3E  20.7E   40U7 3711Y IIUY  99           990      99C       25       2.06       99C      9511    20C   24.69Y
NEIIIERiANOS    75  13.7  5.425         9.4   22.40    21   39   25    99           95       95        29       2.0        97       so       20     12.00
NrW 7FAIANO,   73   3.IG 4.200r         52.2  ...        39   24   29    99         99       99        26         .        99       67       19    24.00
NORlWAY         76   4.0  8.043         7 2    ¶4.4      54   24   15    99         99       99        16       1.5        99E      62       II     11.00
SWEDEN          76   8.2  6,150,    6.6    14.0         23   29   i2    99          99       99        ¶6       .         o9?       85C      13    30.00C
U.k.            75  56.0  3.780         7.)    13.9      26   4)    ¶6    99        99       ...       24       2.0        ---      66       17    21.00X
U.S.A,          76 .2i4.6  7.950      5.4    ¶6.9    . ..   72'' 26        99E      99       99        22       . ..       99       93       ¶9    24.00
EUROCT
GREECE          76   9.1  2.590         2.6    i0.4      37   26   2       8666     99       620       3)      2.0         70E      s0       27     15.(0
IRELAND         74   3.1G 2,620G    5.1    (3.90    43Y  41V'  i41   98            10611'    99A      35       ...        95A       6517    IS9    15.477
PORTUJGAL    .  77   9.7  1.650         3,6   ¶5.4    41    21   IS    700           62      60'       ¶9      2.0        .75.      35       12      5.00
ROMANIA         75  21.2  1.240         4.0     6.4     36    19   13    96         101)1    . ..      21      . ..        96       49      22      10.00
SPAIN           74  35.6G 2,9900        2.46   15.2A   49Y  22Y  .A5Y   94A    11511         . ..     35A      . . .       ..       781Y   30       17.66Y
At  Il (:A
ALGERIA         78  ¶7.3  iIIOCH        7.4    i4.3FV  34   26   21    377          86       45        36       4.0        55       31      27       6.00
RENIN           74   3.20    ¶600       7 ?N  36.0OY   470  230   ¶00    110        44XY     706       53Y    25.06        438      11)17   39R    0.74Y
BOTSWANA        76   0.6      620       5:4    19.0    46    39    i3    35         s0o     7 0        31       9.0        50       20       22      1.50
SlURUNDI        78   4.1       130)H    2.7   22.1R   46R  336  216   26            231'     45        32       9.0        22        31      ¶6      0.5
CAMFROON        76   7.7      314       3.7   2i.5      33   43   20        ...    60        45        62      4,0         20        90     24       0 90C.Y
('.6.6.         74    i.SP    220F      3.00   i7.00   566   196          ...    7971        25       69T      . ..        la        RXY   2767    0.211'
CHAD            75   4.0       120      3.0    ¶0.0     76   22             is      29161    30       6567    15.0          a        2)161   30     0.0167
CONAGOIR)       74    1.3F   5lOF    6.0    19.3    40   32   21    507    133X              63       63        6.0        46       331     22       3.40
EGYPT           79  36.7      400       5 5     .       30   39i  26       44G     73        60       30'       6.         2        49      177      15.00
FIIIIOPIA       77  29.0       ¶00      2 4  .  2 5     44   31    i4    ¶0        26        ...      50         .        63         a      36
GARON           74  0O5F 2.540F         5 00  20.60   250   91   IiD.  ...   ¶007            25C       46C      5.0        ISA      311     2iC    0.29Y
GAMBIA          76   0.5       ¶7.0     3 3    11.9     46   29      6      ¶       27       90        33      ...        92        13      25
GliANA          74   9.9f`  590F        . ..   19.7Y'  43Y  22Y  20Y0   ...    6011          626       307     . ..        148      361(1   Lacy    1.091
GUJINEA         76   4.7       IBOF     4.3N0  . ..     30   31   30        ...    301       64       45       I2.OF        66        13X    26       4.00
IVOI1Y COAST    76   7.0    610         6.6   23.i    33   46    ¶3         9A     50        66       43        7.70      47        ¶7XY1  26        1.64Y
KENYA           76  ¶3.8       240      6.9   26.0      67   23   to    40          607      607       34       6.0        30       16      27       1.0
LESOTHO         75    1.2      ISO     12.0OF  23.0     49    la   20      40      es        s0       52        7.OM      IT        ¶0      26       1.00
LIBERIA         76    (.5    410        2.4    ¶3.2     27   Is   20       73      5t        ...      26        2.0        ...      12      26       1)06A1
MADAGASCAR      77   6.0       240      4.0   24.0      53   26    19    50        90        33       44        6.0        38       14      23       1.70
M4ATAWI         77   5.6       L40      2.2    9.3      40    17   22      25       561,     21       61        5.0         6        52     21       0.47
MALI            75   5.7F       90F     4.2W1  33.OF   45F  37F  1SF   lOP          22XF     . ..     48F      9.5F       SOP        6X     21         .
MAURITANIA      71   1.3F   320F    4.1Y  20.01'........                   0OA      1771'    ...      22A       ...                  3)11    244      .
MAURITIUS       76   O.9L   660         4.7    12.i    50   26    6         OC     94        99       24        4.5         90      45      32       1.50
MOROCCO         76  18..2    520        6.3    15.2     396  466   136   26        65X       33      ,40        ..        33        ¶7X1    2        40
NIGERIA         74  75.OF   340)F    4.1DY 24.2DY  23Y   6    2             .       41'      ..       30                    .        01    220C      4.0.40
RWANOA          73   4.1F   ¶00)'       3_2C  26.00).. ... ...23                   52        . ..     5I        .     .   ...        2      13      0.23CY
SENEGAL         77   5.2      420       5.0   23.0      46   34   20       10      32        .. .     49       (0.0       20        (0      21       1.5
SIERRA (POOPF  73   3.0F"  200F    3.4   23.4           31   36   30       157     34X       45       32        4.OE      68        13)1    21,0.5367
SOMALIA         78   3.6       ¶10      5.0    12.0     69   31   21    60?        391'      s0       27       t2.0       76         5    .4        0.10
SUDOAN          76  15.9      290       4.5    19.9     48   36   16    20          34       74       33        2.6       33        14      24        1.24
SWAZIL.ANDA     76   0.5      560       6.114  12.2     37   33   23    65         92X'    49         37        4.0OH     66        321X    20        2.OOX1
TANZANIA        78  17.1    230         6 SN  ¶5.8      43    19   ¶0    660       96        87       56        3.0         9        4      20U    0.36
T0or0           77   2.4      300       5.5   26.5      30   28   21       la      74        40       56        6.0       52         -      44      2.00
rUNISIA         73   5.7G   6000        6.3   23.4      37   43    la    55       .72        61       41       6.0        31        (4      21      3.00
UG,ANDA         75   11.6     230       3.4DY 16.70Y'  34EY 40EV 22Ev  25A         9317      . ..     34EV      ..          AA       GXCY)  21A    0 567
UPPER VO¶.-IA   77   5.6       116      3.4   23.9    31   I6   32          SC      ¶3       23       .51      24.0        19        2      25       1.0
ZAIRE           76  25.6       ¶40      6.0   22.0 ,49   26   29           IS      86ex      44       42X1      2.0       41        ¶3X1    27       1.001'
ZAMBIA          76   5.1      440       6.6    15.9     54   22   22       39      971       so       49        7.0       21        t6      23       1.50
CFNTRAL AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
BARRADOIS       76   0.2  t.620         p1.i   22.1     43   31   Is I99           1061      99       21        3.0       go        946      17      ..
COSTA RICA      76   2.1    1646.       6.6    33.0'    370  270  30O    900        93       77       32        ...       77        39      1       13001X
CUEIA.          76   9 59.S00OO         9.     1.0.         ..            969.9                       2          .7       6         es      Is5    15 00
DOMINICAN ¶IEI'.72 4.80    7900  3.0    13.6 42   24   22    SI      60        17       54        3.00      63        14      24      7.00
EL SALVADOR    77   4.1    170          4.0   27.2    64    8 27    62             Sax       32       39        2.2       41        23      21      7.00
GUATEMALA       73   6.20    70CCG      1.9   16.0      95   23   14    47         64        26       35        3.0       69         a      25       4.097
4A I T I        16   4 .7      200      1.0     6.0     61   21   ti    2016    25r          ¶ 3      560       3.0       62         4       . ..     0.7
HOCNDURAS       75   2.9G   400G    4.2G  16.60   620  15G  190   53                78       30       35        3.0       e6        11       17      4.00
JAMAICA         76   2.t  1,070         9.9    ¶6.2     37   33   22    86E    i)l           52       29        4.5       94        6       25      78
MEXICO  75  S9.9   1.050     ~~~~~3.100 ¶2.000  5)7  261 1¶2Y   76       112XY    31        46        3.0       63        35)11    23A    8.97TY
NICARArUA       74   2.3G   70CR,    2.5    14.2    61    i3   13,   57             65       21       37        2.0       93        17      24       7.00
PANAMA          76    I.6H (.220        5.4    ..       4214  ¶3t4  ¶3    62A    97          82E      3214      3.0       65H       49      34H   20.00
tRINIDAD A 1. 77    1.1  2.185          4.5    14.1     46    32   20   .95        96        9)       30       3.0        49        62      24        ..
SOUT11 AMERICA
BOILIVIA        76   5.8       315F     5.0    17S5F    ...38                       176      290      24        SEF                  48    ¶ta6      ..
66AZIL           75 ¶16.110 1.3ooG      2.81H  12.4     42E  20E  22H   64A        SSG       ...      27C1'     ---        . ..     260     I5CI   6.006
CfiILE          75  t0.3G 1¶0500        3.661  12.567  2311 101  SOY    . ..   (19)1         . ..     35Y       . ..       . ..     4677X        -.    6.551
COLOMIA         74  24.30   6500        3.30Y 21.2011  4401 2201' 11Y   73         10517     20       331       4.0       90        36X11    14A    6.671'
ECUADOR         75   7.30    7000       3.70  27.7C.......69                       102XY1    . ..     38C  ~. ..           . ..     36(17    14C     ..
GUYANA          74   0.SF   SlOP        5SRN   14.70    47   35   14    63A    921           39       33        6.0        19       62)     24       (.00
PARAGUAY        74   2.6G   650G        1.5    ¶1.0    55    1 3 22        61        2       26        0        1.9       65        (7"    12       5.00
UERUG7U1.A6404Y0'2.Y41121   ¶57    72                                              ¶111      36       3901       .0       70        461     230     I 4.41Y
IIRIIRUAV  ~75   2.8G 1.370G        2 5    ¶5.3    46   34   20    94          93X       . ..     24        . ..      83        . ..    ID
VPNE~1UF IA     73   ¶2.3G 2.540G    4.6   ¶q.9          300  250   170   776       61       . .      33        2.4        . ..     33q      . ..   12.63C1



- 41 -
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS  (CONTI                               TAblEX T-
Table T2 o
APRIL 21.  1980Pae2o 2
GNP/ :   G041   3 TOTAL:%  OF PUBLIC                    :PFRI. :AV.PRI.                                      :SEC
:CAPITA: OEVOTED:PUBLIC :EDUCATION    :LITER- :PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :SCH.TEACH:PROGRESS-: SEC. :STU- :HIGHER:
AT  : TO EIU. :  tXP.: RECURRENT    :ACV           :ENROLL:TION       :DENTS:SALARY IN:ION RATE :ENROLL:OENTS:ENROLL:
:MARKET: (PUBLIC:DEWOTE1D:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE :RATIO  RATE POP.PER   :RELATION :FROM PRI..RATIO  PER   RATIO 
POP. :PRICES: EKP.          TO    :      TO:     (A1 OF  : NET  :PRI.SCH.:TEACH: TO GNP/ :T0 SEC.    NET  :TEACH- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.: (US$): ONLY!  :EIU.  FPRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTSI: 1%)  :CYCLE(%:ER                    CAPITA       F%          %      R      (%
ASIA ANID OCEANIA
AFGHfANISTAN    77M  14.3      1800     1.8   $1.6      47   19   15    12         29X      69        37       3.0G        62       ex      17      i.00
BANGLADESH      73  P0.40       900     1.2   20.2      44Y  22Y  21Y   230        56KX        -      480       .         . ..     23XD   28         .
CHINA(TAIWAN)  73  16.3G 1.050G         3 2   14.0    28   41   ?2    82           980      94        40      14.0        84       610     26      20.000
INDIA           15 620.40    140G    2. OVY ..          ...    .....    29P        65XvY              43A      . ..       ...      29XY   20AY    2.34EY
INDONESIA       76 130.90   2900       3 0    11.0    26   32   15    6063    7eEK          431       30E      2.0        52E      1eEK    14E      2.00
IRAN            73  33.86 2.060G        3.3   12.6    80    IAR  12R   so          77       74A       32       5GM1       ADA      24      32       4.32CY
IRAQ            75  11.50  1.390G      6.7C  16.3CR .. ...   ..           260      93XY    . ..       22       . ..       . ..     3551    26C     8.47Y
.IORDAN         77   2.3    997         4.5K   7.1K   25R  5CR    3R   70          97K      Si        32       2.0        91       68      22      10.60
KOREA           TB  37.0   1.242        2.8   17.5    35   29   36    93          1021      94        49       2.9        91       60      45      18.00
I.ERIANON       72   3.20 1.0700        3 5   18.0    39   40   10    68           86       65        i9       2.0        63       26U     25     23.00
MAtAYSIA        36  12.6    860o        6.7   26.0      42   34   i5    600,    95          93        32       3.7        78       48      28       3.00,
NFEPAl          76  12SRF    IIOF       I.1    10.0     29   20   41       19      69       28        31       2.3        64        14      24     0` 8
OMAN            72   O.SF 2.300F        I.7N4   3.8    98      -   -       20      24X      99        27F      7.0        .. .     0.4X    9
PAKISIAN        75  71 30    1800       I 6   16.2    45   25    18    21          47X      50        39       2.0        . ..     17X    Ia        6.00
PAPUA NC.       75   2.80    4500       5.6   16.1    38   16   24    32           577      73P       31      11.0        90       12X?   24       0.90?
PIITLIPPINFS   74  43.20    4200        2.5   14.9    73   is   12    87          104X       . ..     34      15.0        . ..     46X      . ..   21.00
SINGAPITRF      74   2.36 2.5800        2.7Y   9.21    391  391   171   758    10951        72A       3lY      ...        99A      44XY   24        7.68Y
SYRIA           75   7.60   8300        3.8    6.9      39   25   26    53         89       70        35       2.0        92       45      21      12.00
TIIAILANDT      77  44.1      410       4.OV  20.0      55   30    is    A4F       83       30        35       5.01U      70       28      25       3.00
TIRAKFY         73  40.90 1.010G    5.6CY 20.6C.Y.....sv...                         5       . ..     34Y       . ..       . ..     24Y    27DY   5.631
YEMEN           73   5.40   3000       0.5    4.0       45P  21P  23P    10        15K      18        36       5.0        75        2K     19      o.05ev
YEMEN PIT R.  76    1.7    280         6.6      ..      57   28    P    20         695      48        30       5.0       94        21X    24       0.10
SUIMMARY FOR DEVELOPING COUJNT RIES:
NMIIBER OlF COUNTRIES:                  97    93       89   89   87    90         98       77        99         71      80        96      94        87
RANGE                               (0.5-  (3.8-  (21- (8-  (2-   (5-          (13-      (13-     (16-       ((.5-    (8-       (.4-   (9-       (.01-
12.0 136.01    95 1 721  50)   991          1335)   99 1      69 I      25.0 )   99)        95   I  451    30.1)
OUJARTILES:UPPER  :                  69   21.2        49   35   22    83         96       87       42          6       91        48      25     11.0
MEDIAN:                   4.2   18.0    42   26   18    53           82       63        34         4       PA        24      22      3.4
LOWER :                  3,0    12.4      33   21    I3    23        56       33        29         2       41        II      18      11.0
SYMBOLS-... DAIUM UNAVAILABLE                  A-1970 TIM BEFORE          M=CURRENT PRICES                          SOURCES:
-  MAGNIFUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1871                           N=GDP                                    ----
7  QUESTIONABLE                     C=1972                      P=INCLUDII4G FOREIGN AID                  COLUMNS  I AND 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STLUDENTS D1i973                          Q=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                         OR I8RD MISSIONS
COMBINED WITH PRIMARY            E=1974                      R'MTNISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY                 3 TO (4 I6RD MISSIONS
*.UNOER REVIEW                     F"1975                      S=MOE AN4D STATE GOVT. ONLY                                  AND/OP UNESCO
G=1976                      1-EXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STATISTICAL
N=i977                      U=PUL 8IC ONLY                                               YEARBOOK
K=19T8                      V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EKPENDITURE
Y-INCLUDING OVERAGED STUDENTS
Y.UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN ITHE EVALUJATIDN OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVEtOrMENT RETWEEN VARIOUS COUNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON TIlE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA.CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH
GREAT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTED IN THIE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY ITHE RANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES; TNTE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM4 UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND WITHIN LIMITS. TO CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF TtlE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.SUCII DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RANK IS' WORKING TO IMPROVE THlEM
PROTGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL WORK. IN THE.USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING QUALIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE IN
MI NO:
(1)'EDUCATION" AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING. FORMAL AND NON-FORMAL:
212 (PRIMARY EDUCATION REFERS TOI EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (EOG. GENERAL. TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL)I
I3P"LlTERACV RATES"4CDL.6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED PROM COUTINRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPROKIMATIONS AND IT IS
DOURSIFUL THAF ANY UNIFORM DEFINITION OF "LIFERATE" HIS BEENJ FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY;
I4.I"PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATIDNVICOLS.3.4 AND SI REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION MY
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES;
(S1"ENROLLMENT RATIOS"(COLS 7. 12 AND 141 REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MEAN THE PERCENTAGE Of ELIGIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FULL-TIME
IN THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE By LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SURBJECT TO A WIDE MARGIN OF ERROR IN THE DEVELOPING
COLONTRIES OWING TO VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF RASIC DATA4IIE. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS)  ENROLLM4ENT FIGURES
FRECUJENILY ARE HIGHER THAN THAE NUIMBER OF STIITTFNTS ACTtJALL-Y IN SCHOOL. OVERAGEO STUDENTS WHOSE INCLUSION IS INDICATED BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE TIIE RATIOS.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Tablb T-3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Gross Participation Rate and Total Enrollment
(Grades 1-8), by ReRion, 1955 and 1975
Gross Participation Rate,        Total Enrollment
School-Age Population            Grades 1-8
Region                               7-14 years (X)                (million)
1955               1975         1955         1975
North                             34                  85          1.4         0.82
Northeast                                             79                      5.38
Southeast                                             97                      8.86
68                              4.5
South                                                 86.9                    3.73
Center West                       46                  88.5        0.4         1.26
Brazil                          54                  93          6.3       20.05
Source: Mission calculations based on: Brazil, Anuario Estatistico, 1976
January 11, 1980



- 43 -                       ANNEX I
Table T-4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Northeast: School Age Population 7-14 years and Net Participation Rates
1975
School Age Population            Net Participation
State                        7-14 years, in  000's                 Rates, %
Total           Rural            Total        Rural
Maranhao                     745.2            508.3             61.0         55.7
Piaui                        456.1            294.4             72.5         63.3
Ceara                      1,109.8            651.8             52.0         35.9
Rio Grande do Norte          401.1            201.9             56.5         50.8
Paraiba                      573.8            327.5             56.0         48.4
Pernambuco                 1,246.1            564.1             62.5         50.1
Alagoas                      390.1            219.2             53.4         41.4
Sergipe                      275.5            129.2             62.5         43.4
Bahia                      1,864.2          1,044.4             59.2         44.5
Northeast                  7,253.1          3,940.8
Source: Brazil, Anuario Estatistico, 1976
States' Project Request Documents
January 11, 1980



- 44 -                            ANNEX 1
Table T-5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
School age population, 7-14 years. Enrollment Grades 1-8
and Representation Indices, by States, 1974
Population 7-14 yrs.  Enrcllment Grades 1-8    Representation Indices
Total     Rural         Total       Rural        Total        Rural
NORTH                    4.19       4.98          3.87        4.65         0.92        0.93
RondAnia               0.13       0.13         0.17        0.28          1.23        2.26
Acre                   0.26       0.42         0.21        0.34          0.81        0.82
Amazonas               1.13       1.41         0.85        0.96          0.75        0.68
Roraima                0.05       0.06         0.06        0.07          1.23        1.13
Parg                   2.47       2.82         2.41        2.88          0.97        1.02
Amapa                  0.15       0.14         0.17        0.12          1.13        0.87
NORTHEAST               31.33      39.98        24.93        34.60         0.80        0.87
Maranha'o              3.38       5.44         2.54        4.48          0.75        0.82
Piaui                  2.02       2.98         1.88        3.20         0.93         1.07
Ceara                  4.96       6.51         3.20        3.76          0.64        0.58
R.G. do Norte          1.78       2.02         1.73        2.33          0.97        1.15
Paraiba                2.57       3.30         2.14        3.49          0.83        1.06
Pernambuco             5.55       5.52         4.88        5.36          0.88        0.97
Alagoas                1.76       2.35         1.23         1.73         0.70        0.74
Sergipe                1.00       1.19         0.92         1.17         0.92        0.99
Bahia                  8.31      10.67         6.41        9.08          0.77        0.85
SOUTHEAST               39.78      24.96        45.58       27.43          1.15        1.10
Minas Gerais          12.22      12.24        13.34        13.02         1.09        1.06
Espirito Santo         1.74       1.91         2.04         2.67         1.18        1.40
Rio de Janeiro         8.33       3.42         9.43         3.20         1.13        0.94
Sao Paulo             17.49       7.39        20.78        8.54          1.19        1.16
SOUTH                   18.61      23.37        19.30       26.88          1.04        1.15
Parana                 8.25      11.83         7.61       11.56          0.92        0.98
Santa Catarina         3.76       4.50         3.69        5.47         0.98         1.22
R.G. do Sul            6.60       7.04         8.00        9.85          1.21        1.40
CENTREWEST               6.10       6.72         6.33        6.44          1.04        0.96
Mato Grosso            1.96       2.32         1.83        2.35          0.94        1.01
Goias & Distrito
Federal               4.14       4.40         4.50        4.09          1.09        0.93
BRAZIL                 100.00    100.00         100.06      100.00         1.00        1.00
Source: Mission calculations based on MEC education statistical yearbooks.
January 11, 1980



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table T-6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Northeast: Rural Pyramid Ratios"/ (Grades 1-8), 1974
Grades   Brazil     MA       PI     CE      RN      PB       PE      AL      SE       BA
1       100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0
2        38.3    25.0    18.9   28.3    30.6    23.6    29.8    24.4    24.8    24.8
3        24.8     4.9     7.8   13.4    18.1    13.0    18.2    14.3    13.5    11.7
4        15.7     1.3      3.1    3.9     6.8     6.5    11.3      6.5     6.5      5.5
5         2.6     0.7     0.2    0.3      0.8     0.2      1.5     0.0     0.5     0.8
6         1.0     0.7     0.4    0.1      0.1     0.1      0.6     0.2     0.2      0.3
7         0.9     0.4     0.3    0.1      0.1     0.1      0.5     0.0     0.2     0.2
8         0.6     0.0     0.3    0.1      0.1     0.1      0.4     0.0     0.2     0.1
Source: Data obtained through the SEQUIN computer program
1/ A pyramid ratio is obtained by using the formula:
Enrollment Grade 2 X 100  Enrollment Grade 3 X 100 etc
Enrollment Grade 1       ' Enrollment Grade 1
January 11, 1980



BRAZ IL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Northeast: Repetition, Promotion and Drop-out Rates,
Grades 1-4, Rural, 1974
States           RR petition Rates %                 Promotion Rates %                     rop -out Rates %
Gr. 1   Gr. 2   Gr. 3   Gr. 4   Gr. 1   Gr. 2   Gr. 3   Gr. 4   Gr. 1   Gr. 2   Gr. 3   Gr. 4
Maranhao          16.9      7.6      6.9      5.2    20.7    17.3        9.3    16.1    62.4    75.1    83.8    78.7
Piaui             31.4    19.1    15.4    16.2    12.9    37.1    37.5            8.6    55.7    43.8    47.1    75.2
Ceara              8.9    13.0    12.1    10.5    14.5    53.6    32.1            7.6    76.6    33.4    55.8    81.9
R.G. do Norte    21.6    15.6    12.4    11.6    24.2    56.2    35.5    13.5    54.2    28.2    52.1    25.1
Pararba           10.1      8.9      8.5      9.2    19.0    49.4    46.8         2.5    70.9    41.7    44.7    88.3
Pernambuco        12.7      7.1      5.8      5.7    27.0    65.2    61.9    13.0    60.3    27.7    32.3    81.3
Alagoas           22.4    18.7    16.1    14.6    18.0    50.6    39.7            0.0    59.6    30.7    44.2    85.4
Sergipe           44.5    34.3    29.0    23.9    15.7    41.8    40.9            6.3    39.8    23.9    50.1    69.8
Bahia             16.7    14.4    14.0    12.8    19.4    44.1    45.2    16.0    63.9    41.5    40.8    71.2
Northeast         18.3    12.1    11.3        9.2    19.1    45.6    40.9    11.4    62.6    42.3    47.8    79.4
Brasil            24.0    16.8    12.8    1222    29.0    58.5    56.1    15.9    47.0    24.7    31.1    71.9
m 4
Source:  Mission calculations based on official statistics of the Ministry of Education and Culture
January 11, 1980



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Project Components by State
Constructiou, Furniture         School  Textbooks                 Upgrading/In-Service    Establishing/ T.A. and/or
and Equipment            Meal    & Teachers  Teaching/            Training              Strength-   Consult-
Classrooms                       Ware-   Guides        Learning                 Supervisors   ening of    ancies
State                       New    Remod.  Centers   OMEs  houses                    Materials  Teachers   and Others    OMEs              (man-months)
1. Alagoas                   154      76        3        13      __        171,500      65,700         356       182              13           216
2. Bahia                     200      --       --        --      --      1,136,000    146,800       2,916        665              36           186
3. Ceara                     238    154        26        __              1,924,300    582,300       5,000      1,042              53           225
4. Maranhao                  300      --       --        --      --        399,100      47,080       1,800        139             22            64
5. Paraiba                   247      --       __        __                124,210    201,130       1,350          87            31            132
6. Pernambuco                  75     66       __                          158,500    264,900       2,078         217            29            117
7. Piauf                     119      --       --        --       9        783,200    406,190       3,200         350            35            108
8. Rio Grande do Norte       150    128         3        --      --                    103,300      2,580         228            14             -
9. Sergipe                   126      --       --         -                 94,500        -         1,500          40             -            159
TOTAL                   1,609      424      32        13       9     4,791,310  1,817,400    20,780         2,950            233         1,207            cr
January 11, 1980






- 48 -
ANNEX 1
BRAZIL                                                                               ANNEX I
NORTHEAST BASIC EDJUCATION PROJECT
Summary Total Project Cost
(TTS ' 000)
Curric.
No. of                                                                 Dev. &
No. of         Student       Building                                                 Teaching/            Establishing/ Evalua-   Profes-   Project
Munici-          Places        Area      Site      CoBstui ntion   Furni-   Equip-   Learning                Streugth-   tion &    sional    Adminis-               TOTAL
State/MEC                                  palities    New    Remod.       m.'    'Works    New    Remod.  ture        ment    Materials  Training  ening ONEs  Studies   Fees              tration   US$(OOO)        Cr$(1)
1. Alagoas                                    13       6,760   3,040   22,440 /1    371   2,019        348      326       198        537          408         89         19       104          181     4,600          194.7
2. Bahia                                      36       7,000       --   20,300        373   1,863        --     288       766     2,463        1,808         216          --      126          194      8,097         342.7
3. Ceara                                      53      11,600   6,160   32,006 /2    543   2,711        648      717       692     2,379        3,145        614          125      123         319    12,016          508.6
4. Maranhao                                   22      10,500       --   30,450        519   2,581        --     432       293        809        1,080       482           18      206       1,335      7,755          328,3
5. Paraiba                                    31      8,645        --   24,283        414   2,059       __      492       280     1,085        1,162        137          18       204          125     5,976         253.0
6. Pernambuco                                 29       2,625   2,310    7,847         154      769     276      196        71     1,315          443         193      1,515 /3    12          437      5,381         227,8
7. Piaui                                      35      4,760       --   20,848 /4    354   1,820         --      292      444      1,855        3,536        586          41       198         328      9,454         400.2
8. Rio Grande do Norte                        14       5,775   4,480   16,323 /5    274   1,355        490      393       359        740         345        119          16       104         238      4,433          187.6
9. Sergipe                                    15      5,040        --   15,120        246   1,235        --     175        79        529       1,758         --          22        95         287      4,426          187.4
10. Federal Ministry of Education                                                                                                                                                            4,563      4,563         193.2
Base Cost                                                                        3,248  16.412   1_762   3.311    3,182    11,712          13,685      2,436       1,774    1,172        8,007    66,701        2,823.5
Contingencies
Physical Increase (at 10%)                                                      325   1,642      176     331       318      1,171        1,369        244         177       117         400      6,270         265.4
Sub-Total                                                                 3,573  18,054   1,938   3,642    3,500    12,883           15,054       2,680     1.951    1,289        8,407    72,971        3,088.9
Price Increase (at 25.3%)                                                       904   4,568   - 490      921       899      3,260        3,808        678         494       326       2,092    18,440          780.5
TOTAL COST                                                                       4.477  22.622   2,428   4,563    4.399    16,143          18,862      3,358       2,445     1,615      10,499    91,411        3,869,4
Poreign Exchange Component                                                         672   3,393      374      456      440        807          985        210         164        97         525      8,213         347.7
(X)                                                      (15)    (15)    (15)    (10)       (10)        (5)          (5)        (6)         (6)       (6)         (5)        (9)
1/ Includes 16,800 in new schools, 1,344 in extensions, 3,000 in centers and 1,300 in municipal education offices.
2/ Includes 20,680 in new schools, 4,800 in extensions and 6,526 in centers.
3/ Includes US$1,187 for school meals.
4/ Includes 16,720 in new schools and 4,128 in extensions.
5/ Includes 10,250 in new schools, 4,450 in extensions and 1,623 in centers.
January 11, 1980






BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Years-I/                1                     2                     3                    4                      5
Activities   No. of months         0    3    6   9   12   15   18   21   24   27   30   33   36  39   42   45   48   51   54   57   60
A.  Civil Works
(including remodeling)             7%         10%       15%         15%        18%        15%       15%          5%
B.  Furniture                           5%         15%       15%        15%        20%         20%       10%
C.  Equipment                         20%          15%       15%        157         15%        10%       10%                                                  1
D.  Curriculum Development              5%          8%        8%        14%        15%         15%       12%        12%         11%
E.  Training                          11%          147       147        167        16%         10%       10%         5%         4%
F.  Creation/Strengthening            12%          20%       20%        14%        14%         10%       107
of OME's
G.  Evaluation & Studies              35%          10%       107        10%        10%         10%       10%         5%
oz
H.  Professional Services             U%11         13%       13%        13%        13%         13%       13%        11%                                      D>4
I.  Project Administration            11%          11%       11%        11%        11%         117       11%        11%         6%         6%
1/ Calendar years starting on loan effectiveness date
January 11, 1980



- 50 -                    ANNEX I
Table T-11
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Fiscal                                 Accumulated
Year   Semester   Disbursementts      Disbursements   Undisbursed Balance 1/
1981       1            552                552                31,448
2         1,045               1,597               30,403
1982       1          1,500              3,097                28,903
2         3,045              6,142                25,858
1983       1          4,300             10,442                21,558
2         4,530              14,972               17,028
1984       1          4,970             19,942                12,058
2         4,830             24,772                 7,228
1985       1          3,668             28,440                 3,560
2         3,560             32,000
1l At the end of each semester
January 11, 1980



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Education System - 1979
PREe BASIC
EDUCATION                      BASIC EDUCATION                         SECONDARY EDUCATION                    HIGHER EDUCATION
GRADES               1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8         9      10    11                12    13    14    15    16    17
AGES   5      6      7      8      9      10    11    12    13    14            15    16    17                 18    19    20    21    22    23
LABOR FORCE
COLEGIO LE\/ELTEACHERSLAOFRC
TECHNICAL COURSES                                   O
0
1/   SUPPLEMENTARY PART TIME COURSES   l                   l       ~~~~ENGINEERING,E
PHYSICAL EDUCATION,
LIBRARY SCIENCE,
NURSING, NUTRITION,
PHILOSOPHY. SCIENCE                                 2
& LETTERS li1t DEGREE)
VENTINARYMDICINE                          F
0-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FICNEDARTS  LEV-B YEARCOURSE)
World Bank -20501
n Z
A S
VETERINARY~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MEICN
ARCHITECTURE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






- 52 -                                                                                ANNEX 1
Chart C-2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Ministry of Education and Culture-1980
I SECRETAR I AT  -  = = =                                                                                                                                                                          = = = = = M  GENERA L  I
LEN:A                         -                                                                                  ___--   =- -        -        -- - ---                        -   -- --- - FIAC
- -      -    --a-I-1NSPECTORATJ
D.EPARTMVENT OF TECHINOLO     SECRETARIAT OF          SECRETARIA  OF          SECRETARIAT OF         SCEA   TO                EATETO                  EATETO                   ERTRA
|~ ~  ~ ~~0             FUNDAEC N TA AN|D  IGE EDUCAT OF   |SORTSANDPHSY CAL ||SECRETAR IAT OF   II DEPART ENTO    EIRMNO                                                SECETAIA
GICALAPPLIATION  SFUNDAMYENUCTAL    OND                          SPORTSCTIO   ANDUPYSCAIO   CULTURAL AFFAIRS       ADMINISTRATION            PERSONNEL               OF SUPPORT
,~~~~~~R                                               ?    q       S                                                                                                             I
I   I    1F  I                                                                                                                                                                                I
I                    I                         I 3                     !|-                                                                                                                    I
1 1' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
HlECH                                                      FE                                                                                                           I 
S..,.. Minifty of Educatio, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                    World Bank -21390






ANNEX I
53 -                                                                                                                Chart C-3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Public Education Financing 1978
FEDERALGOVERNMENT                                                                             E   +-STATE GOVERNMENTS-                                           *                           MUNICIPALITIES                       -
Federal           Sport          Credit         Education          Fiscl           Ohe          Maufactrs           Incme           I,mport          RAl1             sale           Real Estate        Other            OtherUb                          Serve            Othet            Other
Lottery          Lottery       Opeiraton        Salary Ta.       neettles          Sou rce        S.ale Tax           Tax            Tax             Esut.t            Tan          T-anSt T-x          Tax.s           souresEsat                         Tax             T...            Souce
Tax                                                                                  o
I RE E tEXS    EX.10%
R L
Ed.io                                                                     t         sp. Prqro  F|r   f< th9rmo B                                 |g   f                                                                             f thgrmo
D-flop, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~     ~     h ftt th F.dhe F-ncidlt
IEt                             LhIE                                                              
Oeneopdn                       D.Ipeveoseet                     G ...rw.rnt                     M..niciat tlee.t                                                                                                                                               Municipality
th     . Feerl                                                                                P'9.,   
RE - Gross Revenue
RL = Net Revonue
So-rur Marques, A. Em--o: Fin-nci-rent ee Despesee
co-  Educacao no 8asil, MEC - Brsilia, JUN/1978.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 World Bank -20598






.
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Proposed Composition and Functions of the Organizational Structure for Project Implementation
MANAGEMENT
Project Coordination Group                                              dministrative Committee                (1) Approval of Annual
Composition: SEPS, CEBRACE,                                           Composition: MEC Reps.,                      Operating Plans,
FENAME, CRHJP, CNAE              1                         EPS   r    Reps of the Min. of                          Evaluation of Annual
I.                           Iinance and SEPLAN                                    Activities Reports.
COORDINATION OF EXECUTION    _    m EJ  m   -  -                                q                                         (2) General Coordination,
l      Project Management Unit               I                                            Programming, Monitoring,
l      Composition: Coordinator, Adminis-    *                                            Transfer & Control of
|                   trator, support staff                                                 Financial Resources.
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
l PROGRAMMING            FINANCIAL       I                                        (3) Technical Assistance and
*  ICONTROL SECI             SECTOR                                                      Auditing for each of the
lJ                   ,____ &CONTROLSEC.SECTORProgram's Specialized
_____s ----     ~    --                                                               Components.
FENAME                          CEBRACE                     CRHJP                       CNAE                1    (4) Planning, Programming,
Teaching/Learning                (Phys.                    (Human                   (School Meal                    Execution and Control
Mats.                  Infrastructure)              Resources)                  Program)                      of the Program in the
.                                                                                                           State.
EXECUTION
Sec. of Educ.              Sec, of Educ.              Sec. of Educ.             Other Secretariats
Alagoas                     Bahia                      Ceara                    of Education
LEGEND                                                                                                                                                   >eX
I1     Chain of command                                                                                                                               I
EllhluIChain of support                                                                                                                               4:
*     1 *Central coordination unit                                                                                    World Bank- 21527






- 55 -                        ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Criteria for Locating the Physical Facilities
Provided under the Project
A. Basic Education Schools, Grades 1-4
(a) adequate density of school age population (7-14 years)
within a catchment area of about 28 km ; (b) insufficient
existing infrastructure, resulting in pupils walking more than
3 km to reach the school; (c) enrollment rates of the school
population 7-14 years, within the municipality, below the average
of the micro-region and (d) all year round access possibilities.
B. Basic Education Schools, Grades 1-8
In addition to criteria A (a), (b) and (d) above:
sufficient students in basic schools (Grades 1-4) within
the catchment area.
C. Rural Education Nuclei
Same as for B.
D. Rural Education Centers
(a) the existence of more than four "distritos" in the municipality;
(b) minimum total population of the "distrito" of about 400-1,000,
according to the population density.



- 56 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Procedures for Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
In view of the wide dispersion of numerous small payments to be
financed, and, in order to ensure timely withdrawals of expenditures,
disbursements for salaries of SPMUs and OMEs staff (including professional
fees), administrative expenses, teaching/learning materials, furniture,
training courses, school mapping, small civil works contracts, and civil
works under force account would be made against Statements of Expenditures
prepared by the Ministry of Education's Project Management Unit (PMU).
Each State Project Management Unit (SPMU) would provide to the
PMU, on a monthly basis, a detailed breakdown of expenditures certified
by either the SPMU itself or by MEC's relevant technical agency according to
specifications described in Annex 3, page 2. The PMU would then consolidate
this information by state and major.expense classification and forward to
the Bank Certified Statements of Expenditures (See Annex 3, page 3)
accompanied by the certified breakdown provided by each SPMU. The PMU
should maintain a record of expenditures by state and major expense
classification.
Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be maintained
by each respective SPMU and be made available for inspection by Bank super-
vision missions. According to established government procedures, on
December 31 of each year copies of this documentation would be forwarded
by each SPMU to PMU for audit purposes.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Procedures for Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
DOCUMENTATION TO BE PROVIDED BY EACH SPMU
EXPENSE CLASSIFICATION                      DETAILED BREAKDOWN TO BE PROVIDED            CERTIFIED BY
1. Salaries of SPMU (including              name, function, period, amount               SPMU
professional fees)
2. Salaries of OME's                        location of OME, name, function, period,  SPMU
amount
2. Administrative Expenses
a. Transportation
b. Per diem
period, amount                              SPMU
c. Materials
d. Communication
3. Training                                 name, course, period, armount                CRHJP
4. Teaching/Learning Materials              quantity, type, period, amount               FENAXE
5. School Mapping                           location, period, amount                     CEBRACE
6. Civil Works (Small Contracts)            location, type of construction, expense   CEBRACE
(labor or material), period, amount
7. Civil Works under Force Account.         location, type Df construction, expense   CEBRACE
(labor or material), period, amount
8. Furniture/Materials                      location, type, quantity, period, amount  CEBRACE/FENAME
0



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PRO.JECT
Procedures for Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
Procedure 1
Form IC
9/71
STATDIEMT OF EgPIDITURES FROM           to_
PROJIFT            Dit.e
Loan or Credit No.
Rportinged w      _io  t_  o                       App licatioc Serl*1 1o._      _
(Kxpressed      
STATE
1.                     2.              3.               4.                 5.              6.              7.
Category of the        Lxpenditures frcm  Expenditures  Expenditures to  Amount Kligible        Amount          Amount
Schedule of                                during      End of Reporting  for Withdrawal    Previously   Requested undier
Withdrawal of          to beginning of    Reporting         Period          _% of Colum        Withdrawn  thle Applicatice
Proceeds          he,orting Period       Period      (Colunns 2+3)           No. 4                                                                 i
I.Civil Works (Small-Conts.)
I.Civil W4orks (Force Accts.)
2.Furniture1Materials                                                                                                                                             o
3.Training
4.Teach./Learn.Matls.
5.Salaries of CME Staff
6.School Mapping
8.Administrative Exp.
a)Salaries of SPMU
b)Transportation
c)Per Diem
d)Materials                                                                  ._-
e)Communications
(Authorised Representative)                 X|
TOTAL FOR STATE_                                                                                                                                               w
Certified by_____ ___
(Project Authority, PKU)



- 59 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Sector
A 1 - II National Development Plan (1975-1979)
Federative Republic of Brazil
A 2 - II Plano Setorial de Educagao e Cultura (1975-1979)
Ministerio da Educa,cao e Cultura - 1975
A 3 - Pol;tica Nacional Integrada da Educacao -
Proposisoes Preliminares para sua Formulacao
Ministerio da Educac,ao e Cultura - 1975
A 4 - Educagao para o Meio Rural, Ensino de 19 Grau
Polltica e Diretrizes de Agio
Ministerio da Educagao e Cultura
Departamento de Ensino Fundamental
Coordenagao de Planejamento - 1979
A 5 - Sistematica Operacional - 1978
Ministerio da Educagao e Cultura
Departamento de Ensino Fundamental
A 6 - Ensino Supletivo - Estrategia Nacional
Ministerio da Educacio e Cultura
Departamento de Ensino Supletivo - 1977
A 7 - Os Gastos Publicos e Privados com a Educacao Formal no Brasil
Versiao Preliminar, Marco de 1976
Secretaria de Planejamento da Presidencia da Republica
Instituto de Planejamento Economico e Social (IPEA)
A 8 - 0 Munic;pio e o Processo de Desenvolvimento -
Papel do Planejamento Local - 1976
Instituto Brasileiro de Administragao Municipal
Centro de Pesquisas Urbanas
A 9 - Municipalizac,o: Educagao e Saude
Instituto Brasileiro de Administrac,o Municipal
Centro de Pesquisas Urbanas - 1977



- 60 -                      ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
B.  General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B 1 - Metodologia de Planejamento da Educacao para o
Desenvolvimento Integrado das Areas Rurais
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura
MEC/Secretaria Geral/UNESCO - 1976
B 2 - Estudos sobre a Regiao Nordeste Visando a Educac,ao no Meio Rural
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura - Secretaria Geral, Volume I and II
MEC/SEG - MEC/Departamentos - IPEA/CNRH - UNESCO/PNUD
Brasllia, DF - Julho/1977
B 3 - Grupo Especial de Estudos para o Desenvolvimento da Educacao no Meio Rural
SEG/Departamentos/MEC - CNRH/IPEA - PNUD/UNESCO
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura - Secretaria Geral - 1978
B 4 - Projeto de Habilitacao de Profesores Leigos Municipais - HAPROL
Modelo do Curso de Habilitacao, a Nlvel de 29 Grau, em Magisterio de
19 Grau--l1  a 4a Series--para Professores Leigos, em Exerclcio nas
Escolas Municipais - 1976-1979
Governo do Estado da Bahia CETEBA - MEC
Departamento de Ensino Fundamental
B 5 - Projeto HAPRONT - Boletim Informativo
MEC - DEF -- SEEC - CETAPAR -- Margo, 1977
B 6 - Apresentagao e Implantacao do Projeto de Coordenagao e Assist^ncia
Tecnica ao Ensino Municipal (PROMUNICIPIO)
Ministerio da Educa9ao e Cultura
Departamento de Ensino Fundamental CODEATED - 1975
B 7 - I Encontro Nacional sobre Ensino Municipal:
O Municipio na Lei 5692/71 - 0 Artigo 58
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura
Departamento de Ensino Fundamental - 1975
B 8 - I Encontro Nacional sobre Ensino Municipal:
0 Projeto de Coordena,ao e Assistencia Tecnica ao Ensino Municipal
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura
Departamento do Ensino Fundamental - 1975
B 9 - Education Development Plans of the States of Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara,
Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe
B 10- Educaqao no Meio Rural
Reuniao com os Secretarios de Educagao do Nordeste
Ministerio da Educacao e Cultura
Secretaria Geral - 1979
B 11- Project request documents presented by the States of Alagoas, Bahia,
Ceara, Maranhao, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and
Sergipe.



IBRD 14947
48-   ^ .        .,                     .   *      -                                     b40                                        3S            APRIL 1980
A          A N T l A     C                                              B R A Z I L
C %,    -   C £ A N    0 NORTHEAST BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
-KILOMETERS 0   50  100  150  200  250
Ml,ES 0     50     100      150
P A R A,SAO Ltl;> 
*1                            5             l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ sobrat4                                                     4
4             °~~~~Santo Inkz,                fv         V      StuOa
Sant Ie                            FORTALEZA
-4-            /                                                    s   i         &4-
J   .'eo hnCesoceovs ,,         Canind6o
. /  300                            '< ,      ,6233
.7                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.54
. TERESINA             Croteds                             /Mossoro
#v  -9  Impewratrtz                                           o    ali9            ji  C  E A  R A . 1R10 GRANDE DO NORTE
0   w   M    A  R  A    N   H  A  O                                    I >   ,,.  peonnadEour                    128 J   ^'5n O rDl S  ATAL
Pompeu      /4                 0
OQ                            J~~~~~~~"            Lojes
'1,.Campina
Picos         /JuszeirodoNorte               P t  '0        Grande
pA_. R   A  B   A       'PESSOA
0 o       <                  P   I  A    U    i                                 /       P  A   R    Ai °P'
pParnarririm                                                 0        8. 
PE    R    A          UC       RECIFE
fJ  J                                        f   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p E R N A MA B U ACcoed7-6RCF
Bzom JesuS                                                  Fl_resto    Arcve/rc e Al
0                                                               G~~~~~~~~~~~AI..aranhun,7
.                              /         fly,,i (0r ¢                         ,         A  L.       0 A  S
G OI A S                                                                                                                 GIFE
O'ARACAJU
0~                                                      JacobinG            ; ,
a      /                                                        '<    .,       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A   7  Z  A  /V  7,
-120                                                  B        A        H        I      A                    Alagoinhas  iC                    f  A  N
Fe ira de0
SeabraO                 SantanaO
ThiS coop hth b.ee tceand binet
r                            /                                                 , iOSA LVADOR                  the rcti pgto thich it it attach d
The -d-nncen cod od the
arBom Jesus da Lap3                                                                            - eps
!or toceyente of t-tch bo-ndejec
Vit3ria da Conquista
0             I1heus",
A   Basic education classrooms(Gradesl-4)                                                       i                                           AiOPThfAST
A   Basic education schools (Grades 1-8/5-8)            M  I NAS                -.                    ,¢           '      BR   A  ZI
D3  Rural educotion centers                                      GERAIS               )         ieRot                 _
1   Rural education nuclei                                                          :'
O   School meal warehouses                                                                    / i                           \     Bicci.
*  Municipal education units (Offices)                                         J              .f
!  Remodeling of basic education schools                                                     '                CHt'e                      ,,--ko-''
Project areas                                                               \.                                        . Li           ,ri 4''¢
State boundaries                                                               .                               Mi°                            .
44-



