O0FICIAL LOAN NUMBER 1867 BR
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Northeast Basic Education Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              ,1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1867 BR
LOA AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1980, between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL ( ereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Borrower and
nine States and certain Municipalities of the Borrower (herein-
after collectively called the Executing Entities) with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to such States and Municipalities part of
the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Borrower
has given priority, within the 1980-85 sectoral development plan
for education, culture and sports, to the aevelopment of education
in rural areas, and has created, for the purpose of meeting this
objective, a program of socio-educational and cultural activities
for rural areas, which includes, among its sub-components, the
supplementing of salaries of municipal teachers in the Northeast
region, up to the regional minimum salary;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEC" means Ministerio da Educagio e Cultura, the Bor-
rower's Ministry of Education and Culture;
(b) "CEBRACE" means "Centro Brasileiro de Construg,es e
Equipamentos Escolares" an autonomous entity of MEC, established
by Decreto No. 72532 of the Borrower, dated of July 26, 1973;
(c) "CRHJP" means "Centro de Recursos Humanos Jogo Pinheiro",
a center within MEC for the upgrading of humav resources;
(d) "CNAE" means "Campanha Nacional de Alimentaggo Escolar",
a program under the authority of MEC, established by Decreto No.
37106 of the Borrower, dated March 31, 1955;
(e) "FENAME" means "Fundaco Nacional de Material Escolar",
a foundation under the authority of MEC, established by Law No.
5327 of the Borrower, dated October 2, 1967;
(f) "FNDE" means "Fundo Nacional de Desenvolvimento da
Educago", an autarquia of the Borrower established by Law No.
5537, dated November 21, 1968;
(g) "SG/MEC" means "Secretaria Geral do MEC", the coordina-
ting and planning secretariat of MEC;
(h) "SEC" means the State education authority;
(i) "Project Agreement" means any of the agreements to be
signed for the purposes of the Project between the Borrower and
each one of the following States: Alagoas, Bahia, Ceara, Maranhgo,
Parafba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande de Norte and Sergipe;
(j) "Sub-project Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be signed for the purposes of the Project between each State
and each one of the Municipalities participating in the Project
located in the territory of such State;
(k) "State" means any State of the Borrower which is a
party to a Project Agreement;


﻿-3-
(1) "Municipality" means any Municipality which is a party
to a Sub-project Agreement;
(m) "PMU" means Project Management Unit, a unit to be estab-
lished within the Secretaria de Ensino de Primeiro e Segundo Graus
of MEC to coordinate, supervise and monitor the execution of the
Project;
(n) "SPMU" means State Project Management Unit, a unit to
be established within the SEC of each one of the States;
(o) "OME" means "Org5o Municipal de EducagKo", the municipal
coordinating unit established or to be established in any Munici-
pality for purposes of the Project;
(p) "SEPS" means "Secretaria de i&nsino de Primeiro e Segundo
Graus", a secretariat of MEC;
(q) "Cr$" means "Cruzeiro", the currency unit of the
Borrower;
(r) "MEC's technical agencies" means CNAE, FENAME, CEBRACE
and CRHJP;
(s) "EMATER" means "Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e
Extensgo Rural", the enterprise of any State responsible for
rural technical assistance;
(t) "Regional Minimum Wage" means the salario minimo
in a region of Brazil, as determined by a Decreto of the Borrower;
and
(u) "Project Coordinating Group" means the group to be
established in accordance with Section 3.06 (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1


﻿-4-
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 1, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one quarter per cent (8.25%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried out by the Executing Entities,
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial and educational practices, and
shall provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿Section 3.02. The Borrower shall:
(I) (i) cause CEBRACE to assist:
(A) the Municipalities and States in the
carrying out of Part 1 of the Project;
and
(B) the States in carrying out Part 6 (vi) of
the Project, all in accordance with
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii) cause FENAME to assist the States in the
carrying out of Part 2 (iii) and (iv) of the
Project;
(iii) acting by SEPS, carry out Part 2 (vi) and
(vii) of the Project;
(iv) (A) acting by CRHJP, review and, if satisfac-
tory, approve the duration, content,
staffing and costs of the courses to be
rendered under Part 3 of the Project;
(B) monitor and supervise the execution of
Part 3 of the P zject; and
(C) unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
ensure the execution of the previously
approved plans on the duration, content
and costs of such courses;
(v) acting by CNAE, (A) carry out Part 4 (i) of
the Project, in cooperation with Piaui's
SEC, and (B) assist SEC of Pernambuco in the
carrying out of Part 4 (ii) of the Project;
(vi) acting by SEPS, assist the States in the
carrying out of Part 5 of the Project;
(vii) acting by SEPS and MEC's technical agencies,
assist each SPMU in the carrying out of Parts
1 (iii), (iv), (v), 2, 3, 4 (ii) and 6 (vi) of
the Project; and


﻿6-
(viii) acting by SEPS, carry out Part 6 (i) of the
Project.
(II) (i) in order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part 6 (i) of the Project, contract one or
more independent entity or consultant exper-
ienced in educational program evaluation whose
qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank for comment, no later
than one year before the expected completion
of the Project, an interim report of the study
under Part 6 (i) of the Project and, on the
completion of the Project, a final report of
such study;
(III)      afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity
to make comments on the studies included in
Part 6 of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Project
Agreement with each State, on terms and conditions which shall
include those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement and,
except as the Bank shall othevwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend or fail to enforce any provision of such Schedule 5.
(b) In the event that a Sub-project Agreement is not signed
between a State and a Municipality designated in the respective
State's Project Agreement with the Borrower, the State may propose
to PMU the substitution in the Project of any such Municipality by
another one. The Borrower shall ensure that the substitute Muni-
cipality is selected in accordance with the provisions set forth
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower covenants that it will not take or permit
any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance by the Executing Entities of any of
the respective covenarts, agreements and obligations of the
Executing Entities in the Project Agreements and the Sub-Project
Agreements contained, and will take or cause to be taken all
action which shall be necessary to enable the Executing Entities
to perform such covenants, agreements and obligations.


﻿-7-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
r        event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for review,
by December 31 in each calendar year, project execution schedules
for the next calendar year after they have been updated by the
SPMUs and after they have been approved by IU and by the Project
Coordinating Group.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) for purposes of the Project, establish and thereafter
maintain a Project Management Unit (PMU) within SEPS to coordi-
nate, supervise and monitor the execution of the Project;
(b) provide PMU with such staff, funds, facilities, services
and other resources as required for purposes of the Project;
and


﻿-8-
(c) cause CEBRACE, FENAME, CRHJP and CNAE to assist PMU in
dealing with matters related to their respective competences.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) establish and maintain
an Interministerial Administrative Committee to review the annual
operating plan of the Project, evaluate Project execution and
coordinate the management of all financial matters related to the
Project. Such Interministerial Administrative Committee shall have
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, SG/MEC, SEPS, Secre-
tariat of Planning of the Presidency of the Republic and Secre-
tariat of Internal Control of MEC; and (ii) establish and maintain
a Project Coordinating Group to assist PMU in the execution of the
Project. Such Project Coordinating Group shall have a representa-
tive of CEBRACE, FENAME, CRHJP and shall be headed by SEPS.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause adequate provision
to be made for the insurance of the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,


﻿-9-
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project, including separate
accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditures;
(b) retain, until one year after the Closing Date, all
records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Loan Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditures and shall enable the Bank's accredited representa-
tives to examine such records.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts
referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles


﻿- 10 -
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of such accounts for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion
by said auditors in respect of the expenditures referred to in
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of
the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of certifi-
cates of expenditure have been used to make payments for goods
received, or works or services performed, and that such goods,
works and services were eligible for financing under this Agree-
ment and were used in the carrying out of the Project; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) any Executing Entity shall have failed to perform
any of its covenants, agreements or obligations set forth in its
Project Agreement or Sub-Project Agreement;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Borrower's Decretos
No. 72532, dated of July 26, 1973 and 37106, dated of March 31,
1955 or in Laws 5327, dated of October 2, 1967 and 5537, dated of
November 21, 1968, which would materially and adversely affect the
ability of the Borrower to carry out any of its covenants, agree-
ments and obligations set forth in any one of the Project Agree-
ments;
(c) a change shall have been made in any legislation appli-
cable to any State or Municipality which would materially and


﻿- 11 -
adversely affect the ability of such State or Municipality to
carry out any of its covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in its respective Project Agreement or Sub-Project Agree-
ment;
(d) the Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CEBRACE, CRHJP, CNAE, FENAME or FNDE or for the suspension
of any of their operations with respect to the Project; and
(e) the head of the Municipal Government of a Municipality
shall have failed to present, within three years from the date of
the Loan Agreement, a bill to the legislative body (Camara
Municipal) of the Municipality for the purpose of establishing
a teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magist6rio) to define teachers'
rights and duties, privileges and obligations, in such Munici-
pality;
provided, however, that the suspension of the right to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be limited to the undis-
bursed portion. of the Loan which has been allocated to the Part
of the Project affected by any of the above-mentioned events.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by Banco
Central do Brasil;


﻿- 12 -
(b) the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
PMU has been established within SEPS;
(c) one Project Agreement has been duly executed between
the Borrower and one State; and
(d) one or more independent entity or consultant has been
hired for the purpose of carrying out the baseline survey and the
evaluation studies referred to in Section 3.02 (I) (viii) of this
Agreement and in Part 6 (i) of the Project.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by
Banco Central do Brasil;
(b) that the Project Agreement referred to in Section
6.01 (c) of this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
each of the parties thereto and is legally binding upon each such
party in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Borrower, its political subdivisions
or agencies, any agency of any such political subdivision or
otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower to perform
all of their respective obligations in this Agreement contained
together with all necessary powers and rights in connection
therewith, have been duly and validly performed or given and that
no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the
Borrower to perform all of their respective obligations in this
Agreement contained.
Section 6.03. The date               IMLI) /6 / , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFAZ
Brasilia, Brazil                   611506 PGFN BR
With copies to:                          Telex:
Ministerio da Educaqo e Cultura         611068
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70047-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Secretaria de Planejamento da           611146
Presidencia da Republica           611023
SUBIN
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70063-Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-14-
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Be- '~Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                   10,100,000        35%
(including pro-
fessional fees)
(2) Equipment and                  2,900,000        35%
furniture
(3) Training                       6,100,000        35%
(4) Goods and ser-                 5,200,000        35%
vices for
Curriculum
Development
and Teaching
and Learning
Materials
(5) Goods and ser-                 1,000,000        35%
vices for the
establishment, operational
costs and strengthening
of OMEs
(6) Technical assis-                 700,000        35%
tance for school
mapping, evaluation
and studies, con-
sultants services
and school meals


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(7) Administrative               3,500,000         35%
costs
(8) Unallocated                  2,500,000
TOTAL        32,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures: (i) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4),
(5) and (6) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after March 1, 1980; (ii) in respect of
Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and (8), for any State, until
the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the Bank
that the respective Project Agreement has been executed with MEC
and is legally binding on the parties thereto, and that its
respective SPMU has been established and staffed accordingly;
(iii) in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (5) and
(8), for each Municipality, until the Bank has been furnished with
satisfactory evidence that the respective Sub-project Agreement
has been duly executed and is legally binding on the parties
thereto; (iv) in respect of Categories (1) and (2), for each
Municipality, until the Bank has been furnished with satisfactory


﻿- 17 -
evidence that the respective OME has been established and staffed
adequately and that the school mapping referred to in Part 6 (vi)
of the Project, regarding such Municipality, has been accomplished
to the satisfaction of the Bank; and (v) in respect of Category
(7), for each Pernambuco and Piaul until the Bank has been
furnished with satisfactory evidence that its respective Project
Agreement has been signed with MEC and that its respective SPMU
has been established and staffed adequately.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to improve basic education
in selected rural areas of the States. It will enlarge educational
opportunities and improve the present low internal efficiency of
the educational systems. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part 1:   School Construction, Furnishing and Equipping
(i) Ccnstruction, furnishing and equipping of about 1,691
new classrooms for about 62,000 student places;
(ii) Remodeling, furnishing and equipping of existing class-
rooms with a capacity for about 16,000 student places.
Each new or remodeled school will have 2 classrooms, an
office for the teacher, a small canteen, a multipurpose area and
sanitary facilities.
(iii) State of Cear&: construction of about 26 Rural Educa-
tion Centers, each to assist at least 4 surrounding
satellite schools.
Each Rural Education Center to have 2 classrooms, an office
for the coordinator, a deposit for textbooks and teaching and
learning materials, a multipurpose area, a canteen and kitchen
area and sanitary facilities.
(iv) State of Pernambuco: construction, furnishing and
equipping of 7 basic schools (grades 1st to 8th or 5th
to 8th, or both), linked to already existing Rural
Education Centers (CERu) in 7 different Municipalities.
Each such intermediate school to have 4 classrooms, 1 practi-
cal arts room, a library, multipurpose area, administration area,
canteen and kitchen area and sanitary facilities.
(v) State of Alagoas: construction, furnishing and equipping
of 3 Rural Education Nuclei (NURE) in 3 different
Municipalities. Each NURE to have 4 classrooms, a
practical arts room, a library, multipurpose area,
school meal delivery point, admini,tration area and a


﻿- 19 -
teacher training wing with class and conference room and
bavic residential facilities for 40 teachers-in-train-
ing.
(vi) State of Rio Grande do Norte: construction, furnishing
and equipping of 3 Community Education Centers in three different
Municipalities. Each Center to have 4 classrooms, practical arts
room, a library, canteen and kitchen area, administration area and
sanitary facilities.
The number of classrooms to be built or remodelled in each
State shall be as specified in the exhibit to this Schedule.
Part 2:   Curriculum Development and Teaching and Learning
Material
Assistance to the States in designing basic education curri-
culum and syllabi for grades 1st to 8th. Such assistance will
include:
(i) curriculum design, development and preparation of
syllabi;
(ii) preparation of textbooks and related teachers' guides;
(iii) printing or acquisition, or both, of about 4,800,000
textbooks and teachers' guides;
(iv) acquisition of about 2,000,000 packages of teaching and
learning materials for basic education students and
teachers;
(v) supervision services to strengthen the central and
sub-regional supervisory network of the States of
Alagoas, Bahia and Para'ba;
(vi) monitoring of the programming and execution of new
curricula in each State; and
(vii) preparation of an annual education audit report on
student flows and achievements in schools under the
Project.


﻿- 20 -
Part 3:       Training of about 23,000 Teachers and of about 2,000
Supervisors and Administrators
(i) Courses to upgrade unqualified basic education
teachers.
(ii) Refresher courses for qualified basic education
teachers.
(iii) Upgrading and in-service training for school
supervisors and administrators.
The distribution by State of the educational personnel to be
trained under this Part of the Project shall be as set forth in
the Exhibit to this Schedule.
Part 4:   School Meal Program
(i) In the State of Piaui:
A.   construction and equipping of 9 sub-regional
warehouses;
B.   acquisition and utilization of 6 vehicles for
transportation from the warehouses to the schools
under the Project;
C.   furnishing and equipping of kitchens and canteens
in about 360 schools; and
D.   provision of meals to pupils in schools under the
Project.
(ii) In the State of Pernambuco:
A.   A 4-year pilot program to purchase the food,
necessary to prepare school meals, from farmers
located near rural school through a central agri-
cultural cooperative;
B.   distribution of such meals to about 50% of the
rural schools in Municipalities partially covered
by the National School Meal Program of the Bor-
rower.


﻿- 21 -
Part 5:   Strengthening of Municipal
Education Administration
(i) training of an average of 3 staff members of each
OME;
(ii) equipping of each OME;
(iii) construction, furnishing and equipping of office
spaces for the OMEs in each of the 13 Municipali-
ties of the State of Alagoas; and
(iv) provison of fellowships to OME's staff members.
Part 6:   Evaluation and Studies
(i) Evaluation of the Project impact and results on a
representative sample of Municipalities of the
States of Pernambuco and Piaul by carrying
out a study:
(A) to identify the educational achievements among
the student population of schools under the
Project;
(B) to check the availability and use of materials
and facilitics provided for under Parts 1 and
2 of the Project;
(C) to identify improvements in the progression
rate of school students under the Project;
and
(D) to assess the effect of the institution
building element of the Project at municipal
level.
(ii) Study to evaluate the basic education curriculum
in the States of Ceara and Pernambuco.
(iii) Study on the effectiveness of the in-service and
upgrading teacher training programs to be carried
out under the Project in the State of Pernambuco.


﻿- 22 -
(iv) Study to be carried out in the State of Pernambuco,
on the use and effectiveness of the teaching and
learning materials provided under the Project, as a
basis for *the preparation of low cost materials
with the participation of the community and local
teachers.
(v) Study on the impact of over-age students on learn-
ing effectiveness as a basis to define the feasi-
bility of establishing separate accelerated primary
courses for such students in the State of Alagoas.
(vi) Study to compare and analyze the effectiveness
of the alternative food purchase arrangements
in the State of Pernambuco under Part 4 (1i) A
of the Project.
(vii) School mapping studies to be carried out in the
Municipalities of the States of Alagoas, Cear,
Maranhgo, Parafba, Pernambuco, Piaul, Rio Grande
do Norte and Sergipe.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 1, 1984.


﻿- 23 -
Exhibit to Schedule 2
Distribution by State of Municipalities, Classrooms
and Training of Personnel
(Approximate Numbers)
Training of
Munici-      Classrooms       Educational
State                   palities   New   Remodelled     Personnel
Alagoas                    13      154        76           538
Bahia                      36      200       -0-          3581
Cearg                      53      238       154          6042
MaranhAo                   22      300       -0-          1939
Paraiba                    31      247       -0-          1437
Pernambuco                 29       75        66          2295
Piaul                      35      119       -0-          3550
Rio Grande do Norte        14      150       128          2808
Sergipe                    15      126       -0-          1540


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1983
through   November 1, 1994                   1,335,000
On May 1, 1995                                    1,295,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-25-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.65%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.30%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           6.00%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        7.15%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              8.25%
before maturity


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
Borrower's procedures in force on the date of the Loan Agreement,
which include competitive bidding locally advertised.
B.    Exceptions to Competitive Bidding
(a) With the prior agreement of the Bank, certain parts of
the civil works under the Project may be carried out by use of
force account; provided, however, that the amount of the works so
carried out shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the equivalent of
$3,000,000.
(b) Contracts for equipment and furniture that cannot be
grouped in economical packages shall be awarded through normal
trade channels on the basis of the usual procurement procedures of
the purchasers of such equipment and furniture; provided, however,
that the price of the contracts so procured shall not, in the
aggregate, exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
(c) Contracts for textbooks and teaching and learning
materials that cannot be grouped in economical packages shall be
awarded through normal trade channels on the basis of the usual
procurement procedures of the purchases of such textbooks and
teaching and learning materials; provided, however, that the price
of the contracts so procured shall not, in the aggregate, exceed
the equivalent of $500,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $500,000 or more, procured in accordance with Part A
hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the concerned Executing Entity
shall furnish to PMU, for delivery to the Bank, for its comments,


﻿- 27 -
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the
advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as the
Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of each contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Executing Entities shall furnish to PMU, promptly
after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
and such other information as the Bank reasonably request. The
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
other information shall be furnished to the Bank. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines of this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
The Project Agreements and
the Sub-project Agreements
(A) Project Agreements
The terms and conditions of each Project Agreement to be
signed between the Borrower and each State shall include (but not
be limited to) those set forth below. As an annex to the Agree-
ment, there will be (i) a list of the Municipalities within the
State included in the Project in accordance with criteria mutually
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank and (ii) a Municipality
substitutability provision as set forth in Schedule 6 to the Loan
Agreement.
1.   Wherever used in the Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement
(Northeast Basic Education Project) between Federative Republic of
Brazil and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment (the Bank) have the meanings therein set forth.
2.   Each State shall execute the parts of the Project for which
it is responsible with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity
with appropriate administrative, educational and financial prac-
tices, and the Borrower shall transfer, as a grant, to each State
the portion of the proceeds of the Loan required for the purpose.
The State shall refrain from taking any action which would prevent
or interfere with the performance by an Executing Entity of any of
its respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in
the Project Agreement and in the Sub-Project Agreements and will
take or cause to be taken all action which shall be necessary to
enable the Executing Entities to perform such covenants, agree-
ments and obligations.
3.   Each State shall: (i) establish, staff and maintain until the
completion of the Project, a State Project Management Unit (SPMU)
to carry out the State's respective part of the Project. Such SPMU
shall be established within each State's respective SEC and
assisted and supported, whenever necessary, by technical staff
from SEPS and MEC's technical agencies, pursuant to Section 3.02
(vi) of the Loan Agreement; (ii) update annually, through its
SPMU, Project execution schedules relating to the State and
send such Project execution schedules to PMU and Project Coordi-
nating Group for approval and delivery to the Bank, pursuant to


﻿- 29 -
Section 3.04 (d) of the Loan Agreement; and (iii) deliver to PMU
the availablR information necessary for the preparation of PMU's
reports to the Bank referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of the Loan
Agreement.
4.   Each State shall: (i) by agreement with the Municipalities
and otherwise, enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant redords and documents; (ii) take or
cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire
as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to PMU for
delivery to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project; (iii)
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively for the Project, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree; and (iv) adequately maintain or cause to be
maintained the buildings, equipment and furniture of the educa-
tional institutions included in the Project and make, or cause to
be made, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound administrative and technical standards.
5.   Each State shall employ education consultants whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower in order to assist the State in
designing new curricula and syllabi in the carrying out of Part 2
of the Project and for the evaluation and studies referred to in
Part 6 (ii) (iii) (iv) (v) (vi) and (vii) of the Project.
6.   Each State shall cause the procurement of the goods and
civil works required for its respective part of the Project to be
carried out in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
7.   Each State shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or shall make other provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
8.   Each state shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained


﻿- 30 -
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures, in respect of the part of the Project under the respon-
sibility of each such State, of the departments or of the agencies
of such State responsible for carrying out any part of the Pro-
ject.
Execution of Part 1 of the Project
9.   Before st,rting construction or remodelling work of basic
education schools and rural education centers, and before author-
i,-ng a Municipality to start such construction or remodelling
work of basic education schools, as the case may be, each State
shall: (i) furnish to PMU, for delivery to the Bank, satisfactory
evidence that suitable sites for the basic education schools or
rural education centers have been legally acquired by the respec-
tive State or Municipality, as the case may be; (ii) furnish to
PMU, for delivery to the Bank, site plans for the proposed basic
education schools or rural education centers, as the case may be,
approved by CEBRACE, as well as the respective justification for
the location of such schools or centers, together with the school
mapping of the Municipality or Municipalities; (iii) submit to
CEBRACE, for approval, a proper inventory of the works to be
executed and an estimate of their cost; and (iv) ensure that all
Project schools shall be used on a double shift basis, offering
720 hours of instruction per shift per academic year.
Execution of Part 2 of the Project
10. Each State shall: (i) ensure that prototypes of all textbooks
and teacher's guides to be printed or procured under Part 2 (iii)
of the Project shall be tested and evaluated at least for one full
academic year before being printed or procured, and, if necessary,
revised in light of such evaluation; (ii) prior to testing and
adopting the new curriculum, and prior to using the new textbooks
and teaching and learning materials, cause the teachers of the
Project schools to undergo appropriate in-service training; and
(iii) after Project completion, assume incremental recurrent
expenditures related to the acquisition and distribution of
textbooks and teaching and learning materials.
Execution of Part 3 of the Project
11. (I) Each State shall: (i) carry out Part 3 of the Project
by providing, through its respective SECs, the facilities, admin-
istrative arrangements, materials, staff, transportation, and


﻿- 31 -
taking all steps necessary to allow the selected school teachers,
supervisors and administrators to attend the courses; and (ii)
send to CRHJP, for review and approval, pursuant to Section 3.02
(iv) (A) of the Loan Agreement, detailed plans for the courses
to be provided under Part 3 of the Project, including their
contents, duration, staff to be allocated and probable costs.
(II)   The State of Alagoas shall cause the local EMATER to
assist SEC in the carrying out of the skill training components of
the courses under Part 3 of the Project.
Execution of Part 4 of the Project
12. Not later than October 31, 1980: (i) SEC of the State of
Pernambuco shall enter into an agreement, in terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, with the agricultural
cooperative in charge of the furnishing of food for the meals
under Part 4 (ii) of the Project, providing for the regular
follow-up of such furnishing, the establishing of prices, amount
of meals to be furnished, length of the furnishing, all to be
defined through negotiations between SEC and the management of the
agricultural cooperative; and (ii) SEC of the State of Piaui
shall make all necessary arrangements with CNAE, for purposes of
the Project, to provide for:
(a) training of the school ancillary staff (merendeiras) in
the preparation of the meals;
(b) carrying out of maternal health education and nutrition
programs related to the School Meal Program in the schools under
the Project; and
(c) funding the cost of salaries for additional staff
hired to carry out the School Meal Program.
Execution of Part 5 of the Project
13. (I) Each State shall carry out Part 5 of the Project in
the Municipalities located within the State's territory by: (i)
organizing training courses for OME's staff members; (ii) purchas-
ing the equipment necessary for such OMEs; (iii) assigning SEC's
staff members to participate in the State's SPMU; (iv) providing
for fellowships for OME's staff members and (v) assisting the
management and operation of the ONEs.


﻿- 32 -
(II) The State of Alagoas shall make all arrangements neces-
sary for the construction, furnishing and equipping of office
spaces for the OMEs of the Municipalities located within the
State's territory.
Execution of Part 6 of the Project
14. (I) Ceara and Pernambuco:
(a) Ceara's and Pernambuco's SECs shall furnish to PMU, for
delivery to the Bank by December 31, 1980, for comments, the
draft agreement to be signed with a selected education consultant
or evaluation agency for the carrying out of the study under Part
6 (ii) of the Project.
(b) Pernambuco's SEC shall furnish to PMU, for delivery to
the Bank by December 31, 1980, for comments, the draft agreement
to be signed with a selected education consultant or evaluation
agency for the studies under Part 6 (iii) and (iv) of the Project.
(II) Alagoas
Alagoas's SEC shall furnish to PMU, for delivery to the Bank
by December 31, 1980, for comments, the draft agreement to be
signed with a selected education consultant or evaluation agency
for the studies under Part 6 (v) of the Project.
(III) School Mapping
The States of Alagoas, Ceara, Maranh50, Paralba,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe shall carry
out Part 6 (vii) of the Project by appointing qualified SEC staff
members, providing necessary support and making all necessary
arrangements with the concerned Municipalities for the purpose.
(B) Sub-Project Agreements
The terms and conditions of each Sub-project Agreement to be
signed between a State and each Municipality located within such
States's territory shall include (but not be limited to) those set
forth below:
1.   Each Municipality shall establish and adequately staff
its Orgio Municipal de Educa%fo (ONE).


﻿- 33 -
2.   Each head of a Municipal Government (Prefeito) of any of
the Municipalities shall, within 3 years from the date
of the Loan Agreement, present to the respective legis-
lative body (Camara Municipal) a bill to establish a
teachers' charter (Estatuto do Magisterio) to define
teachers' rights and duties, privileges and obligations.
3.   Each Municipality shall deliver to its State's SPMU
satisfactory evidence that suitable sites for basic
education schools have been legally acquired and shall
not start the construction or remodelling of any such
shools before being previously authorized by the State,
pursuant to paragraph (A) 8 hereof.
4.   Each Municipality shall: (I) in selecting candidates
for courses under Part 3 (i) of the Project: (i) grant
priority to those teachers already employed in its
Municipal schools; (ii) not terminate without due cause
the employment in the Municipal schools of the teachers
successfully completing such courses, for at least 2
years after the end of such courses; (iii) grant pri-
ority to teachers successfully completing such courses
for the benefits and privileges of the teacher's
charter; (iv) in hiring teachers for schools under the
Project, require that such teachers (a) have a minimum
educational level corresponding to the fourth grade of
basic education; (b) be already trained or receive
training in teaching techniques under Part 3 (ii) of the
Project; (c) receive training to effectively carry out
the curriculum to be reformed; and (d) teach a minimum
of four periods per day and per shift during the aca-
demic year; and (II) in selecting candidates for
courses under Part 3 (iii) of the Project, require (i) a
minimum educational level corresponding at least to the
end of secondary education, and (ii) substantial teach-
ing supervisory experience.
5.   Each Municipality shall:
(i) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in
the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents; (ii) take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when


﻿-34-
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of
the facilities included in the Project and shall furnish
to SPMU, promptly after such acquisition, evidence that
such land and rights in respect of land are available
for purposes related to the Project; (iii) cause cll
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively for the Project, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree; and (iv) adequately
maintain or cause to be maintained the buildings,
equipment and furniture of the educational institutions
included in the Project and make, or cause to be made,
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound administrative and technical
standards.
6.   Each Municipality shall cause the procurement of the
goods and civil works required for its respective part
of the Project to be carried out in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
7.   Each Municipality shall execute the parts of the Project
for which it is responsible with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administra-
tive, educational and financial practices, and the State
in whose territory the Municipality is located shall
transfer to each Municipality, as a grant, the portion
of the proceeds of the Loan required for the purpose.
8.   Each Municipality shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of
the part of the Project under the responsibility of each
such Municipality.


﻿- 35 -
Schedule 6
Substitution of Municipalities
In the event that a Sub-Project Agreement is not signed
between a State and a Municipality designated in the respective
State's Project Agreement with the Borrower, the State may propose
to PMU the substitution in the Project of any such Municipality by
another one, chosen in accordance with the following criteria
which were applied in selecting the original Municipalities:
(a) Municipalities where problems of access to and effi-
ciency, and quality of education are acute;
(b) Municipalities with a rural population representing more
than 40% of their total population; and
(c) Municipalities not being assisted in any of the major
Project elements by the integrated rural development projects
being carried out by the Borrower.
Upon receipt of such proposals, PMU will review them to
assure that the proposed Municipalities do meet the above criteria
and that the number of classrooms to be built or remodelled and
educational personnel to be trained are within the limits for each
State specified in the Exhibit to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
in its respective Project Agreement. PMU will then seek Bank
approval for inclusion of the new Municipalities in the Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Sea! of the Bank thereunto
this          day of       , 19.
FOR SECRETARY


