Document of
The World Banlk
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14603
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2040-GH)
JUNE 14, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 31, 1994)
Currency Unit                     =  Cedi
Exchange Rate (average annual):
Appraisal: US $1.00            = 250.0 Cedi
Average (1989 - 1994):US $1.00  = 499.0 Cedi
Completion: US$ 1.00              = 956.0 Cedi
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB    -    Agricultural Development Bank
ARB    -    Association of Rural Banks
BOG    -    Bank of Ghana
BSD     -    Bank Supervision Department (BOG)
GCB    -    Ghana Commercial Bank
CCA    -    Canadian Credit Association
CGF    -    Credit Guarantee Fund (BOG)
CIDA   -    Canadian International Development Agency
CUA    -    Credit Union Association
EFC     -    Export Finance Company
GOG    -    Government of Ghana
IDA     -    International Development Association
MOFA  -    Ministry of Food and Agriculture
NGO    -    Non-Governmental Organization
RBD    -    Rural Banking Department (BOG)
RFID    -    Rural Finance Inspection Department (BOG)
RIR     -    Reference Interest Rate
SAA    -    Subsidiary Administration Agreement
USAID  -    U. S. Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2040-Gm
Table of Contents
Pae
Preface
Executive Summary ...................................................................                                                                                      i
Part I:   Project Implementation  Assessment  ................................1......................... 
A.   Project Objectives, Covenants  and  Financing   ....................                                                  .............................              1
Project objectives  and  components  .................................1.......................                                                            1
Covenants  to  achieve  project objectives  .......................                                          .............................                2
Evaluation of project objectives .                                  ..........................................................                            2
Project costs  and  financing   ..................................................................                                                        2
B. Major Factors Affecting Project Performance ...............................................                                                                       3
Overview ...................................................................                                                                              3
Delays  in  achieving  credit effectiveness  ...........................                                                ................                  3
Lack of interest by larger commercial banks ............................................                                                                  3
Low   ceiling  on  subloans  .................................................................                                                            4
W eak  capacity  of project implementing  agency   ...............                                               ...........................              4
C. Overall Project Implementation  Performance  .......................                                                    ............................              4
Overview            .................................................................                                                                     4
On-lending  component  ...............................................................                                                       ..           5
Institution  building  component ...............................................................                                                          5
Technical assistance  financed  under the  project ...............                                               ...........................              7
Studies  financed  under the  project  .                           ..........................................................                             7
D. Project Sustainability   .........................                                          ........................................                              7
Institution Strengthening .................................................................                                                               7
Rural banks  .................................................................                                                                            8
Subsidy  Dependence  ................................                                           .................................                         8
E. Bank  Performance  .................................................................                                                                               9
F. Borrower's Performance ..................................................................                                                                         9
G. Overall Assessment of Project Outcome  ...........................                                                   ..........................                   9
H.   Future  Operations  and  Key  Lessons  Learned    ..................                                               .............................                10
Future  operations  ...............................                                      ..................................                               10
Key  lessons  learned   ...............................                                      ..................................                           10
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                                                    I



Part 11: Statistical Annexes
Table  1           Summary  of Assessments  .........................................................                                      11
Table 2            Related  Bank  Loans and Credits  .......................................................                               12
Table 3            Project Timetable  ....................                          .....................................                  13
Table 4            Credit Disbursements: Cumulative  and  Actual   ..............                               ......................     14
Table 5            Key  Indicators of Project Implementation  .......................                           ......................   15
Table 6            Studies Included  in Project .....................................................                               ....  17
Table 7A    Project Costs by Category .......................................................... 18
Table 7B           Project Financing  .........................................................  19
Table  8           Status of Legal Covenants .........................................................                                     20
Table 9            Compliance With  Operational Manual Statements  .............                                   ......................   22
Table  10          Bank  Resources: Staff Inputs .........................................................                                 23
Table 11    Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................... 24
Part III: Sector-Specific Data
Table  12          Distribution  of Subloans by  Beneficiary  Category .................. ........ .......  25
Table  13          Distribution  of Subloan  by  Gender ....................................................    26
Table 14    Summnary Statistics and Subsidy Dependence of Selected Rural Banks ....... .... 27
Table 15    Rural Banks: Total Deposits, Reserves and Advances, 1989 to 1993 ............. 28
Table  16          Repayment of Subloans under the Rural Finance Project ...........                                      ................  29
Table  17          Rural Banks: Training  Courses Offered, 1991  - 1994 ................................. 30
Table  18          Rural Banks: Regional Distribution  of Training  ....................                              ................... 31
APPENDICES:
A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
B:  Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C: Maps: No. 21317 - Distribution of Rural Banks



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
[CREDIT NO. 2040-Gi]
Preface
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Rural Finance Project (RFP), for
which Credit 2040-GH in the amount of SDR 15.2 million (US $20.0 million equivalent) was
approved on July 28, 1989 and became effective on April 26, 1990.
2.   The credit was closed on December 31, 1994, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1992. Final disbursement was on May 8, 1995 and SDR 0.24 million which remained
undisbursed was canceled.
3.   The ICR was prepared by Rudolph A. Polson, Agriculture and Environment Division, West
Central Africa Department, Africa Region, and was reviewed by Cynthia C. Cook, Division Chief,
AF4AE and Franz Kaps, Operations Advisor, AF4.
4.   Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final completion mission, January 18 to
February 22, 1995. It is based on material in the project file, field visits to selected rural banks, and
on interviews with government officials, participating financial institutions (PFIs), and project
beneficiaries. The Borrower's contribution to the ICR was coordinated by the Bank of Ghana, which
assigned three senior officials from its Rural Finance Inspection Department to participate in the final
supervision mission and to provide information on the economic, institutional and social environment
in which the project was implemented. These officials also coordinated the preparation of the
Borrower's action plan for the future operations of the project. Evaluation of the project from the
Borrower's perspective is attached unedited as Appendix B to the ICR.



!



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
[Credit No. 2040-GH]
Evaluation Summary
1.   Introduction. At the time of preparing the Rural Finance Project (RFP) in 1988, Ghana had
undertaken substantial policy and institutional reforms. Macroeconomic policy reforms initiated in
1983 under the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) had earlier helped to restore fiscal and monetary
discipline and to stabilize interest rates. These macro-level reforms were followed, in 1989, by
financial sector reforms which also helped to strengthen the sector by improving the regulatory
framework, restructuring financially distressed banks and improving the efficiency of resource
mobilization as well as the allocation of credit. Because the latter reforms focused primarily on
macro-level financial institutions, the purpose of the RFP was to extend financial sector reforms to
the rural financial sector with the primary objective of strengthening the network of rural banks,
credit unions and rural cooperatives in order to improve the efficiency of rural financial
intermediation. The project was therefore consistent with IDA lending strategy in the financial sector
which emphasized restructuring of these rural banks to enhance their capacity to mobilize increased
local resources and to provide increased credit for rural investments.
Proiect Objectives and Covenants to Achieve Obiectives
2.   Project Obiectives and Components. The main objectives of the project were to: (i) expand
rural productive capacity and employment by providing financing for viable subprojects through the
banking system; (ii) implement a financial restructuring program for the 125 rural banks to enable
them to become more efficient in mobilizing savings and delivering credit; (iii) strengthen the
Association of Rural Banks (ARB) and the Credit Union Association (CUA) to promote
intermediation in the informal financial sector; (iv) strengthen the capacity of the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) for rural bank inspection and examination; (v) build an enhanced capacity for rural credit
appraisal among the rural banks and the national-level banks; and (vi) build local capacity for
research in rural finance policy. To achieve these objectives, the project had two distinct components:
an on-lending component, through eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs); and an
institution building component, comprising technical assistance to the BOG, the ARB, rural banks,
rural cooperatives and credit unions [paras. 1, 2].
3.   Specific Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Specific covenants for achieving project
objectives were: for credit effectiveness, signing of Subsidiary Administration Agreement (SAA)
between the Borrower and BOG as the implementing agency; submitting to IDA the operational
policies and procedures for the Rural Finance Inspection Department (RFID), the department within
BOG responsible for project implementation; signing of a participatory agreement between the BOG
and at least two PFIs; recruiting a Rural Finance Advisor and a Rural Bank Restructuring Advisor;
submitting to IDA the restructuring plans for the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB) and at least
20 of the 125 rural banks; and establishing a rural bank Recapitalization Fund within the BOG with
an initial sum in Cedis equivalent to US$300,000. Other agreements addressed issues of sectoral
policy and overall project implementation [paras. 3,41.
4.   Evaluation of Proiect Objectives. The project's objectives, as stated in the SAR, were clear,
concise and realistic and were consistent with government's priorities for restructuring the rural



ii
financial sector. Given the dismal state of the rural banks, these priorities consisted primarily of
strengthening the 125 rural banks as the vehicle for promoting savings mobilization and credit
delivery in the rural economy, while using the line of credit as an added incentive for participation in
the institution-building program [para. 51.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
5.   Factors Affecting Achievement of Major Objectives. Key factors affecting the project were: (i)
inability of the implementing agency to timely meet effectiveness conditionalities, thereby delaying
project start for nearly a year after credit approval; (ii) lack of interest by the larger commercial
banks to participate in the on-lending program, due in part to their traditional preference for trade
and industry subsectors, the high costs of project funds (as measured by the reference interest rate),
and the inherently high risks associated with agricultural credit; (iii) the low ceiling of Cedis 50.0
million (about US$50,000 at current exchange rate) on subloans, which effectively excluded larger
borrowers; and (iv) slowness of the implementing agency to develop the capacity for effective project
management during the initial two years [paras. 7 - 11].
6.   Project Sustainability. Some key project activities -- training of rural bank staff and directors,
capacity enhancement at the RFID for inspection management audits of the rural banks, capacity
enhancement at the ARB, and the development of rural cooperatives -- yielded benefits that have high
probability of being sustained, and for which the Borrower, through its post-credit operational plan,
has indicated a commitment for continuing support beyond the completion date. The project
succeeded in conducting a comprehensive diagnosis of the constraints faced by the rural banking
sector and developed an action plan for the restructuring of each rural bank. Although 55 of the 125
rural banks are currently rated satisfactory in accordance with the PNDC Law - 225, a majority of
rural banks (including some from among the "satisfactory" category) are weak, with shallow capital
base, poorly trained staff and weak internal controls [paras. 21, 22, 23].
7.   Proiect Costs, Financing and Timetable. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at
US$38 million, comprising the on-lending component (US$28.million), institution building (US$9
million), and the Rural Finance Inspection Department (US $1 million). The financing plan was: IDA
(US$20 million), GOG (US$1.1 million), PFIs (US$5 million), beneficiaries (US$3 million) and
various co-financiers (US$8.9 million). However, co-financing of US$8.9 million did not materialize
and project costs were accordingly adjusted by the amount of the expected co-financing, to US $29.1
million. By completion, the actual (latest estimate of) project costs was US$28.4 million, which was
consistent with the revised financing plan established at credit effectiveness [para. 6].
8.   Bank Performance. On the whole, Bank performance, from  project identification through
completion, was satisfactory. Overall, the Bank was responsive to problems identified during project
implementation, to which it responded adequately through increased supervision and consultation
with the Borrower [para. 12].
9.   Borrower Performance. Despite the initial problems encountered by the implementing agency,
overall assessment of Borrower's performance was satisfactory. The major implementation delays
occurred prior to the project mid-term review (MTR), after which the implementing agency emerged
as a cohesive team with shared vision and purpose [para. 13].



iii
10.  Project Outcomes. On the whole, the outcome of the project was satisfactory. The project
succeeded in channeling needed resources to the rural economy that helped, to a large extent, in
increasing smallholders' incomes and in spurring rural investments, especially of community-level
enterprises. More than 15,250 beneficiaries, consisting of 1,550 groups and 13,700 individuals
benefited from the estimated Cedis 9.8 billion (about US$19.8 million at the average project
exchange rate of Cedis 500.0). The main activities funded were poultry (Cedis 3.9 billion), trading
(Cedis 2.1 billion), crop production (Cedis 1.9 billion) and cocoa marketing and estate rehabilitation
(Cedis 1.2 billion). The average subloan size was Cedis 4.7 million for groups and Cedis 180,000 for
individuals, indicating that loans were not concentrated among a few beneficiaries, such as
parastatals. The project led to increased deposit mobilization and increased credit to the rural
economy that would not have otherwise occurred. Total deposit mobilized by the rural banks
increased from Cedis 4.6 billion in 1989 to Cedis 13.2 billion by 1994, the completion of the project.
Loans and advances by the rural banks nearly doubled, from Cedis 3.7 billion in 1991 to Cedis 6.8
billion in 1994, compared to the Cedis 1.7 billion of external project resources channeled through the
rural banks. The project strengthened key rural financial sector institutions: the RFID, in inspection
management audits of the rural banks; the ARB, in training of rural bank staff and directors; and
rural cooperatives, in inventory credit. Overall performance of technical assistance was satisfactory
[para. 20].
Summary of Findings. Future Operations and Lessons Learned
11.  Key Findings of Implementation Experience. The implementing agency was created specifically
for the project, and lacked experience with Bank procedures. It also experienced frequent changes in
senior staff.  Given this, expectations of its initial performance were optimistic, especially with
regard to timely compliance to effectiveness conditionalities. A delayed project start was the result.
The well-balanced combination of training and regular inspection and examination helped in the
successful use of technical assistance for strengthening rural financial institutions [paras. 11 & 22].
12.  Plans for Future Operations. The Borrower is committed to seeing the development of a strong
rural financial sector, the centerpiece of which is the rural banking system, and has therefore, in its
post-credit operational plan, identified the priority areas and the resources to ensure continuity in key
project activities. Because the project focused on strengthening sector institutions, it single greatest
contribution was that it helped to lay a good institutional foundation upon which future rural finance
operations can build. However, in order to maximize development impact and to effectively address
the needs of both formal and informal sector clients, follow-up rural finance interventions should be
preceded by comprehensive diagnosis of the constraints, issues and priorities for addressing the credit
needs of the rural economy [para. 24].
13.     Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons for future projects in the rural finance sector are:
(i) training of rural bank staff and directors, perhaps more than any single technical assistance
activity, has emerged as the most important ingredient for the development of a viable rural banking
sector; (ii) in order to be effective monitoring tools, inspection mangement audits of the rural banks
should be combined with regular feedback to the rural banks, with clear guidelines for correcting
observed deficiencies, a time frame for addressing exceptions noted, and possible sanctions for failing
to rectify deficiencies; and (iii) inventory credit has emerged as an innovative marketing tool crucial
in linking the formal and informal sectors [para. 25].






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
[CREDIT 2040-GH]
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives. Covenants and Financing
1.   Project Obiectives and Components. The objectives of the Rural Finance Project (RFP) were
to:
expand rural productive capacitv and employment by financing eligible subprojects in
crop production, livestock, fisheries, artisanal agro-processing, input supply, etc. through
eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs);
implement a financial restructuring program for the 125 rural banks and strengthen the
organizational and financial management of credit unions to enable them to become more
efficient in mobilizing savings and delivering short and medium-term credit, especially to
smallholders;
*  strengten the Association of Rural Banks (ARB) and the Credit Union Association
(CUA), two key non-governmental institutions active in promoting financial
intermediation in the informal financial sector;
* build an enhanced capacitv for rural credit appraisal among rural and national-level
banks;
- strengthen the capacity of the Rural Finance InsMection Department (RFID) of the Bank
of Ghana (BOG) to provide regular and systematic inspection management audits of the
rural banks to ensure their compliance with the Banking Laws and other prudential
guidelines; and
build local capacitv for research in rural finance policy within the BOG and other sector
institutions.
2.   To achieve these objectives, the project consisted of two distinct components: (i) an on-lendin,
wnw=, to support viable rural investments in the agricultural sector that would contribute to
rural income enhancement and employment; and (ii) an institution building component, comprising
mainly technical assistance for strengthening sectoral institutions to enable them to improve the
efficiency of rural financial intermediation. Specific institution building objectives were: restructuring
80 of the 125 rural banks; strengthening the ARB and the RFID and rationalizing their roles;
establishing capacity for rural credit appraisal among the PFIs; and establishing a pilot program of
rural cooperatives in the Upper West Region. In order to implement the project, the BOG
transformed its Rural Banking Department into a Rural Finance Inspection Department (RFID) and
gave it an expanded mandate for rural finance and the statutory responsibility for inspection oversight
of the rural banks, as opposed to the narrowly-defined objective of rural banking. Appointment of the
director of the newly created agency was a condition for project negotiation.



2
3.   Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. The legal covenants of the project and their status
are summarized in Table 8. Specific covenants for credit effectiveness were: signing of Subsidiary
Administration Agreement (SAA) between the Borrower and BOG; submitting to IDA the operational
policies and procedures for the RFID; signing a participatory agreement between the BOG and at
least two financial institutions; recruiting a Rural Finance Advisor and a Rural Bank Restructuring
Advisor; submitting to IDA the restructuring plans for the ADB and at least 20 of the 125 rural
banks; issuing deposit guarantees up to a limit of Cedis 100,000 per depositor for rural banks
depositors whose claims could not be met during the restructuring process; and, establishing a rural
bank Recapitalization Fund in the BOG with an initial sum in Cedis equivalent to US $300,000.
These covenants were largely met. Credit effectiveness was delayed for six months as the Borrower
needed more time to meet these conditions, and in particular for completing the restructuring plans
for the initial 20 rural banks.
4.   Covenants specific to sector policy and project implementation required the Borrower to:
abolish the Cedis 25,000 and 125,000 ceilings on shareholdings in the rural banks by individuals and
companies, respectively; limit shareholdings in particular rural banks by individuals and companies to
not more than 5 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of their share capital; abolish sectoral quotas
imposed on rural bank operations, while maintaining initially a minimum of 20 percent of rural bank
portfolio for lending to the agriculture sector; assign to special collection accounts all non-performing
loans of the rural banks and require the rural banks to make commensurate provisions for bad debts;
prepare a shortlist of consultants to provide loan support services to the rural banks; and complete the
nomination of representatives of BOG to the boards of rural banks on which BOG was not fully
represented. Other agreements required the Borrower's implementing agency to: prepare a
monitoring system for the operations of the rural banks; complete staff development plans for the
RFID; and recruit a Rural Bank Inspection Advisor. These covenants were also largely met. Based on
implementation experience, two key covenants were abolished or substantially modified: that limiting
shareholdings by individuals and companies in the rural banks to 5 and 10 percent, respectively was
abolished to allow the rural banks to increase their share capital; and that requiring the BOG to
appoint its representatives on the board of rural banks was repealed due to increasing conflict of
interests of BOG representatives in their dual roles as individual shareholders (in some cases) and as
officials of the oversight institution, the central bank.
5.   Evaluation of Project Obiectives. The project objectives, as stated in the SAR, were clear,
concise, and unambiguous. The project objectives were consistent with, and clearly reflected the
government's priorities existing at the time of appraisal: to extend financial sector reforms to the long
neglected rural finance sector; to strengthen the rural banking system comprising the 125 rural banks
as the key to increased rural savings and credit delivery; and to address sectoral policy constraints --
such as the requirement that at least 20 percent of rural bank portfolio be lent to agriculture -- that
had in the past, affected the efficiency of rural financial intermediation.
6.   Project Costs and Financing. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US $38.0
million, comprising the line of credit (US $28.0 million), institution building (US $9.0 million) and
the RFID (US $1.0 million). The financing plan was: IDA (US $20.0 million), Government (US $1.1
million) the PFIs (US $5.0 million), Beneficiaries (US $3.0 million), and Co-financiers, notably
CIDA and USAID (US $8.9 million). However, by project effectiveness, no firm commitment had
been made by these agencies to co-finance the project, and the total cost was reduced by the amount
of the unrealized co-financing. At effectiveness, the revised project cost was therefore US $29.1
million. By completion, the total actual (latest estimate of) project cost was US $28.4 million,



3
consisting of IDA (US $20.4 million), GOG (US $1.1 million), PFIs (US $3.9 million), and
Beneficiaries (US$ 2.9 million), which was consistent with the revised financing plan established at
credit effectiveness. Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements are in Table 4. The estimated and
actual project costs are in Table 7A, with the estimated and actual financing plans in Table 7B.
Major Factors Affecting Project Performance
7.   Overview. The major factors affecting the project were: (i) delayed project start-up as the
Borrower took nine months to meet conditionalities for effectiveness; (ii) lack of interest by the
national-level commercial banks; (iii) the low ceiling on subloans, which effectively led to the
exclusion of larger borrowers from participating in the project; and (iv) the weak capacity of the
RFID, the implementing agency. Factors (i) and (iv) were largely under the control of the Borrower;
factors (ii) and (iii) were problems inherent in the design of the project that were addressed during
the Mid-Term Review (MTR) and through subsequent amendments to the Credit Agreement.
8.   Delays in Achieving Credit Effectiveness. The credit was approved on July 28, 1989, but it
did not become effective until April 26, 1990. Seven effectiveness conditionalities were stipulated in
Sections 6.01 (a) to (g) of the Development Credit Agreement (see Table 8). Most of these conditions
were satisfied not long after credit approval. The major delay was caused by Section 6.01 (e) which
required the Borrower to submit, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, the financial restructuring plans
for at least 20 of the rural banks. The RFID was slow in assembling a team of consultants to prepare
the restructuring plans for the initial set of 20 rural banks, thereby delaying credit effectiveness for
nearly nine months. Part of the reason was that the RFID itself had just been established and, lacking
the experience and critical mass of staff, was therefore not fully operational at this stage to deal
effectively with these conditionalities.
9.   Lack of Interest by Larger Commercial Banks. The major commercial banks such as Barclays
Bank, Standard Chartered Bank (SCB) and Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) did not participate, to a
significant degree, in the project, a risk that had been identified during project preparation. There
were two main reasons for the low level of commercial bank participation. Firstly, the major
commercial banks have traditionally focused on the trade and industry subsectors, with a relatively
small share of their overall portfolio going to agriculture, given the high administrative costs of such
lending, the risks inherent in rainfed agriculture, and the nature of clients (small, with little or no
collateral, and widely dispersed over a large geographical area). Secondly, the commercial banks paid
little or no interests on current accounts, which constituted a major source of investment funds, and
therefore considered the reference interest rate (RIR) charged on project funds, which averaged 18
percent, as representing an unacceptably high costs of funds. Conversely, the rural banks depended
largely on savings mobilized as the major source of investment funds. Since rates charged on these
saving deposits averaged 16 to 18 percent, the average RIR of 18 percent represented an acceptable
cost of funds and provided a spread of between 10 to 12 percent to the rural bank, given the on-
lending rate of 26 - 30 percent. The availability of external resources also gave the rural banks more
flexibility in allocating credit and in expanding their client base. By completion, the Cedis 9.8 billion
disbursed was distributed as follows: Barclays Bank (0.0 percent), SCB (0.6 percent), GCB (1.0
percent), the Export Finance Company (6.3 percent) compared to the rural banks (18.0 percent) and
the ADB (74.1 percent).
10.  Low Ceiling on Subloans. The project established a ceiling of Cedis 50.0 million (about US
$50,000 at the current exchange rate) on subloans in an effort to prevent the crowding out of small
borrowers by larger, private sector firms and parastatals. The low ceiling effectively directed credit



4
to specific size (smaller) operations and denied access to larger enterprises. The exclusion of larger
borrowers, coupled with the small number of rural banks participating at any one time, resulted in
slbw disbursement of the line of credit: by the original closing date of December 31, 1992, only 45
percent of the line of credit of US $15.0 million had been disbursed. The slow disbursement
coincided with increasing demand for funds from produce marketers, input supplier and poultry
producers who had benefited from the agricultural reforms initiated under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2345-GH). The Development Credit Agreement was therefore amended,
removing the ceiling on subloans, thereby allowing individual banks to independently set their own
loan limit, based on the merits of the application, the bank's own prudential guidelines, and the
assessment of risks associated with the potential investment.
11. Weak Capacity of Project Implementing Agency. The Bank was over optimistic in its
estimation of the time it would take the project implementing agency -- itself established under the
project -- to emerge as an effective implementing unit. The RFID had no prior experience
implementing Bank projects, and though its first director was selected because of his knowledge of
Bank procedures, his tenure was relatively short, about a year. There was, in general, a high
turnover in the senior management of the implementing agency, with four directors heading the
agency in as many years. Although the high turnover itself was due to the restructuring underway
within the BOG, it nevertheless affected the effectiveness of the unit, especially the continuity needed
to strengthen the newly created agency. The RFID was also staffed by employees transferred from
other departments of the BOG, and it therefore took some time for the unit to emerge as a team, a
situation exacerbated by the fact that most of the training and technical assistance programs aimed at
strengthening this capacity, were also delayed. For example, it took nearly two years for the RFID to
procure computers needed for the processing of numerous small applications submitted by the rural
banks, relegating the unit to the manual processing of applications that was highly inefficient. It was
therefore not uncommon to have delays of 3 to 6 months, from the time applications were received by
the RFID and to the time the loan was approved and the account of the rural bank credited with the
proceeds. With experience, performance of the RFID improved after the MTR, especially in loan
administration and inspection management audits of the rural banks, such that by project completion,
the RFID had established the capacity to inspect all 125 rural banks at least once a year, to deal more
expeditiously with procurement matters, and to reduce loan processing time to 2 to 3 weeks.
Overall Project Implementation Performance
12.     Overview. The overall project performance can be regarded as satisfactory as the credit line
of US $15.0 million was fully disbursed, albeit two additional years being needed for project
completion; 55 of the 125 rural banks could be rated as satisfactory, in terms of capital adequacy; the
ARB has established the capacity to provide a wide range of services to member banks, including
training, management information system and advisory services; the RFID has established the
capacity for regular inspection and examination of the rural banks; and the pilot program in rural
cooperatives has demonstrated that rural groups can acquire the technical know-how to profitably
operate rural enterprises. However, the lack of co-financing prevented implementation of activities to
strengthen credit unions.
13.     On-Lending Component. The project on-lent, over a five year period, an estimated Cedis
9.8 billion (about US $19.8 million at the average project exchange rate of Cedis 500.0) for financing
investments that benefited an estimated 15,250 individuals and groups. (Details of subprojects
financed under the credit are in Tables I & 2 of Part III). A total of Cedis 7.3 billion (75 percent)
went to 1,550 groups (farmer associations, cooperatives, traders and producers associations) while



5
Cedis 2.5 billion (25 percent) was utilized by 13,700 individual beneficiaries. The average loan size
was Cedis 180,000 for individuals and Cedis 4.7 million for groups, indicating that a large number of
smaller beneficiaries benefited and that the subprojects were not skewed towards a few groups or
individuals. Of important note is that major beneficiary groups were mainly rural cooperative
societies and associations and not large government-owned parastatals. The activities of group
beneficiaries were also directly linked to the rural economy, in terms of marketing of inputs or
purchasing commodities produced by smaller outgrowers. Distribution of subloans by activity was as
follows: poultry (Cedis 3.9 billion), trading (Cedis 2.1 billion), crop production (Cedis 1.9 billion)
and cocoa marketing and estate rehabilitation (Cedis 1.2 billion). Other activities supported were
livestock, fisheries, oil palm, cottage industries and cotton. About 2,500 or 18.0 percent of the
13,700 individual beneficiaries were women who utilized 16.0 percent of the Cedis 2.5 billion
disbursed. The number of female beneficiaries, though representing a small proportion of the total,
shows a significant increase over the number of female beneficiaries (248 in all) that had accessed the
program prior to project mid-term review. Given the continuing low rate of female participation, it is
important to further address the specific needs of such beneficiaries during future project preparation
in light of the different sets of constraints they face. In general, access by women would be limited
by factors such as the lack of land ownership and/or acceptable collateral.
14.  The project helped to increase savings mobilization, mainly from small, first time rural clients
who were encouraged to open accounts with the rural banks as a condition for participating in the on-
lending program, and who have continued to maintain these accounts long after the end of their
commitments to the rural banks. The number of rural depositors has increased steadily since 1989,
with total deposit mobilized increasing from Cedis 4.6 billion in 1989 -- a year before project
effectiveness -- to Cedis 13.2 billion in 1994, with the 26 participating rural banks accounting for
37.0 percent of the total deposits mobilized in 1994. The total loans and advances from the rural
banks nearly doubled, from Cedis 3.7 billion in 1991, to Cedis 6.8 billion in 1994, compared to
project resources of Cedis 1.7 billion channeled through the rural banks during the past five years,
equivalent to about Cedis 340.0 million per annum.
15.  Institution Building Component. Overall, performance of the institution building component
was satisfactory. A review of specific subcomponents is given below:
Financial Restructuring of the Rural Banks.  Achievement of this objective was
satisfactory. Preparation of an acceptable financial restructuring plan for 20 rural
banks delayed project implementation by six months. The financial restructuring of
rural banks consisted of three integrated steps: (i) diagnosis, including assessment of
the financial and prudential status of each rural bank; (ii) an action plan establishing
a monitoring system for performance targets such as the rate of deposit mobilization
and loan recovery ratios; and (iii) skills development of staff and management to
ensure attainment of these targets. Specific target of the project was to complete
restructuring of 80 of the 125 rural banks. However, by completion, only 55 rural
banks (44 percent) were rated satisfactory by the BOG, 51 banks (41 percent) were
rated as less than satisfactory (mediocre or weak), and 19 banks (15 percent) were
rated as distressed. While on face value this may represent reasonable achievements --
only two rural banks were rated satisfactory at project effectiveness -- in reality, the
rural banks are still weak. The official classification of "satisfactory" is rather
narrow, and only takes into account achievement of capital adequacy of 6 percent of
the banks' risks assets. Therefore, banks rated as "satisfactory" could still be
characterized by weak management, weak internal controls and a high proportion of



6
non-performing loans. The detailed diagnosis of the rural banking system, which was
undertaken after credit effectiveness, revealed, among other things, that these banks
were in worse shape that initially believed. Had the diagnosis been undertaken as part
of project preparation, it would have influenced the scope and nature of the technical
assistance program for the rural banks. The single most important accomplishment of
the restructuring program has been that it helped to lay a foundation for subsequent
operations to continue with the strengthening of the rural banking system.
Strengthenin, the Association of Rural Banks. The outcome of this component was
satisfactory. The project enabled the ARB to firmly establish the capacity for
developing and managing the training program for the rural banks, that has benefited
an estimated 2,000 staff over the past five years. More importantly, the ARB has
taken concrete steps to ensure sustainability of these activities, including: (i)
decentralization of the training program to the regional chapters of the association in
order to reduce costs, expand coverage to member banks and increase local
ownership; (ii) training of trainers, which utilizes managers and directors from the
better rural banks to assist in the training of managers and staff of weaker rural
banks; and (iii) increasing cost recovery: gradually increasing the fees charged the
individual rural banks for training services so that in the near future these banks
would eventually pay the full costs of these services. From a fledgling organization,
the ARB has emerged as a strong association with permanent headquarters and
Secretariat and, is planing to undertake, with the support of the BOG, a study that
would help it to clearly define its relationship as an apex institution for the rural
banks.
Strengthening Capacity for Rural Bank Examination. Performance of this component
was satisfactory. However, the project design was generally too optimistic as to how
quickly the RFID, itself created by the project, could evolve into an effective
implementing agency, given its expanded mandate. The RFID has so far overcome
the initial teething problems, and has establish good capacity for inspection
management audits. By project completion, all the 125 rural banks are being visited
at least once a year by the RFID -- a feat not possible only two years ago. A total of
120 staff, including some from other departments of the BOG and from the PFIs,
have benefited from local training while 16 staff have participated in various external
training, including opportunities to witness successful examples of rural banking in
the Philippines and the Netherlands.
Capacity for Rural Credit Appraisal. The outcomes of this component was
unsatisfactory. The project provided a total of 96 man-months of consultancy to the
rural banks for credit appraisal and the provision of 100 motorbikes for logistics to
enable rural banks to focus on developing and investing in small investments at the
community-level, thereby providing important linkages to downstream operations.
Similarly, the project also provided for the hiring of 60 project officers to be based
within the larger commercial banks who would also help these commercial banks,
traditionally lukewarm to agriculture sector lending, to expand the volume of their
sector portfolio. These programs were not implemented and most of the banks
interviewed during the ICR process reported that they had no knowledge concerning
this aspect of the project.  It is therefore conceivable that it may have been
overlooked as the RFID became inundated with the requirements of the larger, more



7
visible components of the projects such as the on-lending program and rural bank
restructuring activities.
Strengthening Rural Cooperatives. Performance of this component was rated
satisfactory. The pilot program was conceptualized to test the basic hypothesis that
efficiency of rural financial intermediation could be enhanced by organizing rural
groups to enable them to achieve the desired economies of scale in their operations.
The pilot program of rural cooperatives in the Upper West Region tested and
substantiated this hypothesis. The inventory credit program developed under the pilot
has emerged as a simple but innovative instrument for not only promoting rural
financial intermediation, but also for providing important linkages between the formal
and informal financial sectors. The program has benefited more than 750 farm
families through community-level agricultural cooperatives that are profitable and that
are contributing to enhancing the incomes of these families. The success of this
scheme has led to its widespread adoption in other parts of the country, especially by
the ADB in maize marketing in the Ashanti and Brong-Ahafo Regions with annual
gross sales exceeding Cedis 2.0 billion.
Strengthening the CUA.  This component was dropped due to the lack of co-
financing from USAID and CIDA.
16.     Technical Assistance Financed under the Project. The implementation of technical assistance
provided in support of project objectives was satisfactory. Technical assistance enabled the Borrower
to procure the services of advisors in rural bank restructuring, inspection and management who
worked with counterparts from the BOG. The scope of the technical assistance program with the
rural banks included: preparing a restructuring plan for the rural banks; preparing guidelines for
rural bank inspection management audits; preparing management information systems for the rural
banks; identifying skills gaps for training of BOG and rural bank staff; and preparing the initial plans
for the liquidation of the 19 distressed rural banks.
17.     Studies Financed under the Project. The studies financed under the project had direct
relevance for designing the pilot program in rural cooperatives in the Upper West and in putting into
a place a program for monitoring and evaluation their impacts. All studies were completed in a timely
manner and their objectives were met. The first five of the studies provided a diagnosis of the rural
cooperative subsector, the strategy for developing pilots and the impact analysis of these pilots. The
sixth study, a review of the rural financial sector, was an important input into the broader Ghana
Financial Sector Review, the latter report helping to identify the key constraints, priorities and future
strategies for strengthening the financial sector.
Project Sustainability
18.     Institution Strengthening. Most of the benefits of institution building appear sustainable.
These include: capacity enhancement of the RFID to provide regular inspection and examination of
the rural banks; training of rural bank staff and directors; and inventory credit. Training: The impact
of the training program on rural bank performance has been the most visible aspect of the institution
building efforts in the rural finance sector. Sustainability is encouraged by the fact that rural banks
are now increasingly paying a larger share of training costs and to budget for such programs in their
annual work plans, based on identified skills gaps. Other indicators of sustainability are the training
of trainers program, which operates within the regional chapters of the ARB and the decentralization



8
of training to the regional chapters. Rural bank examination and inspection. Sustainability is
enhanced by the fact that the BOG is committed to supporting the RFID in these activities as detailed
in the action plan for the post-credit operational phase of the project. Rural cooperatives. Pilot
cooperatives established under the project have evolved into profitable rural enterprises, sustainable
aspects of which include local ownership through strong grassroots organizations trained to apply
modern business principles in managing these cooperatives.
19.      Rural banks. Loan recovery rates, profitability and the subsidy dependence are three criteria
used to assess the sustainability of the rural banks, and in particular, to measure the extent of subsidy
dependence among the 26 rural banks utilizing project resources. Loan recovery: rural banks are, in
general, saddled with huge non-performing loans, rising overdues and weak internal control
mechanisms increase their vulnerability to internal fraud. The average recovery rate has declined for
all rural banks, from 70.0 percent in 1986 to only 59.0 percent in 1994. The deterioration is
attributed to the rapid expansion of rural banks through the creation of agencies and deposit
mobilization centers. With few and poorly trained staff and with little or no capacity for project
appraisal, the rapid move to create agencies have left most rural banks highly susceptible to
fraudulent acts by branch managers who are often loosely supervised by the head office. Performance
was better among the 55 rural banks rated as satisfactory, with 73 percent recovery rate, compared to
only 44.0 percent for the 51 banks rated as either mediocre or weak. Profitability: Most rural banks
continue to make inadequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts, thereby overstating their
profitability: 96 of the 106 active rural banks made inadequate provisions for bad debts amounting to
Cedis 469.8 million in 1994. Profits among the 26 participating rural banks was higher, but varied
widely, ranging from Cedis 0.2 million to Cedis 49.0 million in 1993 (the last year for which
comprehensive data is available).
20.      Subsidy Dependence. Resources to the rural banks were subsidized in two ways: (i) through
the low interest rate on project funds, which averaged below the rate rural banks paid on term
deposits; and (ii) technical assistance mainly for training, which was largely a grant. Project
resources were on-lent at a RIR that was lower than the rate on term deposits of the rural banks.
Unlike the larger commercial banks, rural banks do not participate in the interbank lending program
of the central bank and they therefore depend largely on savings mobilized for investments. The
relevant cost of funds to the rural banks was therefore the interest paid on these term  deposits.
During the past five years, the rate on term deposits which averaged between 18.0 and 22.0 percent,
compared to the average project RIR of 18.5 percent. Technical assistance to the rural banks was
largely a grant, averaging Cedis 8.4 million per annum per rural bank over the life of the project.
The extent to which subsidized resources affect the sustainability of the participating rural banks is
measured by the subsidy dependence index (SDI)'. The estimated SDIs are in Table 3, Annex III and
they show, among other things, the widely varying level of capacity among the rural banks. Six of
the 26 banks (Nyakrom, Akyempim, Nsoatreman, Braka-Breman, Nwabiagya and Bosomtwe) had
negative SDIs, indicating that, not only have these banks achieved fully an acceptable level of
1 The Subsidy Dependence Index (Yaron, 1992) can be represented as S = A(m - c) + [(E * m) - P] + K, where S is the
value of annual subsidy received by the PFI, A is the average concessional borrowed funds outstanding, m is the interest
rate the PFI would have paid for borrowed funds in the absence of the line of credit, c is the weighted average concessional
interest rate, E is the average annual equity, P is before tax profit, adjusted for provisions for bad debts, and K is catchall
for all other subsidy, in this case, the average annual value of technical assistance. The SDI ratio is estimated as
SDI = S / (LP *i), where LP is the average outstanding loan portfolio of the PFI and i is the weighted average interest
rate earned on the loan portfolio. An SDI of zero and less indicates sustainability while positive and increasing SDIs show
correspondingly increasing level of dependency.



9
sustainability, but that their annual profits exceeded the value of any subsidy (including technical
assistance). Fourteen banks had positive, but low SDIs while seven banks had SDIs in excess of 50
percent, indicative of the level of higher degree of dependency (low sustainability). One implication
of these results are that classification of rural banks on the basis of satisfactory and unsatisfactory
does not show the true state of these banks, as banks rated satisfactory may not be sustainable in the
true sense of the word.
Bank Performance
21.  Bank performance, from  project identification through completion, was, on the whole,
satisfactory. The Bank responded quickly to the slow implementation performance, such as that
described in para. 11 above, by increasing field supervision and the level of dialogue with the
Borrower. The Bank also responded by employing the appropriate skills mix in addressing specific
problems, as in inspection management audits (Table 11). Bank performance was complemented by
strong support from the Resident Mission which provided advice to the implementing agency on
procurement and other related matters and helped to maintain continuity in policy dialogue with the
Borrower.
Borrower Performance
22.  On the whole, Borrower's performance was also satisfactory. The project was consistent with
the Borrower's objective of strengthening rural financial intermediation and putting the rural banking
system on sound financial, technical and institutional footing. The project therefore had strong
Borrower commitment and ownership. Prior to the project, the Borrower had implemented substantial
policy and institutional reforms at the macro-level, including financial sector reforms, which helped
to provide an enabling institutional and policy environment for project implementation. However, at
the implementing agency level, there were practical problems in translating strong Borrower
commitment into effective implementation performance: lack of prior experience in implementing
Bank projects, high turnover in senior management, delays in procurement of vehicles and computers
critical to carrying out statutory functions of the department such as inspection and examination.
However, the RFID was able to transcend the earlier problems, such that by the mid-term review, it
had developed significant capacity for project implementation.
Overall Assessment of Project Outcome
23.  Based on implementation performance, achievement of physical targets set in the SAR,
sustainability of key project benefits, and the Borrower's action plan for the post-operational phase of
the project, outcome of the project is satisfactory. By financing eligible subprojects in the rural
economy, the project accomplished a key objective of expanding productive capacity and employment
in agriculture. It was also successful in improving the efficiency of financial sector institutions.
Assessment of outcome of specific project components is as follows: On-Lending: satisfactory,
despite the initial implementation delays. Institution building: satisfactory, but with varying degrees
of success in specific subcomponents as noted: (i) financial restructuring of the rural banks --
satisfactory, but with low probability of sustainability; (ii) strengthening of the ARB -- highly
satisfactory; (iii) enhancing capacity for rural credit appraisal -- unsatisfactory; (iv) strengthening
RFID capacity for inspection management audits -- satisfactory; and (v) strengthening rural
cooperatives -- highly satisfactory.



10
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
24.  Future Operations. GOG has indicated, through its post-project operational plan, a strong
commitment to continuing support for key project activities beyond the closing date. An action plan
and the resources committed for these priority areas are contained in Appendix B to the ICR.
Specifically, the Borrower would continue with the following project activities: training of rural bank
staff and directors through the RFID; regular rural bank examination and inspection through the
RFID; development of rural cooperatives; and expanding rural investments through the recycling of
repayments under the line of credit component through the PFIs. However, based on project
implementation experience, comprehensive diagnosis of the rural finance sector is needed to inform
the design and scope of future interventions. Accordingly, follow-up rural finance operations should
be preceded by broad consultation, studies and in-depth analysis in order to better understand the
sector and to better target proposed interventions. The Bank's Financial Sector Review (FY95)
includes an analysis of rural finance issues.  Another step in this direction is the ongoing
collaborative sector work with the Borrower on Rural Institutions.
25.       Key Lessons Learned.  The key lessons learned from  project implementation are: (i)
training of rural bank staff and directors is a key factor in the development of viable rural banks as it
empowers management to adapt more innovative instruments and approaches to deposit mobilization,
credit delivery and loan recovery; (ii) rural banks largely depend on savings mobilized for
investments; commercial banks, on the other hand, use deposits on which they pay little or no
interests, and which they invest in less risky activities in trade and industry. In determining the RIR
for an untargeted credit line, it is important to take these factors into account to ensure that all banks
can participate; (iii) in order to be effective monitoring tools, inspection mangement audits of the
rural banks should be combined with regular feedback to the rural banks, with clear guidelines for
correcting observed deficiencies, a time frame for addressing exceptions noted, and possible sanctions
for failing to rectify deficiencies; (iv) as demonstrated by the ARB, the emergence of a strong apex
institution for the rural banks is vital to the long-term viability of these banks as it provides a
sustainable, non-governmental alternative to the provision of vital services (training, financial
advisory and promotional); government's role should be limited to its statutory responsibilities of
inspection management audits and examination; (v) inventory credit has emerged as an innovative
marketing tool crucial in linking the formal and informal sectors; and (vi) rural cooperatives are more
viable if they are organized as rural businesses with profits, instead of subsidy, as the bottomline of
their operations. Such rural cooperatives, when viable, provide the critical linkage between the
formal and informal sectors and the initial technical assistance for training such groups in modern
business management has high returns.



-11-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Substantial         Partial            Negligible        Not Applicable
A. Achievement of Objectives                 (1)              (1)                 (1)                   (1)
Macro policies                                             [2]                 [2] IE
Sector policies                           el               E                      l                  E
Fiumncial objectives                      [l                                                         [2]
Institutional development                                  [                    5                    I]1
Physical objectives                                                            E] I  E               E
Poverty alleviation                                                             El
Gender issues                                              E                   E                     IA
Other social objectives                    Q               E                    E                    IA
Environmental objectives                  f                E                    E                    IA
Public sector management                                   E                    E                    El
Private sector development                I                E                    E                    E
Likely          Unlikely           Uncertain
B. Project sustabnablilty                    (1)              (1)                  (1)
Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory         Deficient
C. Bank Performance                          (1)              (I)                  (1)
Identification                                             E l                 E]
Prepadtion assistance                                      El                  El 
Apprisal                                  EI                                   El
Supervision                               E                IA 
Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory         Deficient
D. Borrower performance                      (1)              (1)                 (1)
Identification                            E                IA                  E
Implernentation                            O               IA                  E
Covenant compliance                       E                IA                  E
Opertion (if applicable)                   E                E                   E
Highly                                                    Highly
Satisfactory     Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory       Unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcomes                    (1)              (1)                 (1)                   (1)
IA                                  El                    El



-12-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose             Approval       Status
Preceding Operations:
1. Cr. 1911-GH & 19 11-1,    Address fundamental and urgent  1988 &   Completed,
US$ 100.Om & $6.6m        problems of the financial sector   1989  ICR of June
Financial Sector Adjust I                                          1994
& Supplement
2. Cr. 1996-GH, US$30.Om     Support small & medium
SME Development           entrepreneurs in the private  1989       Completed
sector
Following Operations:
3. Cr. 2180-GH, US$16.5m
Agric. Diversification    Develop non-cocoa tree crops    1991     On-going
and horticultural crops
4. Cr. 2247-GH, US$ 22.Om    Rationalize agricultural research  1991  On-going
National Agric. Research  resources
5. Cr. 2345-GH, US$80.Om     Reform agric. policy to       1992       On-going
Agric Sector Adj         strengthen sector coordination
Cr. 2245-1-GH; US $5.74   and management               1994       On-going
AGSAC supplement         Supplement to agric. policy
reforms
6.  Cr. 2346-GH, US $30.4    Provide more efficient extension  1992   On-going
Nat Agric. Extension     services
7.  Cr. 2426-GH, US $18.1 m   Support national resource and    1992   On-going
Env. Resources Mngt      env. planning and mngt.
8.  Cr. 2441-GH, US $22.5m   Increase livestock production  1993      On-going
National Livestock Services  and services
9. Cr. 2555-GH; US$21.5m     Provide development of rural    1993     On-going
Agric. Sector Inv. Project   infrastructure in support of
development



-13-
Table 3: Project Timetable
|             | I Date actual/
Steps in project cycle   Date planned  |  Revised   |  latest est.
Identification (EPS)
Preparation                11/06/87       04/02/88      04/02/88
Appraisal                  10/12/88       10/12/88      10/12/88
Negotiations               02/20/89      03/13//89      02/13/89
Board Presentation         03/28/89       06/14/89      06/14/89
Signing                   07/28/89          n.a.        07/28/89
Effectiveness              04/28/89         n.a.        07/28/89
Mid-Term Review            12/31/91       06/24/92      06/24/92
Project Completion         04/30/93       04/30/94      04/30/95
Credit Closing             12/31/92       12/31/93      12/31/94



- 14 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year             FY90    FY91    FY92         FY93    FY94   FY95 (Ii)
Appraisal Estimate            1.6      6.0       7.0       5.4
Cumulative                    1.6      7.6      14.6      20.0
Actual (a)                    0.0      3.2       3.7       7.3       5.2        1.0
Cumulative                    0.0      3.2       6.9       14.2     19.4       20.4
Actual as % of Estimate       0.0      42.0     47.0      71.0      96.0       102.0
Date of Final Disbursement: April 30, 1995
(a) Credit was extended for two years beyond the original closing date of December 31, 1992.
(b) For first half of FY95 only, i.e., July I to December 31, 1994.



-15-
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page 1 of 2
l1. Key lInplemnentation
Indicators in SAR                   Expected/Estimnated        Actual at Project Completion
I. Institution Buildingy
(A) Financial Restructuring Rural  (i) Restr-ucturing of 125 rural   All 125 rural banks completed
l Banks                       banks which: a) have adequate  diagnostics phase of financial
capital base; b) make profits;   restructuring and action plans were
c) have sound financial control  prepared, but only 55 banks satisfied
mechanisms; d) have low     capital adequacy requirements under
arrears/high recovery; e) have   the Banking Law 225, 56 are weak
good mechanisms for appraisal  and 19 are distressed. The distressed
and supervision of loan     banks have been shut down, pending
portfolios.                 liquidation. However, among the 106
operating rural banks, sound financial
control is lacking. Little capacity for
appraisal and loan supervision exists.
Internal control mechanisms not in
place in most banks. Under
provisioning for bad debts among 96
of 106 rural banks based on 1994
management audit reports.
(B) Strengthening the Association  Emergence of an apex that has  ARB has established an excellent
of Rural Banks (ARB)        sound financial base, provides   program for training staff and
sound program and services to  directors of rural banks. Sustainability
members including public    of the program rated high due to local
relations, financial        ownership and increased subscription
management and training.    from member banks. ARB now has a
permanent head office and Secretariat
and undertakes good PR with BOG on
behalf of the member banks. Apex
institution study planned for FY96.
C. Strengthening Credit Union  Emergence of a CUA that has   Component dropped due to lack of co-
Association (CUA)           sound financial base, is    financing.
respected by its members, and
provides sound technical
advice and program for
members.



-16-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Page 2 of 2
1. Key huplementation
Indicators in SAR                   Expected/Estimated          Actual at Project Completion
1. Institutional Building (cont'd):
D. Strengthening the RFID, Bank   Emergence of strong        Reorganization and staffing of RFID
of Ghana                     department with trained staff   completed and ample logistics
and logistics to provide regular  provided. Several staff have
inspection management audits   completed both local (120 staff) and
of the rural banks and to assist  external (16 staff) training. RFID has
in the development of rural  developed capacity to provide regular
finance policy.              examination of all 125 rural banks at
least once a year.
E. Strengthening of Rural       Establishment of three (3)   Three FSCCs established as Pilots in
Cooperatives under a Pilot     financially and institutionally   the Upper West with over 750 farm
Program in the Upper West       viable Farmer Service        families as members. FSCCs
Region                          Cooperative Centers (FSCCs)   diversifying into shea brokering and
that provide good services to    processing in order to spread risks
members and that would      from single crop. Use of inventory
establish economies of scale in  credit as innovative tool in marketing
inventory credit.            of QPM maize. Program has received
positive evaluation from local officials
for its impact on poverty alleviation
in the resource-poor areas of the
Upper West.
II. Line of Credit              Lending of US $20.0 million    Total line of credit filly disbursed,
equivalent, including US $15.0  equivalent in local currency of Cedis
million of IDA resources for    9.8 billion to finance crop production,
eligible subprojects in the  marketing, processing, transport and
agriculture sector.          other rural industries with more than
1,550 groups and 13,700 individuals
benefited. Estimated Cedis 1.7 billion
channeled through 26 participating
rural banks.



-17-
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                  Purpose            Status                Impact of Study
1. Development of       To help prepare a pilot  Completed   The study enabled the Department of
Farmer Cooperatives   program for assisting      1989      Cooperative (DOC), through an NGO, to
rural cooperative                   establish a Pilot Program of Rural
societies in becoming               Cooperation in three villages in the Upper
financially viable and              West Region.
sustainable
2. Impact Study - Farmer   Evaluate the impact of    Completed    Study assessed the impact of the pilot on
Cooperatives          the pilot program on    1992         individual groups and farm households and
beneficiary villages in             enabled the DOC to better design its
the Upper West Region               technical assistance to these cooperatives.
3. Regular Monitoring and  To monitor key variables  Regular  Regular monitoring provided crucial
Evaluation Studies    related to the target   Quarterly    information to DOC and NGO on the
group of cooperatives,    Report    financial viability of the pilots and the
such as farm cash flow,             impact of technical assistance. Enabled
cost recovery, increased            implementing agency to develop inventory
credit worthiness of                credit scheme for servicing members.
members, and linkage
with formal financial
sector.
4. Diversification Study    Study to diversify the  Completed    Study led to creation of diversified FSCCs
of FSCCs              revenue base of the    1992         through creation of Processing Service
FSCCs.                              Centers (PSCs) for sheanut, cowpeas and
grains. PSCs fully operational for all three
FSCCs.
5. Review of the         Conduct detailed review   Completed    Study completed but impact unknown.
Cooperative College   of the existing program    1993      Major recommendations not implemented.
for training of
cooperatives and
recommend changes
6. Rural Finance Sector    Conduct a thorough   Completed    Results of study used to establish priorities
Review                review of the rural     1994         for future interventions in the rural finance
finance sector as an input          sector, especially in linking the formal and
into the Ghana Financial            informal sectors. Results would be used in
Sector Review.                      designing rural finance component of an
integrated Subsector lending program in
Ghana.



-18-
Table 7A:  Project Costs by Category
Appraisal estimates             Actual/latest estimates
(US $M)                          (US $M)
Local      Foreign               Local       Foreign
Category/item                                      costs      costs       Total      costs      costs       Total
1. On-Lending                                      8.0         15.0       23.0       6.8         15.2       22.0
II. Institutional Building:                        2.5        2.5          5.0       3.3        2.1         5.4
(a) Restructuring of rural banks                 1.3        0.5         0.8        2.1        0.7        2.8
(b) Association of Rural Banks (ARB)             0.3        0.7         1.0        0.5        0.5         1.0
(c) Rural credit appraisal                       0.5        0.3         0.8        0.1        0.0        0.1
(d) Rural banks examination                      0.3        0.7         1.0        0.4        0.6         1.0
(e) Rural cooperatives                           0.1        0.3         0.4        0.2        0.3        0.5
III. Rural Finance Inspection Department           0.3         0.7         1.0       0.4         0.6        1.0
Total                                              10.8        18.3       29.1       10.5        17.9       28.4



-19-
Table 7B:       Project Financing
Appraisal estimate                          Actual/latest estimate (a)
Source                                    (US$ Million)                                   (US$ Million)
Local           Foreign                         Local          Foreign
costs           costs           Total           costs           costs          Total
IDA                        1.4             18.6           20.0            2.5             17.9            20.4
GOG                        1.1            -                1.1             1.2                             1.2
Participating Banks       5.0                             5.0             3.9                             3.9
Beneficiaries             3.0             -               3.0             2.9                             2.9
Total Project              10.5            18.6           29.1             10.5            17.9           28.4
(a) Actual as at December 31, 1994.
Note: Project cost reduced by US $8.9 million due to unrealized co-financing from USAID and CIDA.



-20-
Table 8:    Status of Legal Covenants
Page I of 2
Agreement/           Covenant    Present            Fulfillment Date
Section              Type          Status    Original   Revised            Description of Covenant                                          Comments
Project Agreement (PA)/
2.08(a)             2, 12           C       09/30/89                     Abolition of the Cedis 25,000 and Cedis 125,000 ceiling on   Done
shareholdings in rural banks by individuals and companies,
respectively.
2.08 (b)              2, 12          C        09/30/89      09/30/89      Limiting shareholdings in particular RBs by individuals and    Done; lifted in June 1990 to allow
companies to not more than 5% and 10%. respectively, of    equity mobilization under
the share capital.                                    restructuring program.
2.09 (a)             2, 3, 5        CP        09/30/89                    Requirement that rural banks assign all non-performing  Collection agencies not in existence
loans to special collection accounts and make commensurate  so no bad loans assigned; about 96
provisions for bad debts.                              rural banks not making adequate
provisions in 1994.
2.09 (b)              2. 12         CD        09/30/89       12/31/90     Abolition of sectoral quotas imposed on rural banks' lending   Done in December 1990.
operations, while maintaining initially a minimum of 20%
for agriculture.
2.11                  5            C        09/30/89      09/30/89       Preparation of a shortlist of firms by BOG for purposes of    Short list prepared by RFID in
providing loan support services to RBs.                December 1990.
2.13                5, 12           C       12/31/89                     Nomination by BOG of its representative on the Boards of    BOG has established a new policy of
RBs in which BOG is not represented.                  removing its staff from the Boards of
rural banks to avoid conflict of
interest
2.14 (a)            1I 5, 9          C        12/31/89                    Preparation by BOG of a monitoring system              Done
of the rural finance operations of all banks, including
operations under this project.
2.14 (b)              5, 10          C        12/31/89       12/31/89     Completion by BOG of a staff development program for the   Done.
RFIDby December31, 1989.
2.14 (c)             3, 5, 9         C        09/30/89       annually     Borrower to cause the ARB to submit to IDA, not later than   Done. ARB submitting annual
September 30, 1989 and September 30, 1990, its annual  workplans to RFID and IDA
work program for the following year.
2.15                  5             C       12/31/89                     Recruitment by BOG of a RBs Inspection Advisor by      RB Inspection Advisor arrived in
December 31, 1989.                                     March 1990.
3.12                 1, 5           C       09/30/89       annually      BOG to carry out examination of each RB at least once a  All RBs examined at least once a
year.                                                  year beginning in 1994.



-21-
Table 8:    Status of Lega  Covenants
Pane 2 of 2
Agreement/        Covenant      Present        Fulfilbnent Date
Section           Type         Status    Original      Revised   Description of Covenant                                                  Comments
Credit Agreement
(DCA)
4.01 (b)         1, 2, 3         C       Twice a year             Borrower shall have all records and accounts for each fiscal year  Audits current and up-to-date.
audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors.
6.01(a)          9, 10          C        Condition for           Signing of Subsidiary Administration Agreement (SAA) between the  Done; letter of approval dated
effectiveness           Borrower and BOG.                                               November 1, 1989.
6.01(b)          9, 10          C        Condition for            Submission to IDA by the BOG, the operational policies and procedures   Policies submitted on time.
effectiveness           for the RFID.
6.01(c)         9, 10, 12       C        Condition for           Signing by BOG of Participation Agreement with at least two PFIs.  First Agreement signed with
effectiveness                                                                           ADB, Barclays and Standard
Chartered Banks
6.01(d)           5, 9          C        Condition for            Recruitment by BOG of a Rural Finance Adviser and a Rural Bank  Done
effectiveness           Restructuring Adviser.
6.01(e)          1, 2, 5        CD       Condition for           Submission by BOG the restructuring plans for the ADB and at least 20   Delayed by 6 months due to
effectiveness           rural banks.                                                    problems in recruiting
consultants.
6.01(f)         2, 4, 11        C       Condition for            Issuance of a statement by the Borrower that it would provide a deposit
effectiveness           guarantee up to a limit of Cedis 100,000 per depositor for rural banks
depositors whose claims cannot be met during the restructuring.
6.01(g)           2, 4          C        Condition for           Establishment by the Borrower of a RB Recapitalization Fund in the
effectiveness           BOG with an initial sum in Cedis equivalent to US $300,000.
Covenant types:                                                                                               Present Status:
I = Accounts/audits                          8 = Indigenous people                                            C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue            9 = Monitoring, review & reporting                               CD= complied with after delay
3 = Flow & utilization of project funds       10 = Project implementation not included in 1-9                 CP = complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                      11 = Sectoral budgetary/resource allocation                      NC = not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project         12 = Sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional
6 = Environmental covenants                   13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resetdement



-22-
Table 9: Comploance with Operational Manual Statements
The project was in compliance with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(in Staff Weeks)
Actual
Stage of Project Cycle     Weeks         US$
Through Appraisal             57.4       n.a.
Appraisal - Board             26.7       n.a.
Board - Effectiveness          6.8       n.a.
Supervision                   106.6      n.a.
Completion                    4.5        n.a.
Total                        202.0       n.a.
Note: n.a. = not available at the time of the ICR.



-23-
Table 11: Bank Resources - Missions
Month/  No. of    Days        Specialized               Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle  Year      Persons  in Field    Staff Skill     Implementation          Development              Problems
Appraisal               10/88       5         16       1, 1, 1, 4, 5          n.a.                n.a.       n.a.
Appraisal to Board       6/89       1          0            1                 n.a.                n.a.        n.a.
Board to Effectiveness   4/90       1          0            1                 n.a.                n.a.       n.a.
Supervision             10/90       1                       1                  2                   2         Restructuring delays
2/91       1                       1                  3                   2         Poor implementation capacity
6/92       4                    1, 1, 3, 4            3                   2         Slow disbursement
2/93       2                      1, 1                3                   2         Slow subloan processing
7/93       3                     1, 2, 5              3                   2         Slow training take-off/Disb.
11/93      1                       2                  2                   2          Second Extension
4/94       1                       2                  2                   2         No major problems identified
Completion               2/95       2         30           1, 2                2                   2
Note: n.a. = not applicable
Key to Staff Skills
1 = Agricultural economist
2 = Economist
3 = Agriculturist
4 = Financial analyst
5 = Banking specialist



- 24 -
PART III: SECTOR-SPECIFIC DATA
Table 12: Distribution of Subloans by Beneficiary Category
Total Loans                  Gr ups                    Individuals           Distri ution (%)
Ave. loan                   Ave. loan
Subsector              No. of      Total Loan     No. of         size         No. of         size
Beneficiaries  ('000 Cedis)  Beneficiaries  ('000 Cedis)   Beneficiaries   ('000 Cedis)  Group  Individuals
Agro-processing         144          33,459.0       10              575.5       134             206.7    83         17
Cocoa marketing         393         972,127.2       13             66,187       380             293.9    89         11
Cocoa Estate Rehab      1,411       230,030.1       39             1,024.1     1,372            138.6    83         17
Rural Infrastructure    137          93,508.9       58            1,057.7       79              407.1    66        34
Cottage Industries      1,099       238,006.9       13            1,254.6      1,086            204.1    93         7
Cotton                  145          42,543.1       7             2,018.6       138             205.9    67        33
Crop Production        8,574       1,852,870.9     411              957.4      8,133            175.9    77        23
Farm Inputs             701          93,187.1        -                  -       701             132.9     0        100
Fisheries               167          24,160.0        -                  -       167             144.7     0        100
Livestock               216          33,046.7       20              123.8       196             155.9    93         7
Oil Palm                482          97,455.8       20            1,186.8      462              159.6    76        24
Poultry                 550        3,896,109.4      101          23,736.7      449              207.8    98         2
Trading                 1,103      2,157,547.7     821            2,524.3      282              301.8    96         4
Transport               142          33,180.8       4               382.5       138             229.4    95         5
Total/Average/%        15,264      9,797,233.8     1,547          4,733.8     13,717            180.4    75        25
Source: Mission estimates based on PFI data.



- 25 -
Table 13: Distribution of Individual Subloans by Gender
Total Loans           No. of Beneficiaries    Comparative Loan Size   Share of Investments
('000 Cedis)             (
No. of     Total Loan
Subsector           Beneficiaries  ('000 Cedis)    Male        Female       Male       Female    Male    Female
Agro-processing         134          27,704.1       96           38         193.5       240.1     67         33
Cocoa marketing         380          111,692.2     274           106        300.7       276.4     74         26
Cocoa Estate Rehab      1,372        190,089.6     1,075         297        140.7       130.9     80         20
Rural Infrastructure     79          32,163.9       49           30         523.2       217.6     80         20
Cottage Industries     1,086        221,696.9      898           188        202.8       210.7     82         18
Cotton                  138          28,413.1      104           34         215.8       175.5     79         21
Crop Production        8,133       1,430,657.8     6,735        1,398       180.8       152.1     85         15
Farm Inputs             701          93,187.1      617           84         133.5       128.8     88         12
Fisheries               167          24,160.0       154          13         145.5       135.4     93         7
Livestock               196          30,570.3       163          33         155.5       158.4     83         17
Oil Palm                462          73,719.1      369           93         174.5       100.2     87         13
Poultry                 449          93,294.0      341           108        216.5       180.1     79         21
Trading                 282          85,103.7      232           50         312.2       253.4     85         15
Transport               138          31,650.8       113          25         229.8       227.2     82         18
Total/Average/ %       13,717      2,474,102.7    11,220        2,497       184.2       163.0     84         16
Source: Mission estimates based on PFI data.



- 26 -
Table 14:  Summary Statistics and Subsidy Dependence of Selected Rural Banks
(cedis '000)
Rural bank              Region            Total     Total Loans    Subloans     SDI (%)
Deposits
Nyakrom                 Central             186,100       30, 320       100,253     -36.0
Kaaseman                Western            280,790       281,560        237,529      11.0
Tano                    Brong-Aghafo        81,630        63,700        40,292      46.0
Nsoatreman              Brong-Aghafo       114,910       205,580         92,116      -5.0
Brakwa Breman           Central             61,980        67,870        155,249     -19.0
Akyempim                Central             100,050       96,760         46,098      -8.0
Abokobi Area            Greater Accra      134,130       231,520         77,291      10.0
Lower Pra               Western            534,040       554,000        214,597      12.0
Nwabiagya               Ashanti            229,040        193,111       131,118      -6.0
Agona                   Central             119,650       59,690         31,885      15.0
Bosomtwe                Ashanti            235,730        124,350        48,038     -21.0
Wamfie                  Brong-Aghafo       212,330.       60,680         39,113      55.0
Amansie West            Ashanti            183,120        52,700         84,953       4.0
Amanano                 Ashanti            181,100        75,040         54,801      37.0
Juaben                  Ashanti            199,790         83,390        80.790      52.0
Mumuadu                 Eastern            212,330        138,130        37,326       1.0
Atwima Mponua           Ashanti            215,900        13-,630        74,896      31.0
Upper Amenfi            Western             81,330         15,750        12,155    201.0
Okomfo Anokye           Ashanti             85,840        25,330         11,829     130.0
Mansoman                Western             42,020        35,560         47,595      17.0
Kumbungu                Northern             14,20         5,400          5,246    466.0
Atiwa                   Eastern             67,580        29,870         18,770      77.0
Anum                    Eastern            240,020         120.91         6,776       6.0
Ahantaman               Western            376,670       236,380         55,127       3.0
South Akim              Eastern             185,500       89,690         41,712      31.0
Asante Akyem            Ashanti             70,310        46,410         45,794    284.0
Total (26 RBs)                          4,442,680.0   3,022,740.0    1,781,268.0
As share of all RBs (%)(C)                    35.0          45.0          100.0
(a) Based on submissions to RFID for period ending December 31, 1993.
(b) Cumulative for period of rural banks participation in program.
(c) Based on December 31, 1994 estimates.
Source: RFID, December 31, 1994 and Mission Estimates.



- 27 -
Table 15: Total Deposits, Reserves and Advances for Rural Banks, 1989 - 1993
(in million Cedis)
Category                1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
Total Deposits         4,600        5,890        5,400        9,680        13,240
Secondary
Reserves                881         1,380         1,503       5,540         6,710
Total Loans            1,350        2,270        3,700        4,800         6,820
Source: RFID, December 31, 1994.



- 28 -
Table 16: Repayment of Subloans under the Rural Finance Project
(in Cedis Million)
Share of Total Loan                    Repaid as % of    Outstanding
PFI                              Amount Disbursed      Disbursed M%        Amount Repaid         Loan           Balance     |
Agricultural Development Bank        7,332,4                74.1               843.0              11.5           6,491.3
(ADB)
Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB)            93.7                 1.0                 10.1              10.8            83.6
Standard Chartered Bank (SCB)          61.1                 0.6                 61.1             100.0            0.0
Export Finance Company (EFC)          621.6                 6.3                621.6             100.0            0.0
Rural Banks (a)                       1,781.3               18.0               369.8             20.8            1,411.5
Total                                9,890.1               100.0              1,903.7            19.3           7,986.4
Note: The maturity date for subloans, by financial institution, is as follows: ADB, September 2000; GCB, December 1997; SCB, March 1994;
EFC, March 1994 and the rural banks, December 1997.
(a) Total for 26 rural banks participating in the program.
Source: RFID, December 31, 1994.



- 29 -
Table 17: Rural Banks: Training Courses Offered, 1991 - 1994.
Target Group                  1991                      1992                           1993                            1994
Managers and Project  Project loan appraisal    Accounting for Non-       Credit investigation           Funds management
Officers                                    Accountants
Project evaluation             Accounting for Non-Accountants
Loan monitoring and supervision   Time management
Loan recovery procedures
Managers and         Annual planning and    Interpretation of financial
Directors            budgeting              statements
Policy formulation and   Management information
resource               systems
mobilization
Management decision making    Long range planning            Training of trainers
Funds management             Corporate planning
Internal controls            Operation monitoring
Cost reduction               Interpretation of financial
statements
Accountants                                 Interpretation of financial   Management information systems  Cost reduction
statements
Bank of Ghana reporting        Accounting for Non-Accountants
requirements
Time Management
Clerks and Cashiers                          Overview - rural banks       Overview - rural bank accounting  Overview - rural bank accounting
accounting systems           systems                         systems
Cashiering                   Cashiering                     Cashiering
Bookkeeping                  Bookkeeping                    Bookkeeping
Customer relations           Customer relations             Customer relations



- 30 -
Table 18: Rural Banks: Regional Distribution of Training, 1994
Directors             Managers             Project Officers           Accountants             Cashiers/Clerks                   Total
No. of
Region             Banks       Persons    Courses    Persons   Courses    Persons        Courses      Persons     Courses      Persons      Courses         Persons       Courses
Greater Accra        5           26          15          5         37          3            12           2           4            2            8              38             76
Eastem              21           132         63         21         135        10           21            7           14           7            24            177            257
Northem              2            9           6          2         14          0            0            1           2            2             8             14             30
Upper West           2            11         6           2         18          1            1            2           4            1            4              17             33
Upper East           2            9          6           2         17          0            0            1           2            1            4              13             29
Central             20           65          57         20         131         5           15            7           14           8            28             105           245
Ashanti             22           126         63         22         139         1            3            8           17           9            28            166            250
Volta               14           47          36         14         78          1            1            3           6            5            20             70             141
Brong Ahafo         18           90          51         18         111         4           10            6           11           6            24            124            207
Wstern             13           63         36          13        95          4            1 1          5           10           1             4             86             156
Total               1193         578        339         119        75         29           74           42           84          42            152           810            1,424
Source: Association of Rural Banks, January 1995.



Appendix A
-GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
[Credit 2040-GH1
IMPLEMENTATION COMfPLETION MISSION
January 18 to February 22, 1995
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Rudolph A. Polson (Mission Leader, AF4AE) and Patience
Mensah (Operations Officer, AF4GA) carried out a final supervision of the Rural Finance Project
(Credit 2040-GH) from January 18 to February 22,1995 in preparation of the project's Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The mission held discussions with Nana Ama Yeboa, OBP, First Deputy
Governor, Bank of Ghana, Nana Mireku Annto, Acting Director, Rural Finance Inspection Department
(RFID), Mr. Buachie-Affram, Registrar of Cooperatives, the president and officials of the Association
of Rural Banks, and the Country Director, Technoserve (an NGO providing technical assistance to the
rural cooperative pilot project in the Upper West Region). The mission also visited a sample of rural
banks to review the status of implementation of the on-lending component among the participating
financial institutions (PFIs) and to conduct an assessment of the impact of the subloans on project
beneficiaries.' The mission paid a courtesy call on Mr. George Cann, Ministry of Finance and
Economy Planning, and briefed him on its objectives. A wrap-up meeting, held with the Bank of
Ghana, was chaired by Nana Ama Yeboa, OBP, First Deputy Governor. The mission extends its
thanks and appreciation to these officials for their kind courtesies and assistance.
2.     This Aide Memoire, subject to review by Bank management, provides a synopsis of the
mission's key findings and conclusions, the agreements reached with government, and the follow-up
actions required under the ICR process. It provides an assessment of the project in the following
areas: (i) project objectives and achievements of these objectives; (ii) major factors affecting project
implementation; (iii) Bank and Borrower performance; (iv) sustainability of key project benefits;
(vi) future operations in the rural finance sector; and (vii) the key lessons learned from project
implementation.
Overview of the ICR Process
3.     Background. The credit of SDR 15.2 million (US$20.0 equivalent) was approved on July 28,
1989, but it did not become effective until April 26, 1990, nearly a year later. The IDA credit
comprised an on-lending component of US$15.0 million to finance viable subprojects through eligible
participating financial institutions (PFIs), and an institution building component of US$5.0 million for
strengthening key sector institutions to enable them to improve the efficiency of rural financial
During the field visits, the Bank mission was joined by Nana Mireku Annto, (Acting Director, RFID) and Mr. Victor
Nyarko (Manager, RFID) from the Bank of Ghana and Mr. Mark Owusu-Ansah (Loans Manager, ADB). Mr. Owusu-
Ansah coordinated the ADB component of the field visits and interviews with beneficiaries. The mission visited the
following rural banks: Lower Pra Rural Bank (Central Region), Nzema Manle Rural Bank (Western Region),
Bosomtwe Rural Bank (Ashanti Region), Nwabiagya Rural Bank (Ashanti Region), Nsoatreman Rural Bank (Brong-
Ahafo) and Wamfie Rural Bank (Brong-Ahafo Region).



-2-
intermediation. The project encountered numerous problems during the first two years, and significant
disbursement lags occurred. However, disbursement improved significantly after the mid-term review
(MTR) when design-related constraints affecting project implementation were remedied. But the
earlier delays in meeting project effectiveness conditions and the slow progress of the first two years
necessitated an extension of the original closing date to enable the Borrower to complete key institution
building activities crucial to achievement of the project's developmental impact. The credit was
therefore extended by two years; it finally closed on December 31, 1994, and is expected to be fully
disbursed by April 30, 1995, when the accounts are closed.
4.     Timing and Consultation with Borrower. Discussions on the ICR process, in particular, the
timing of the ICR mission and coordination of the Borrower's input began in early 1993. The
Borrower took specific actions in support of the ICR process included: (i) hiring of two local
consultants in October 1994 to prepare its draft evaluation report; and (ii) assigning two senior officials
of the RFID to provide the formal liaison with the Bank during the ICR process. The consultants' draft
reports, submitted to the RFID in December 1994, formed the basis for preparing the Borrower's
evaluation of the project, including its post-implementation action plan.
5.    Data Sources for the ICR. Data for preparing the draft ICR were obtained from the relevant
project files, the progress reports submitted by the PFIs, and from field visits and interviews with
selected project beneficiaries. Data from the financial institutions that participated in the on-lending
program -- the ADB, Standard Chartered Bank (SCB), Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the Export
Finance Company (EFC), and 26 rural banks -- on subloan amounts, purpose, type of beneficiaries,
location of investment and other socioeconomic profiles were used to conduct an impact assessment of
the subloans in the rural economy.
Summary of Mission's Findings and Conclusions
Project Costs. Financing and Disbursement Status
6.     Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan. At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated
at US$38.0 million, comprising the on-lending component (US$28.0 million), institution building
(US$9.0 million), and the Rural Finance Inspection Department (US$1.0 million). The level of IDA
financing was estimated at US$20.0 million. Co-financiers, notably USAID and the Canadian
Cooperative Association (CCA) through CIDA were expected to contribute a total of US$8.9 million,
but this component was dropped for lack of firm commitment from these agencies. At effectiveness,
the revised project cos. was therefore US$29.1 million, excluding the component which was to be
financed by cofinanciers.
7.     Actual Project Costs and Financing at Completion. At closing, the actual rijectLt was
US$28.4 million, consisting of local costs of US$10.5 million (US$10.8 million estimated) and foreign
costs of US$17.9 million (US$18.3 million estimated). Actual project financing was as follows: IDA
US$20.4 million, Government US$1.2 million, PFIs US$3.9 million, and project beneficiaries US$2.9
million which was consistent with the revised financing plan established at credit effectiveness.
8.     Disbursement Status at Completion. The Credit was approved on July 28, 1989, became
effective on April 26, 1990, and closed on December 31, 1994, after two extensions of one year each.
The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by April 30, 1995. The line of credit component,
including the IDA contribution of US$15.0 million, was disbursed fully before the closing date of
December 31, 1994. The institution building component of US$5.0 million is expected to fully
disburse by April 30, 1995.



- 3 -
Project Objectives and Specific Covenants
9.     Project Objectives and Components. The main objectives of the project were to: (i) expand
rural productive capacity and employment by providing financing for viable subprojects in crop
production, livestock, fisheries, artisanal agro-processing, inputs, etc.; and (ii) strengthen sector
institutions in order to improve the efficiency of rural financial intermediation. The two project
components were: (i) a line of credit; and (ii) institution building. Institution building had several
subcomponents: restructuring of the rural banks; strengthening the ARB and the CUAs; building an
enhanced capacity for the appraisal of rural credit; strengthening the capacity of the Bank of Ghana for
rural bank examination; and building a capacity within BOG for research in rural finance policy; and
development of rural cooperatives. The project's objectives, as stated in the SAR, were realistic and
adequately reflected the priorities for strengthening the rural financial sector as agreed with
government.
10.   Specific Covenants to Achieve Project Objectives. Covenants contained in the Development
Credit Agreement established conditionalities for credit effectiveness. However, inability of the BOG
to fulfill these conditionalities in a timely manner delayed project effectiveness for nearly 10 months.
The project became effective on April 26, 1990, when the last condition -- the preparation of
restructuring plans for the first 20 rural banks in a manner satisfactory to IDA -- was satisfied.
Covenants contained in the Project Agreement defined the policy and institutional arrangements for
project implementation and covered issues such as abolition of sectoral quotas on loans, abolition of
ceilings on shareholdings in rural banks, development of a credit monitoring system for rural banks,
and the recruitment of technical assistance personnel under the project. These covenants were also
largely met.
Overall Achievement of Proiect Objectives.
11.   On the whole, the project achieved its two main objectives of expanding investment and
employment in the rural sector and strengthening the capacity of key sector institutions in order to
improve the efficiency of rural financial intermediation. Achievements of specific components are
detailed below.
12.   On-lending CoMponent. The project on-lent, over a five year period, an estimated Cedis 9.8
billion for financing investments that benefited an estimated 15,250 individuals and groups. The key areas
of investment were: poultry (Cedis 3.9 billion), trading (Cedis 2.1 billion), crop production (Cedis 1.9
billion) and cocoa marketing and estate rehabilitation (Cedis 1.2 billion). Other activities supported were
livestock, fisheries, oil palm, cottage industries, cotton, rural transport and agro-processing. Of the total
Cedis 9.8 billion under this component, subloans to groups such as marketing and producer associations
totaled Cedis 7.3 billion (75.0 percent), while subloans to individual investors amounted to Cedis 2.5
billion (25.0 percent). The individual loans of Cedis 2.5 billion benefited an estimated 13,700 small
investors, most of whom were men, with women beneficiaries numbering 2,500 (18.0 percent) of the
13,700 and accounting for 16 percent of total investments. The average size of group loans was Cedis 4.7
million compared to Cedis 180,000 for individuals. Deposit mobilization. Among the rural banks, the
project helped to increase deposit mobilization, mainly from small first-time rural clients who were
encouraged to open accounts with the rural banks as a condition for program participation, and who
continued to maintain these accounts long after the end of their initial commitment to the rural banks. The
total deposits mobilized by all rural banks nearly tripled, from Cedis 4.6 billion in 1989 - a year before
project effectiveness - to Cedis 13.2 billion in 1994, with the 26 rural banks participating in the project
accounting for 37.0 percent of the total deposit mobilized. Increased Credit Allocation. Credit and access
to credit also increased: total loans and advances nearly doubled, from Cedis 3.7 billion in 1991 to Cedis



- 4 -
6.8 billion in 1994, compared to external project resources of Cedis 1.7 billion channeled through the rural
banks during the life of the project, and which averaged about Cedis 340.0 million per year. However, the
credit to the rural economy represents only a small fraction of the demand, as total institutional lending to
agriculture, excluding the rural banks, was much higher, at an estimated Cedis 24,348.0 million in
November 1994.
13.   Impact on Institution Building. Overall, achievement under the institution building component
is evaluated as satisfactory. The performance of individual subcomponents is detailed below:
Restructuring the Rural Banks. Overall, achievement was marginally satisfactory. Specific
target set in the SAR was the complete restructuring of at least 80 of the 125 rural banks by
project completion. However, by completion, only 55 rural banks (44 percent) of the 125 rural
banks had been rated satisfactory by the BOG, 51 banks (41 percent) were rated as less than
satisfactory (mediocre or weak), and 19 banks (15 percent) were rated as distressed. While on
face value this may represent significant achievements -- only two rural banks were rated
satisfactory at project effectiveness -- in reality, the rural banks are still weak and susceptible
to both intemal and external shocks. Although the satisfactory banks are currently meeting
capital adequacy requirements of 6 percent of risks assets, most continue to face a myriad of
problems, including weak management, low capital base, and high proportion of non-
performing loans. They are also plagued by weak internal controls which increase the
opportunities for fraud by staff. If anything, the diagnosis conducted during the restructuring
process revealed that the rural banks were in worse shape than earlier believed and, in order to
become fully viable, these rural banks would need continuity in technical assistance programs
such as training, that have benefited them tremendously over the past five years. The
Borrower has, in its post-credit action plan, agreed to maintain the momentum of technical
assistance to the rural banks in such areas as training, inspection and examination and
development of rural cooperatives.
Strengthening the Association of Rural Banks. Achievements under this subcomponent
were satisfactory. The project enabled the Association of Rural Banks to firmly establish
the capacity for managing the training programs of the rural banks that benefited more than
2,000 staff, managers and directors. The achievements of the training program exceeded
initial expectations, and even more importantly, the ARB has decentralized this activity to
the regions in order to reduce costs, expand coverage to member banks, and encourage
local ownerhi and management.
Strengthening Capacity for Rural Bank Examination. Performance of this subcomponent
was also saisfac    There were, however, initial delays in training of RFID staff, after
identification of skills gaps by project consultants based within BOG. BOG management
was slow in approving staff development plans submitted by the RFID, and consequently,
training did not begin as scheduled. The RFID capacity for examination was enhanced by
the procurement of 6 field vehicles, and in 1994, for the first time, the RFID was able to
inspect all 106 rural banks (comprising the 55 satisfactory and 51 weak/mediocre banks).
(TMe 19 distressed banks are closed, awaiting liquidation or transformation to savings and
loans). Furthermore, the RFID has put into place, though not yet fully institutionalized, a
feedback mechanism to rural banks cited for serious exceptions during regular inspection
exercises. This feedback function has been important in keeping good rural banks from
sliding back to the unsatisfactory category while closely monitoring the weaker banks to
ensure that their performance improves.



-5 -
Buildini CaRacity for Rural Credit Appraisal. Achievement of this subcomponent was
unsatisfacoQy. A total of 96 man-months of consultancy to the rural banks for credit
appraisal and the provision of 100 motorbikes as logistics to project officers within the
rural banks were not implemented by the RFID. Similarly, for the national level-banks,
the recruitment of 60 projects officers, as stipulated in the project, was also not
implemented. A few satisfactory rural banks have hired project officers, but a majority of
rural banks have yet to establish this important capacity.
Strengthening of Rural Cooperatives (Pilot Program). This component is rated as
satisfactory. The pilot program was conceptualized to test the basic hypothesis that
efficiency and effectiveness of rural financial intermediation could be enhanced if
individual smaliholders were organized into groups in order to achieve the desired
economies of scale. A total of 750 farmers in the resource-poor areas of the Upper West
were assisted through technical assistance provided through an NGO to form marketing
cooperatives that are profitably engaged in inventory credit. Sales from their commercial
activities totaled Cedis 13.8 million in 1993. This is a significant achievement, given that
average annual family cash income in these areas is Cedis 750,000, with about 10 persons
per household.
* Strengthening the Credit Union Association. This subcomponent was canceled due to the
lack of co-financing.
Key Factors Affecting Proiect Performance
14.   The major factors affecting the project were: (i) inability of the Borrower to satisfy, in a timely
manner, all conditionalities for effectiveness; (ii) lack of interest by the national-level commercial banks to
participate in the program; (iii) the low ceiling on subloans, which effectively led to the exclusion of larger
borrowes from participating in the project; and (iv) the weak capacity of the RFID, the implementing
agency. Effectiveness Delay: The delay in meeting credit effectiveness was due to the inability of the
RFID to satisfy all stipulated conditionalities in a timely manner, in particular, Section 6.01 (e) of the
Development Credit Agreement which required the Borrower to submit, in a manner satisfactory to IDA,
the financial restructuring plans for at least 20 of the rural banks. Lack of interest by National-level
Banks: The low participation rate of the national-level banks, with the exception of the ADB which
traditionally lends to agriculture, was a reflection of their assessment of high administrative costs of such
leading, the risks inherent in rainfed agriculture, and the nature of potential clients (small, hcking
collateral, and widely dispersed). Because commercial banks paid little or no interests on current accounts,
the reference interest rate (RIR) on project funds, which averaged about 18 percent, representod an
unacceptably high costs of funds to these banks. By completion, utilization of the on-lending proceeds was
distributed as follows: Barclays Bank (0.0 percent), Standard Chartered Bank (0.6 percent), Ghana
Commercial Bank (1.0 percent), the Export Finance Company (6.3 percent), compared to the rural banks
(18.0 percaet) and the ADB (74.1 percent). Low Ceiling on Subloans: The project established a ceiling of
Cedis 50.0 million (about USS50,000 at the current exchange rate) on subloans in an effort to prevent the
crowding out of small borrowers by larger private sector firms and parastatals. This low ceiling effectively
directed credit to specific size (smaller) operations and denied access to the larger enterprises, whose
requirements were significantly higher than the ceiling. During the MTR, the credit agreement was
amended to allow participation of larger borrowers, and disbursement increased significantly. By
completion, the average loan to parastatals and groups had increased from Cedis 599,000 to Cedis 4.7
million.                             9
15.   Bank Performance. On the whole, Bank performance, from identification through completion
was satisfactory. The Bank was responsive to constraints identified during implementation and,



-6 -
accordingly, increased its level of supervision and consultation with the Borrower: 54 percent of total
staff weeks was used for supervision of the credit. However, the Bank could have done more to secur
commitments from co-financiers before proceeding to the Board, thereby avoiding the cancellation of
the CUA component of USS8.9 for lack of co-financing.
16.   Borrower Performance. On the whole, Borrower performance was also satisfactory. The project
was consistent with the Borrower's objective of strengthening rural financial intermediation and putting the
rural banking systen on sound financial, technical and institutional footing. The project therefore had
strong Borrower commitment and ownership. Prior to the project, the Borrower had implemented
significant policy and institutional reforms at the macro-level, including financial sector refonns, which
helped to provide an enabling environment for project implementation. However, at the implementing
agency level, there were practical problems in translating strong Borrower commitment into effective
implementation performance: lack of prior experience in implementing Bank projects, high turnover in
senior managernent, delays in procurement of vehicles and computers critical to carrying out statutory
functions of inspection management audits. However, the RFID was able to transcend the earlier
problems, such that by the mid-term review it had developed significant capacity for project
implementation.
17.   Assessment of Project Outcomes. Based on the implementation performance, estimates of
sustainability and the Borrower's plans for the post-credit phase of the project, overall outcome of the
project was satisfactory. The project accomplished its key objectives of financing eligible subprojects in
the rural sector and of strengthening financial sector institutions. Overall assessment of specific project
components is as follows: Line of credit: outcome satisfactory, despite the initial implementation delays.
Institutonal building: overall outcome satisfactory, but with varying degrees of success in specific
subcomponents as noted: (i) financial restructuring of the rural banks -- less than satisfactory, given the
partial achievement of targets and low probability of sustainability; (ii) strengthening of the ARB --
outcome highly satisfactory; (iii) enhancing capacity for rural credit appraisal - outcome less than
satisfactory; (iv) strengthening BOG capacity for inspection management audits of the rural banking
system -- outcome satisfactory; and (v) strengthening rural cooperatives - outcome highly satisfactory.
Sustainability. Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
18.   Project Sustainability. Given the commitment from the Borrower, the emergence of stronger
sector institutions, and local ownership, sustainability of key project benefits appears highly likely.
The RFID has emerged as a viable agency with demonstrable capacity to provide systematic
management audits of the rural banking system. The ARB has developed good capacity for conducting
the training program of rural banks' staff and directors, but this cannot be sustained in the short-term
without support from BOG. To a large extent, the rural banks, through charges levied by the ARB,
are already bearing an increasing share of training costs, but more resources would be needed,
especially if training is to focus on the weaker banks. Two indicators of the sustainability of the
training program are: (i) the training of trainers program, a local twinning arrangement between the
strong and weak banks in a specific region; and (ii) the increasing awareness among some rural bank
managers to budget for training based on identified skills gaps. Also, it is important as a sustainability
measure, that the current rating scheme used by the BOG in classifying rural banks be expanded
beyond simple capital adequacy and embrace other attributes of sustainability such as quality of staff,
internal controls systems, quality of portfolio and staff development. Rural Cooperatives: The
farmers service cooperative centers, established as pilots under the project, are profitable, with strong
local ownership and have received commendations from regional authorities for contributing directly to
efforts of poverty alleviation in the resource-poor areas of the Upper West Region. Innovative
instruments for rural financial intermediation developed under this component, such as the inventory
credit scheme, are worthy of further testing and replication.



- 7 -
19.    Rural Banks. On the basis of loan recovery rates, profitability and quality of their portfolios, the
rural banks are, in general, still far from being sustainable. A few banks have nevertheless made
significant imnprovements under the project that are noteworthy. These include the 55 banks rated
satisfactory by the BOG and, specifically, the 26 banks that participated in the on-lending program. The
average recovery rate among all rural banks was 59 percent as at December 31, 1994, compared to 70
percent in 1986, a significant decline. The reason for the decline varied -- rapid expansion of branches and
mobilizing agencies, the inability to increase portfolio quality, and low prices for agriculture output.
However, as expected, performance among the 55 satisfactory rural banks was better, with 73 percent
recovery rate, compared to only 44.0 percent for the 51 banks rated as mediocre. The better performance
showed a marked improvement in their ability to handle the varied risks associated with agriculture sector
lending. Most rural banks continue to make inadequate provisions for bad and doubtful debts, thereby
overstating their profitability: as at December 31, 1994, 96 of the 106 active rural banks made inadequate
provisions for bad debts amounting to Cedis 469.8 million. Profits among the 26 participating rural banks
was higher, ranging from Cedis 0.2 million to Cedis 49.0 million as at December 31, 1993. On the basis of
these mixed results, rural banks would need significantly more assistance beyond the scope of this
operation in order to become viable.
20.    Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned. The Borrower is committed to the development of
a strong rural financial sector, the centerpiece of which is the rural banking system, and has therefore, in its
post-project operational plans, identified the priority areas and the resource requirement for support of
institution strengthening objectives in the medium term. The Borrower's plan would ensure continuity in
key technical assistance activities such as the training of rural bank staff and directors, replication and
wider testing of innovative instruments of rural financial intermediation developed under the pilot program
of rural cooperation, and regular inspection management audits of rural banks, including feedback to
management. Key Lessons: The key lessons for future projects in the rural finance sector are:
(i) training of rural bank staff and directors, perhaps more than any single project activity, is the essential
ingredient for the development of a viable rural banking sector; (ii) in order to be effective monitoring tools,
inspection mangement audits of the rural banks should be combined with regular feedback to their
management, with clear guidelines for correcting observed deficiencies, a time frame for addressing
exceptions noted, and possible sanctions for failing to rectify deficiencies; (iii) as demonstrated by the
ARB, the emergence of a strong apex institution for the rural banks can lead to the development of a
sustainable, non-governmental alternative for strengthening the rural banking system; (v) inventory credit
has emerged as an innovative marketing tool that has potential for providing strong linkages between the
formal and informal financial sectors.
21.    Next Steps: Priority Actions. The immediate next steps, based on the lessons learned from the
project, are to: continue the institutional strengthening efforts in the rural finance sector for which the
Borrower has requested a bridging reallocation from on-going projects in the agriculture sector
portfolio to continue with technical assistance to the ARB, the RFID and the Pilot Program in Rural
Cooperatives in the Upper West; and to begin early preparation (diagnosis, testing of new instruments,
broad client consultation, and studies) of a follow-up rural finance operation, for which the Borrower
has requested a PPF and which would be a component of the proposed Second Agriculture Sector
Investment Credit (ASIC) scheduled for FY98.
rfpaide.doc






Appendix B
IMPLEMENTA TION
COMPLETION
REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDTNO. 2040-GH
MARCH 10, 1995
1






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2040-GH
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Finance Project in Ghana, for
which Credit No. 2040-GH in the amount of SDR 15.2 Million was approved on June 30, 1989 and
became effective on April 26, 1990. The credit closed on 31st December, 1994, instead of the
original closing date of 31 st December, 1992. It was almost fully disbursed.
The Bank of Ghana engaged the Consultants, Messrs K. Gyasi-Twum and Akwasi Owusu-Bi to
assist the Government in the evaluation of the implementation experience and project performance.
The report fully reflects the views of the Govermnent.
Preparation of this ICR begun during the Bank's Final Supervision Mission from January 18 to
February 22, 1995. It is based on materials in the project file, field visits to the project sites,
participating banks, interviews with officials of Bank of Ghana, the Association of Rural Banks,
other participating agencies, and some final project beneficiaries.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 2040-GHi
GHANA
INTRODUCTION
The rural sector of the Ghanaian economy is important for its share of the national population (65
percent) and its total productive capacity, producing about 53 per cent of the Gross Domestic
Product (over the period 1975-87). Much of the productive capacity of the rural sector is devoted
to agricultural production, producing about 80 per cent of all agricultural produce of the country.
Significantly about 90 per cent of rural agricultural producers are small-holders whose practices are
characterized by low productivity due mainly to less productive and inefficient production
technology and post-production losses. It is however recognized that consistent and systematic
investment in more modem and cost effective production technology in rural areas backed with
increasing investment in, and restructuring of, rural infrastructure could significantly induce growth
in the rural sector. This calls for substantial rural financial intermediation.
Unfortunately commercial banks have tended to focus more on urban industrial and commercial
activities which are more profitable and less risky. Rural banks (RBs) have been set up since 1976
to fill the gap in the rural/agricultural sector financial intermediation. However most of the Rural
Banks have neither been able to mobilize enough deposits nor satisfy the demand for credit in the
productive sector in their respective catchment areas.
Project Objectives and Components
In recognition of the need to restructure the rural financial markets with the view to ensuring the
improvement and sustainability of rural financial intermediation, the Ghana Government (GOG)
obtained a credit of 15.2 Million SDRs from the International Development Association (IDA)
under a development credit agreement dated 28th July 1989 to finance the Rural Finance Project
(RFP).
The main objectives of the project are to:
(a)   expand productive capacity and employment generation in the rural sector by providing
financing for viable projects in agriculture, livestock, fisheries, artisanal, agro-processing,
and input supplies through a multi-agency lending approach;
(b)   implement a financial restructuring programme for rural banks to enable them become more
efficient in deposit mobilization and in the-delivery of short and medium term credit
especially to small-holders.
3



(c)   strengthen the Association of Rural Banks and the Credit Union Association, two important
NGOs that are promoting financial interrnediation in informal sectors.
(d)   build an enhanced capacity of the appraisal of rural credits.
(e)   strengthen the rural banks examination unit in Bank of Ghana
(f)   build a local capacity for research in rural finance policy.
In pursuance of the above objectives, the project was made up of two components viz.
i.    a line of credit or on-lending component of 11.35 million SDRs (about US$15.8 million)
ii.   an institution-building component of 3.85 SDRs (about USS5.3 million)
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCES AND LESSONS LEARNED
The project objectives were relevant and realistic within the context of Ghana's Econic Recovery
Progranmme. The overall achievement of the RFP has been substantial. About 9/of the total
credit was disbursed. There were appreciable achievement in the financing of priate econormic
activities in agriculture, livestock, fisheries and artisanal agro-processing in the rural sector. The
line of credit had enabled the participating banks to expand their credit portfolios while the
beneficiaries were able to maintain, rehabilitate or expand their enterprises.
Under the restructuring and institution-building process, rural banks (RBs) were being brought in
line with the provisions of the Banking Law, 1989 and the relevant Rank of Ghana Notices and
Circulars thereby ensuring their liquidity profitability and solvency at all times.
The Bank of Ghana examination and inspection capacity was also strengthened through technical
assistance and training under the project.
The Rural Finance Project also enabled the Association of Rural Banks (ARB) a non-governmental
umbrella organization open to membership by all rural banks, to secure the assistance of external
consultants and logistic support to mount training programmes for all levels of rural banks staff and
directors.
Under a pilot scheme in the Upper West Region, fanners organized in cooperatives were assisted
through technical assistance, training and credit to derive fuller benefits from their farming
activities.
The original three-year project life turned out to be too optimistic. The use of the line of Credit
and the implementation of the rural bank's restructuring programme and other institutional
strengthening activities such as the pilot programme on the strengthening of the Farmers Services
Centre Cooperatives (FSCCs) needed more time than anticipat- J  There was e .,ry indication
4



towards a more realistic 5-yeaf project life. Hence the request and approval for a two-year
extension of the project period.
Line of Credit Component
A provision of 11.35 rnillion SDRs (about $15.86 million) was made for on-lending to financial
institutions which entered into participatory agreements with the Bank of Ghana. Participatory
agreements were signed with the following 6 (six urbanized financial institutions;
i.    Agricultural Development Bank (ADB)
ii.    Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Ltd. (SCB)
iii.    Barclays Bank of Ghana Ltd.
iv.    Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB)
v.    Social Security Bank Ltd.
vi.    Export Finance Company Ltd. (EFC)
In addition to the above, 31 (thirty-one) rural banks had signed the project participatory agreement.
About 99.9% of the line of credit was disbursed to three national banks, the Export Finance
Company and twenty-six rural banks.
Participation by the Ghana Commercial Bank and Standard Chartered Bank was minimal. Barclays
Bank and Social Security Bank did not subnit any application for reimbursement.
Disbursement was however slow during the initial stages of the project life. The reason for low and
non-participation by national banks included the following:
i.    High cost of project funds (i.e. reference interest rate)
ii.    High risk associated with eligible sub-projects in the sectors covered.
iii.   Lending policy of individual financial institutions geared towards short-term lending to
sector other than the agricultural sector.
iv.   Inability to meet eligibility criteria for participation in the project.
v.    Excess liquidity
In order to accelerate the rate of disbursement of the line of credit, a number of changes were made
to project design. These were:
i.    The amendment of the formula for and frequency of calculating the cost of project funds,
i.e. reference interest rate.
ii.    The removal of the ceiling on individual borrowing from the project.
5



Of the 31 rural banks that signed the participatory agreements, 26 (twenty-six) actually accessed
the on-lending facility. Late qualification and failure to ensure continued compliance with all laid-
down eligibility conditions (in the case of one rural bank) were the reasons for their inability to
access the facility.
Two rural banks which were assessed as having qualified for participation in 1991, but did not sign
the participatory agreement gave the reason for their non participation as lack of immediate
investment avenues in their respective catchment areas. One of the banks however had an on-going
special programme for their women customers with the assistance of a foreign NGO.
As at 31st December, 1994, the sum of 9.89 billion ($15.8 million) had been disbursed to ADB,
SCB, GCB, EFC and 26 RBs. (Table 2 attached).
The total loan portfolio of the rural banks increased from 1.35 billion as at December 1989 (before
the project) to 6.82 billion as at December 1994. Likewise, ADBs total loan portfolio increased
from 5 billion as at December 1991 to 33.2 billion as at December, 1994.
Interviews conducted on some PFI beneficiaries indicate that the on-lending facility had enabled
them to increase the output of their enterprises as well as employ more hands. One such
beneficiary who is a poultry farmer had his total bird population and egg production increasing
almost three fold after benefitting from the line of credit.
Institution Building
87% of the institution-building component was disbursed. The project assisted 122 RBs in
preparing their restructuring programmes through training and technical assistance.
The RFP made an impact on rural financial intermediation in the following areas:-
t.    assisting 122 RBs in preparing their restructuring programmes through technical assistance
and training.
ii.    providing training, technical assistance and logistic support to the RB examination Unit
(BSD) and the RB inspection unit (RFID) of Bank of Ghana.
iii.   providing extemal consultants and logistic support to enable ARB prepare training modules
and mount training programmes for RB staff and directors.  The training addressed
technical deficiencies in the skills of staff and directors.
The above intervention has contributed towards the achievement of the following:
I     The improvement of financial and management status of the RBs as evidenced in the
ncreases in the rural banks classified as satisfactory, from 2 at the onset of the project to 55
6



as at December 1994. 51 RBs were at the close of the project classified as mediocre or
weak while 19 were distressed.
2.    Bank of Ghana has improved its role in the supervision and monitoring of rural banks. BSD
examined 52 RBs in 1993 as against 46 in 1992 whilst the RFID covered 107 RBs as
against 81 in 1993. For 1994 55 and 106 RB were examined and inspected respectively.
3.    Training of RB personnel is now being conducted on a continuous basis. 872 staff and
directors of RBs have been trained.
In addition to the above, under the pilot programme on rural cooperatives in the Upper West
Region, an inventory credit scheme had resulted in substantial price gains to the participating
farmers.
Key Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned are:
i.    On-lending scheme had motivated RBs to upgrade themselves into satisfactory category
i.    System of reimbursing PFIs with sub-loans instead of providing funds up-front made PFIs
more circumspect and meticulous in screening eligible subprojects
iii    The more credit a bank is able to provide the more customers the bank gets and the greater
its mobilized deposits. The RFP therefore has potential of expanding mobilized deposits for
PF is.
iv.    Even though PFIs are prepared to grant term loans to rural entrepreneurs, there are not
many identifiable investments that need term loans.
v.    Regular inspection and examination of rural banks is essential for maintaining the viability of
the rural banking system.
vi.   Training for all levels of staff of RBs should be conducted on a continuous basis.
Project Implementation Agency
The RFID of Bank of Ghana was responsible for coordinating project implementation, financial
accounting procurement, monitoring, including compliance with Bank policies and procedures.
The implementing agency efficiency in processing sub loan applications was initially hampered
owing to lack of computers. There was a delay in the procurement of the computers. In spite of
this, the RFID performed creditably as the processing time of application was reduced to
reasonable limits. Audit reports were submitted on time. Initial problems with submission of
7



replenishment applications were overcome following RFID staff participation in a workshop
organized at the Resident Mission.
Project Sustainability
It is likely that benefits gained under the project would be sustained because of governments
commnitment to provide resources to continue with some of the activities camried out under the
project.
Presently the BOG is conunitted to providing funds to sustain training of RB staff and directors.
The Bank would also continue to play its statutory role as the supervisor of the banking industry.
The repayments from PFIs of matured sub-loans may be recycled in order to sustain the on-lending
scheme at least for the RBs to ensure that the enthusiasm of the banks does not wane.
Bank Performance
Bank Performance in identification preparation, appraisal and supervision of the subject was
satisfactory. The bank responded in a timely manner to proposals by Government to amend certain
aspects of the design of the project which were hampering smooth implementation. The Bank was
flexible in realization of funds from slow-moving categories to newly created categories and in
extending the closing date on two occasions. The Accra Resident Mission was very helpfuil
through the offer of advice and facilitating in submission of request to Washington where
necessary.
Government Performance
Goverunent Performance was satisfactory. A great deal of attention and support was received
from Governrnent in tackling various issues relating to the effective implementation of the project.
Governnent seems conumitted to providing an efficient rural financial intermediation. There was
no interference from Governrnent in operational matters. Government's compliance with major
loan covenants was satisfactory.
Post-Implementation Operational Plan
In order to build on the experience gained under the RFP which formally closed on 31st December,
1994 and also to ensure the sustainability of the benefits gained, the GOG would provide resources
for the post-implementation operational phase. For the on-lending scheme, the Counterpart Fund
into which the repayment of matured sub-loans are lodged would be recycled into the rural financial
sector. The balance on the Counterpart Fund stood at 2.0 billion as at 31st December, 1994. This
would ensure sustainable flow of resources to the agriculture and related sectors.
On institution building, the BOG would continue to support the ARB in conducting RB staff and
directors training programmes. The Bank has already committed funds for the ARB's 1995
training budget, having already financed the Association's 1994 training Budget.
8



The role of RFID and BSD as supervisory authority over rural financial intermediation would as
usual be catered for by BOG.
The BOG would also act as facilitators in the voluntary liquidation of rural banks classified as
distressed.
It is also expected that a Project Preparatory facility would be obtained for preparing a second RFP
and as well as fund the replication of pilot programme on the Famers Services Centre
Cooperatives (FSCCs).
Table 6 shows the financial commnitments for the Post-implementation operational plan (covering
the period 1995 to 1997).
9



TABLE 1
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT - GHANA
DISBURSEMENT STATUS AS AT 31 ST DECEMBER 1994
CATEGORY                            ALLOCATED         AMOUNT DISBURSED
($M)              ($M)
SUB-LOANS                               15.86              15.84
CONSULTANCY &TRAINING                    4.00               4.12
EQUIPMENT & VEHICLE                      0.36               0.34
CIVIL WORKS                              0.17               0.01
OPERATING COSTS: RFID                    0.32               0.16
OPERATING COSTS: ARB                     0.16               0.02
REFINANCING OF PPF                       0.20               0.20
TOTAL                                   21.07              20.69



TABLE 2
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT - GHANA
SUB-LOANS DISBURSED (MILLION)
PFI              1991       1992       1993       1994     TOTAL   % OF   BENEFICIARIES
TOTAL
ADB             760.2      129.1    2,771.7    3,671.4    7,332.4      74.1%        2,674
GCB               0.0       42.1       51.6        0.0       93.7       0.9%Y          24
EFC               0.0      621.6        0.0        0.0      621.6       6.3%           68
SCB              61.1        0.0        0.0        0.0       61.1       0.6%          150
RBS              39.5      311.9    1,218.8      211.0    1,781.2      18.0%       13,116
TOTAL           860.8    1,104.7   4,042.1    3,882.4   9,890.0    100.0%          16,032



TABLE 3
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT - GHANA
REPAYMENT STATUS OF SUB-LOANS ('000)
PFI                DISBURSED            REPAID                BALANCE
ADB                   7,332,413               841,111              6,491,302
GCB                     93,664                 10,064                83,600
SCB                     61,128                 61,128                     0
EFC                     621,600               621,600                     0
RURAL BANKS (26)      1,781,268               498,000              1.283,268
TOTAL                9,890,073             2,031,903              7,858.170



TABLE 4
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT - GHANA
REPAYMENT SCHEDULE - SUB LOANS ($MILLION)
PFI      JUN'93  SEP'93  DEC'93  MAR'94  JUN'94  SEP'94  DEC'94  MAR'95  JUN'95  SEP'95  DEC'95  MAR'96  JUN'96.
ADB         497.9    151.0     28.9     30.0     46.6      16.3    70.3    133.0   437.8  1617.2    455.4    40.8 35    7
GCB          10.1                                                                     11.6     40.0
EFC         269.8    197.6             154.2
SCB          61.1
RBS         45.2              189.6              26.1             599.2    262.3    119.6    101.3   181.8       13.5     36.3
TOTAL       884.1    348.6    218.5    184.2     72.7      16.3   669.5    395.3    569.0   1658.5   637.2    54.3        72.0
== = =  = = =    = = = == = = =    = = =  = = === = = == = ==  = = =  = == == = = =3 = === = = =    = = =
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



SEP'96 DEC'96 MAR'97 JUN'97 SEP'97 DEC'97 SEP'98 MAR'99 DEC'99 JUN'00 SEP'00 TOTAL
158.5   2211.8     12.8               80.8             189.6    721.7    210.3    123.6    162.4  7332.4
32.0                                                   93.7
621.6
61.1
15.3     56.3     33.4     29.5      22.6     49.3                                                 1781.3
173.8   2268.1     46.2     29.5    103.4      81.3    189.6    721.7    210.3    123.6    162.4  9890.1
2~



TABLE 5
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT - GHANA
CLASSIFICATION OF RURAL BANKS
SATISFACTORY
NAME OF RURAL BANK       LOCATION         REGION
1 OKOMFO ANOKYE       WIAMOASE           ASHANTI
2 SEKYERE              JAMASI             ASHANTI
3 ATWIMA MPONUA        TOASE              ASHANTI
4 AMANSIE WEST         ANTOAKROM          ASHANTI
5 ATOBIASE AREA        ATOBIASE           ASHANTI
6 ASANTE AKYEM        JUANSA              ASHANTI
7 NWABIAGYA            BAREKESE           ASHANTI
8 OTUASEKAN            KOFIASE            ASHANTI
9 SEKYEDOMASE          SEKYEDOMASE        ASHANTI
10 AMANANO             NYINAHIN           ASHANTI
11 JUABENG             JUABENG            ASHANTI
12 TANO                NTOTROSO-GYEDU    BRONG AHAFO
13 YAPRA               PRANG              BRONG AHAFO
14 KINTAMPO            KINTAMPO           BRONG AHAFO
15 BADUMAN             BADU               BRONG AHAFO
16 NSOATREMAN           NSOATRE           BRONG AHAFO
17 WAMFIE              WAMFIE             BRONG AHAFO
18 DERMA AREA          DERMA              BRONG AHAFO
19 ENYAN DENKYIRA      ENYAN DENKYIRA     CENTRAL
20 KAKUM               ELMINA             CENTRAL
21 AKATAKYIMAN          KOMENDA            CENTRAL
22 NYAKROM             AGONA NYAKROM       CENTRAL
23 AKYEMPIM             GOMOA D0 WURAMPON CENTRAL
24 AKOTI                ASSIN AKROPONG     CENTFRAL
25 AGONA                KWANYAKU           CENTRAL
26 BRAKWA BREMAN        BRAKWA             CENTRAL
27 MANYA KROBO          ODUMASE KROBO      EASTERN
28 KWAHU                PEPEASE           EASTERN
29 AKUAPIM              MAMFE              EASTERN
30 DUMPONG              OFRAMOASE          EASTERN
31 KWAEBIBIRIM          ASUOM              EASTERN
32 UPPER MANYA KRO      ASESEWA            EASTERN
33 MUMUADU              OSINO              EASTERN
34 ANUM                 ANUM               EASTERN
35 ATIWA                KWABENG            EASTERN
36 SOUTH AKIM           NANKESE            ESATERN
37 LA COMMUNITY        LA                  GT. ACCRA
38 GA                   AMASAMAN           GT. ACCRA
39 ADA                  KASSEH             GT. ACCRA
40 DANGBE               PRAMPRAM           GT. ACCRA
41 ABOKOBI AREA         ABOKOBI            GT. ACCRA
42 KUMBUGU              KUMBUNGU           NORTHERN
43 WEST MAMPRUSI        WALEWALE           NORTHERN
44 BESSFA               GARU               UPPER EAST
45 NAARA                PAGA               UPPER EAST
46 AGAVE                DABALA             VOLTA
47 MEPE AREA            MEPE               VOLTA
48 KAASEMAN             KAASE             WESTERN
49 BIATORYA             SCO ISU NKWANTA    WESTERN
50 ASAWINSO            SEFWI ASAWINSO      WESTERN
51 UPPER AMENFI         ANKWASO           WESTERN
52 LOWER PRA           SHAMA              WESTERN
53 BOGOSO AREA         BOGOSO             WESTERN
54 MANSOMAN            MANSO AMENFI       WESTERN
55 AHANTAMAN           AGONA NKWANTA      WESTERN



-    MEDIOCRE
NAME OF RURAL BANK       LOCATION         REGION
1 ATWIMA KWANWOMAN    PAKYI NO.2          ASHANTI
2 AHAFO ANO PREMIER    WIOSO              ASHANTI
3 KUMAWUMAN            KUMAWU             ASHANTI
4 BOSOMTWE             KUNTANASE          ASHANTI
5 ATWIMA               FOASE              ASHANTI
6 KWAMAMAN             KWAMAN             ASHANTI
7 ODOTOBRI            JACOBU              ASHANTI
8 ADANSI               FOMENA             ASHANTI
9 ASOKORE              ASOKORE            ASHANTI
10 FIAGYA               BUSUNYA            BRONGAHAFO
11 SUBINSO              SUBINSO NO.2       BRONG AHAFO
12 KYIDOM               NSUTA              BRONG AHAFO
13 BOMM AREA            BOMM               BRONG AHAFO
14 SUMA                SUMA AHENKRO        BRONG AHAFO
15 ASUTIFI             ACHERENSUA          BRONG AHAFO
16 TANO AGYA           DADIESOABA          BRONG AHAFO
17 NKORANMAN           SEIKWA              BRONG AHAFO
18 ASUNAFO             AKRODIE             BRCO' A.HAFO
19 NKORANZA KWABRE     AKUMA-NKORANZA    BRONG AHAFO
20 TWIFO                TWIFO AGONA        CENTRAL
21 EKUMFIMAN            ESSUEHYIA          CENTRAL
22 AWUTU EMASA          AWUTU BEREKU       CENTRAL
23 GOMOA                APAM               CENTRAL
24 GOMOA AJUMAKO        GOMOA AFRANSI      CENTRAL
25 ASSINMAN             ASSIN MANSO        CENTRAL
26 BAWJIASE AREA        AWUTU BAWJIASE     CENTRAL
27 NYANKUMASI AHENKRO   FANTI NYANKUMASI   CENTRAL
28 EASTERN GOMOA ASSIN  GOMOA DOMINASE    CENTRAL
29 AFRAM                TEASE              EASTERN
30 AKYEM MANSA          AYIREBI            EASTERN
31 KWAHU PRASO          KWAHU PRASO        EASTERN
32 SOUTH BIRIM          ACHIASE            EASTERN
33 MPONUA               AMUANA PRASO       EASTERN
34 ATWEAMAN             AKIM AKROSO        EASTERN
35 AKIM BOSOME          AKIM SWEDRU        EASTERN
36 ODWEN ANOMA          ABETIFI            EASTERN
37 ASUOPRA              &'OSU              EASTERN
38 SHAI                 DODOWA             GT. ACCRA
39 LANG ABAR HUM        TUNA               NORTHERN
40 SONZELE              JIRAPA             UPPER WEST
41 NANDOM               NANDOM             UPPER WEST
42 UNITY                ZIOPE              VOLTA
43 WETO                 KPEVE              VOLTA
44 AVENOR               AKATSI             VOLTA
45 GUAMAN               GUAMAN             VOLTA
46 NORTH TONGU          ADIDOME            VOLTA
47 JOMORO               TIKOBO NO.1        WESTERN
48 AMENFIMAN            WASA AKROPONG      WESTERN
49 NZEMA MANLE          AWIEBO             WESTERN
50 KWAKWADUAM           SEFWI-BOAKO        WESTERN
51 SEFWI BEKWAIMAN      SEFWI BEKWAI       WESTERN
2



DISTRESSED
NAME OF RURAL BANK       LOCATION         REGION
1 AFRANCHOMAN          AFRANCHO           ASHANTI
2 AKROFUOM AREA        AKROFUOM           ASHANTI
3 KWAME DANSO          KWAME DANSO        BRONGAHAFO
4 ABURA                ABURAABOASE        CENTRAL
5 SENYA                SENYA BEREKU       CENTRAL
6 BIRIWA               BIRIWA             CENTRAL
7 AYANFURI             AYANFURI           CENTRAL
8 ABEADZEMAN           ABEADZE DOMINASE   CENTRAL
9 SOUTH AKUAPIM        PAKRO              EASTERN
10 AFRONUAHWE           AKOASE             EASTERN
11 ABUAKWA             AKIM ASAFO         EASTERN
12 UNIVERSAL            EHI               VOLTA
13 WORAWORA             WORAWORA          VOLTA
14 AKAN WAWA            DODO AMANFROM      VOLTA
15 VOLTA                WUDIDI             VOLTA
16 UNITE,               UKPE KUKURANTUMI   VOLTA
17 NORVISI              SHIA               VOLTA
18 VOLTA PREMIER        DZELUKOPE         VOLTA
19 ESIAMA               ESIAMA            WESTERN
3



TABILE 6
RURAL FINANCE MOJEC - GHANA
FOST IMLEM1E1NATlrCN OPERATCINAL
PHASE PLAN
F=       -   =^1995                           1996                 19Q7
i_AC'T_IVITY IT   COVERAGE   COST    COVF.RZAGE  COST    COVERAGE  COST
ON-LENDING  -  40 RBs        02.5b    5o RBs      s3.5b    55 RBs      04.5b
RECY'CLING OF
C TLNqD - RBS                                                                _
TRAINING -      1141 Staff   082.2m   525 staff   #75.0     1166
ARB             & Directors                                staff &    j1O6rn
directors
RB              125 RBs      0125m   111 RBs    0135m    116 RBs    l15Om
EXAMINATION
&I
INSPECTION_________
REPLICATION     5 FSCC"s    $0.25m   5 FSCC's   $0.35m   5 FSC'CC's   $0.235m
OF UPPER
WEST FSCC' s
PR[X OG RA.M                  .



Appendix C
BURKINA FASO      
r                                       r                                 r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A 
GKANA
RURAL FINANCE
NORMERN                    ~~~~~PROJECT
Distribution of
Rural Banks
D'IVOIRE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                      h.IN
HANI;TOGO I* 1- 'Tp-                           T      O
t-. .                                    .
04
L~*\            SF OF CUNfA
.\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -, =- - -
GV I F OF GUINEA 
|~~~~~~~~~ -
i~~~~~ ~~~~~~ L-    -  'W



I






dIDT  : dA,
:19,                  '  I  :Oj    '4 .,N0'd',4
O!N  1 'T CV   1



