Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C#z s°-e Y°o - 
Report No. 7554-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REr'UBLIC OF GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
APRIL 19! 1989
Africa Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations Division
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only In the performance of
their offkhiiJm duffes. Its contents may not otherwise be dicosed without World Bank a_uthozation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currercy Unit   -    Cedi (0)
US$1   -    0250
01   -    US$0.004
Ghana has dual exchange rates, one determined by the auction and the other
by the foreign exchange bureau. The rates for US$1 in October 1988 were 0
231 for the auction and 0290 for the foreign exchange bureaux. For project
analysis a base rate of ¢250 to US$1 was used, and for project years 1
through 3, purchasing power parity exchange rates of 0260, 0269 and 0278,
respectively, were used.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Agricultural Development Bank
AfDB      -    African Development Bank
ARB       -    Association of Rural Banks
ASRP      -    Agricultural Services Rehabilitation Project
BOG       -    Bank of Ghana
CAMEL     -    Capital, Asset Quality, Management. Earnings, Liquidity
GCB       -    Ghana Commercial Bank
CCA       -    Canadian Cooperative Association
CGF       -    C.edit Guarantee Fund
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
COCOBOD   -    Cocoa Marketing Board
CU        -    Credit Union
CUA       -    Ghana Cooperative Credit Unions Association
DOSRI     -    Directors, Officers, Shareholders and Related Insiders
DRC       -    Domestic Resource Cost
ERP       -    Economic Recovery Program
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSAC      -    Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GFDC      -    Ghana Food Distribution Corporation
GNPA      -    Ghana National Procurement Agency
GOG       -    Government of Ghana
GSC       -    Ghana Seed Company
GTZ       -    Deutsche Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA       -    International Development Association
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
NGO       -    Non-Governmental Organization
RB        -    Rural Bank
RBD       -    Rural Banking Department of BOG
RPD       -    Rural Finance Department
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................   iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ...............................................                    1
lI. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A.   Economic Setting ......................................                    2
B.    The Agricultural Sector
1.   Role in the Economy ..............................                  3
2.   Government Objectives ............................                  3
3.   Performance ..........................                 .            3
4.   Farm Input Supply and Distribution ...............                  6
5.   Agricultural Pricing and Marketing ...............                  7
6.   Extension Services ..............................8. 
7.    Medium Term Agricultural
Development Program ............................                9
C.    Rural Pinancial Sector
1.    Structure ........................................                 9
2.    Performance ......................................                10
3.   Rural Credit Demand ..............................                 15
D.    Bank Group Assistance
1.   Previous Bank Group Involvement in
the Agricultural Sector ........................    17
2.   Bank Group Role in the Agricultural Sector .......    18
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Rationale and Objectives ......................    19
B.    Project Description ...................................    20
1.   Credit Component .................................    20
2.    Institution-Building .............................    20
C.    Project Cost and Financing Plan .......................    26
D.    Procurement ...........................................    28
E.    Disbursements .........................................    29
F.   Special Account .......................................    31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriza:on.



IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Institutional Arrangements ............................  31
B.  Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks    .........  31
C.  Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects ................  32
D.  Onlending Terms and Conditions ........................  33
E.  Project Implementation ............ . .... .............. .   33
P.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements .......  34
V. *JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS               ......  35
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.....................   36
2-1 Key Economic Indicators
2-2 Composite View of Ghana's Banking Sector
2-3 Regional Distribution of Banks
2-4 Lowering Transaction Costs
2-5 Rural Banks Establishment Profile
2-6 Deposit Liabilities of Rural Banks
2-7 Informal Financial Sector
3-I. Proposed Actions
3-2 Investment Activity Models
3-3 Restructuring of Rural Banks
3-4 Technical Assistance to the Association of Rural Banks
3-5 Credit Union Development
3-6 Strengthening Farmer Cooperatives
3-7 Rural Finance Policy Analysis Mechanism
3-8 Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies
3-9 Project Cost Estimates
Table 1. Project Cost Summary
Table 2. Project Components by Year
Table 3.  Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4.  Summary Account by Project Component
3-10 Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-1 Project Implementation Schedule
5   Documents Available in the Project File
Maps No. IBRD 15116R3 Rainfall and Ecological Zones
IBRD 18395R2 Soil Suitability for Crop Production
IBRD 21317   Distribution of Rural Banks
*   This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which
visited Ghana in October 1988, consisting of Messrs. Sakwa Bunyasi
(Leader), S. Thillairajah, and Ms. Kiran Singh (Bank), Messrs. Armand
Mercier (Canadian Cooperative Association) and Dale Magers (World
Council of Credit Unions), and Mr. Barry Deren and Ms. Irja Woren
(Consultants). Mr. J.D. von Piscbke participated in an earlier
mission. Ms. Maria Kail provided secretarial support.



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Government of Ghana.
Amount:        SDR 15.2 million (US$20.0 million equivalent).
Termst         Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending
Termst         The Government would make the proceeds of the US$20.0
million equivalent IDA credit to the Bank of Ghana (BOG) for
the following purposes: a line of credit of US$15.0 million
equivalent would be made available for onlending, through
eligible banks, to rural sector borrowers; and the balance
for technical assistance related to institution-building,
studies, training, equipment and vehicles; and other
development costs. BOG would onlend the US$15.0 million
equivalent to eligible banks at variable, market-determined
rates, equal to the average rates paid by national level
banks on six-monthly fixed deposits (about 21 percent in
October 1988), with an amortization period not exceeding 10
years including 3 years grace. The final onlending rates to
individual borrowers would be variable and determined by
individual banks.
Proiect
Description:   The main objectives of the project are to (a) expand the
productive capacity and employment in the rural sector by
providing financing for viable subprojects in agriculture,
livestock, fisheries, artisanal agro-processing, and input
supplies; (b) implement a financial restructuring program
for Rural Banks (RBs) and strengthen Credit Unions (CUs), to
enable them to become more efficient in mobilizing resources
and in credit delivery, especial.ly to smallholders; (c)
strengthen the Association of Rural Banks (ARB) and the
Credit Unions Association (CUA), two important local NGOs
that are promoting financial intermediation in informal
sectors; (d) build an enhanced capacity for the appraisal of
rural credits; (e) strengthen RB Examination Unit; and (f)
build a local capacity for research in rural finance policy.
To achieve the above objectives, the project would comprise
the two components: (i) a line of credit; and (ii)
institution building comprising technical assistance for the
restructuring of about 80 out of the total 120 Rural Banks
in operation in 1988; the strengthening of the ARB and the



- iv -
CUAs rationalizing the roles of the Rural Banking Department
(RBD) and ARB; improving rural credit appraisal capacity of
RBs and selected commercial banksg strengthening BOG
capacity for RB Examination: and strengthening rural
cooperatives. A Rural Finance Department would be created
in BOG to implement the project and to serve as a nucleus of
a permanent institutional arrangement for implementing rural
finance projects.
Estimated
Costs$
Local          Forei&n          Total
j--USS million-----------
Line of Credit                        8.0             20.0            28.0
Institution-Building                  2.8              6.2             9.0
Rural Finance Department              0.2              0.8             1.0
Total                11.0             27.0            38.0
Financins Plant
Local          Foreian          Tocal
-US---$-----us$ million-----------
IDA                             1.4             18.6             20.0
Cofinanciers                    0.5              8.4              8.9
Government                      1.1               -               1.1
Participating Banks             5.0                               5.0
Borrowers                       3.0                               3.0
Total                11.0            27.0             38.0
mm                -



-v-
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Funds
1989190    1990/91    1991192    1992193
-US$ million Equivalent--------
Annual                1.6         6.0         7.0        5.4
Cumulative            1.6         7.6       14.6        20.0
Justification
and Risks:      Greater access to rural credit is needed in Ghana to
increase smallholder productivity, enhance rural business
development, create rural employment opportunities and meet
the financial needs of smallholder borrowers. A well
functioning rural financial system is important in this
process because of its crucial role in mobilizing and
allocating resources, in facilitating market exchange,
promoting specialization and market development, and in
providing investable resources necessary for rural capital
formation and growth. Ghana is in the process of
strengthening its rural financial system. There are
significant policy, institutional, and operational
constraints that have inhibited the mobilization of
resources and constrained the aveilability of credit to
productive rural activities. This project will:
(a) improve the efficiency of rural financial intermediation
by strengthening rural financial institutions through a
program of financial restructuring and staff training in
managerial and financial skills; (b) increase efficiency
through the restructuring of RBs which will enhance their
capacity to mobilize increased resources and increase credit
to the rural sector; (c) expand the volume of rural
financial intermediation through an injection of resources;
and (d) improve the links with the informal sector through
support for RBs and CUs both of which provide financial
services to small clients and informal operators, further
gains will be made through improved links between Comiercial
and Development Banks on the one hand, and RBs and CUs on
the other as the latter become more effective and efficient
financial intermediaries; (e) help growth of CUs which
represent one of the main sources of smallholder credit,
with loan funds generated through small savings mobilized
through their own network.  Thus their members benefit
twices first, through the inculcation and reinforcement of
a savings habit, and second, through increased access to
credit. An additional positive feature is that farmers own
and control their Credit Unions thus giving them the
opportunity to participate fully in decision-making and the
development of



- vi -
their own institutions; (f) given the difficulty of
mobilizing term deposits, project funds would provide
urgently needed resources and stimulate growth in the medium
term; (g) support the development of a policy analysis and
program monitoring capacity in rural finance, thus improving
the information and analytical base for the Government's
management of the rural financial sector; and (h) provide
long term benefits of training and technical assistance in
developing skills essential for the sustainability of rural
financial intermediation.
The main risk of the project is the possible reluctance of
the banks to significantly increase credit to the rural
b'ctor which they perceive as being more risky than the
financing of large scale comaerce, trade or transport
activities. Other risks possibly are the inability of banks
to make good loans; the unwillingness of RBs and CUs to
participate in the financial restructuring; and BOG's
limited capacity to manage the restructuring program. These
risks will be minimized by requiring that: (a) banks that
need additional resources from BOG contribute 20 percent of
the total financing requirements; (b) for RBs that are
unwilling to restructure, BOG would enforce changes via the
enforcement of prudential regulations, and by the exercise
of its power to close banks that are not financially sound;
(c) BOG's ability to manage the restructuring program will
be enhanced by technical assistance support; and (d) the
flow of credit need not be constrained by the pace of
restructuring so long as banks improve loan appraisal and
follow-up proposed under the project. Finally, the mid-term
review will provide an opportunity to reorient the project
should unforeseen problems arise.



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ghana (GOG) has requested an IDA Credit of
US$20 million for a Rural Finance Project to help increase the volume,
improve efficiency and ensure sustainability of rural financial
intermediation.  In 1983 the Government launched an Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) to improve producer incentives; restore fiscal and monetary
discipline; encourage private sector development; and restore the country's
social, economic and physical infrastructure. Under the ERP, the
Government initiated macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms to develop
the agricultural sector on the basis of competitiveness, efficiency and
equity. In spite of the positive initial response to these reforms, the
productivity of small-holders, who account for nearly 80 percent of
agricultural production, is very low compared with the potential.  The low
productivity is largely attributable to the inadequate dissemination of
technological packages, ineffective input delivery systems, inadequate
infrastructure and inefficient markets. The Government has initiated
programs for: (a) strengthening the farm input supply system through
progressive privatization; (b) revitalizing the extension system through
programs to strengthen dissemination of technical messages; and
(c) rehabilitation of the physical infrastructure to improve communication
and reduce marketing costs. Rural credit would play an important role by
providing funds for increased farmer outlays that would be expected to
arise from adopting improved technical packages in particular and
modernizing agriculture in general. It would also facilitate the
achievement of Government objectives of increasing investment in rural
economic activities aimed at increasing the production of food and
industrial raw materials and thus also creating more rural employment
opportunities. Credit could play a catalytic role in increasing
productivity by facilitating the purchase of farm implements, improved seed
and fertilizer where prices have increased several fold because of exchnge
rate adjustments and subsidy removal. Other critical rural credit needs
include financing on-farm investment and the economic activities of agro-
processors, input supply traders, and rural transporters who require
investment and working capital. The flow of credit has been constrained by
a weak institutional base, inadequate funds for term lending, and high
risks associated with rural lending (para. 2.20-2.31).
1.02      The Rural Finance Project is in line with, and reinforces IDA's
lending strategy in the financial sector for Ghana which seeks, through the
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC), to improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation by deregulation of interest rates, removal of
lending quotas, strengthening of the regulatory framework and enhancing the
bank examination capacity of the Bank of Ghana. These macro-financial
reforms and institutional strengthening would be complemented by two sector
specific interventions. The Small and Medium Enterprises Project (Report
No. 7440-GH) will provide additional medium term resources through the



-2-
banking system to new and existing private entrepreneurs, while the
proposed Rural Finance Project will provide additional medium term
resources and extend the macro reforms to the rural financial sector. The
proposed project would provide an integrated package of financial and
technical assistance services to rural financial intermediaries and through
them to rural private sector productive enterprises and activities. It
includes the following components: (a) a line of credit to be administered
through the banking system; and (b) institution building comprising the
restructuring of Rural Banks; strengthening of financial management of
Credit Unions, building the capacity of the Association of Rural Banks and
of the Credit Unions Association to provide improved services to their
members; strengthening rural credit appraisal; building a stronger capacity
for Rural Banks examination; and developing an apex unit for managing rural
finance programs, rural finance policy research and program monitoring.
1.03      The total financing for the project would be about US$38 million
equivalent including US$27.0 million in foreign exchange. The proposed IDA
credit of US$20.0 million would cover 53 percent of total financing
required, cofinanciers would provide US$8.9 million equivalent or 23
percent of total financing, and the balance would be provided by the
participating banks (131), borrowers (8X) and Government (3X).
1I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Economic Setting
2.01      A detailed review of the performance of the economy is dealt
vith in two recent economic reports which have been issued on the Ghanaian
economy: one is entitleds Ghana: Policies and Issues of Structural
Adjustment (Report No. 7515-GH), January 23, 1989, and the other is the
Policy Framework Paver (Report No. SecM88-1114), October 1988. The key
economic indicators are in Annex 2-1 of this report.
2.02      Ghana is well endowed with natural and human resources. Agri-
culture accounts for about half of GDP and provides income for about 70
percent of the population. Ghana is the world's third largest producer of
cocoa, which accounts for about two-thirds of the country's export
earnings. The country possesses valuable mineral deposits, particularly
gold. Services, which account for over a third of GDP, are dominated by
retail and wholesale trade. Ghana's economic performance in the 1970s was
generally poor: between 1970 and 1982, per capita income declined by 30
percent, import volumes declined by a third, real export earnings halved,
domestic savings and investment fell in real terms, and inflation averaged
about 44 percent per year. Since the launching of the ERP in 1983, GDP
growtlh has averaged approximately 5 percent a year, about 2 percent above
the population growth rate.
2.03      The objectives of the ERP for the period 1988-91 are continued
economic growth, sustained fiscal and monetary discipline, increased
domestic savings and investment, improved efficiency of public sector
resource management, and development of the private sector. To achieve



- 3 -
these basic objectives, the Government's policy framework includess
(a) further improvements in incentives for efficient production through
continued reforms in exchange rate and trade policies; (b) increased public
sector investment in the rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure; (c) measures to improve public sector savings and
allocation of expenditures; (d) reform of the state enterprise sector; and
(e) improvements in economic management. To support the ongoing reforms,
and to facilitate the restructuring and rehabilitation of the economy,
Ghana needs an efficient and well functioning financial sector that can
mobilize savings, and provide short and medium-term credit for productive
investments in key growth sectors of the economy, particularly agriculture
and other rural-based activities.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1. Role in the Economy
2.04      Agriculture is the mainstay of the Ghana economy, accounting for
53 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) over the period 1975-87,
75 percent of the 1983-87 merchandise exports, employing about 55 percent
of the labor force. Some 63 percent of the population lives in rural
areas. Growth in the economy depends largely on the growth of the
agricultural sector.
2. Government Obiectives
2.05      The main development objectives in the agricultural sector
include: (i) improving food security through increases in the production
of food grains including maize, rice, sorghum and millet, of tubers and
root crops such as yam and cassava, as well as livestock and fisheries;
(ii) increasing agriculture's contribution to net foreign exchange earnings
through further increases in cocoa production and some increases though
modest in coffee production; the development of new export avenues
especially for horticultural crops, rubber, vegetable oils and coconuts;
and increases in timber production; (iii) creation of employment
opportunities by rehabilitating and expanding processing facilities,
especially those of corn-mills, rice-mills, sugar cane crushers, vegetable
oil mills and animal feeds; increasing the production of farm tools and
implements including oxen-drawn ploughs, hand toola, feed mixers, gari-
making equipment and cassava-graters; and increasing the supply of raw
materials, including cotton, palm oil, rubber, etc.; and (iv) improving
regional balance by  developing areas that have lagged behind economically
such as the Northern regions.
3. Performance
2.06      The bulk of the country's agricultural production (about 90
percent) is provided by small-scale farmers who use mainly low-yielding
traditional techniques. The main cereal staples are maize, rice, millet
and sorghum. Maize production in 1988 was a little above 500,000 metric
tons, which is equivalent to the production levels that prevailed in the
late 60s and early 70s.  Rice production in 1988 increased 45 percent over



- 4 -
the 1984 levels to 110,000 tons although the five-year 1983-88 average is
about 80,000 tons, sorghum production has stagnated at about 140,000 tons
while millet has increased 7 percent to 190,000 tons in 1988. The starchy
staples have had a poor performance: cassava production reached a ten-year
peak in 1984 at 4.1 million tons, but has continually declined to about 3.0
million tons in 1988 due to disease problems and a diversification away
from cassava. Yam production has had a mixed performance, although it has
recorded modest increases since 1985, increasing by 11 percent to 1.0
million tons in 1987, and about 1.1 million tons in 1988. Cocoa production
rose steadily from an all-time low of 159,000 tons in 1983 to 228,000 tons
in 1986/87, and then declined to 183,000 tons in 1987/88 due to drought.
The improved incentive framework, comprising better producer prices, more
reliable agricultural input supplies, and improvements in the road and
transport infrastructure, has been the main stimulus to the increased
supply response achieved so far. However, productivity remains low. Maize
yields are about 300 kg/ha for small-scale traditional agriculture where no
fertilizer and unimproved seed are used in contrast to farmers who have
achieved at least a fourfold increase when using the fertilizer-improved
seed technology. For sorghum the yields are 260 kglha under traditional
techniques and about 1,500 kg/ha using the fertilizer-improved seed
technology. Low agricultural productivity persists mainly because of
inadequate supplies and the limited use of fertilizer and improved seed;
insufficient storage; inefficient transport system; and inadequate
extension support. Mlore rapid growth is possible if productivity can be
increased. Growth will depend on the extent to which smallholder
productivity can be raised while continuing to improve producer incentives,
marketing and the economic environment in general. Rural credit will be an
important ingredient in increasing the use of productivity-enhancing input
packages such as improved seed, fertilizer and storage.
2.07      With half of the country's area faced with uncertain and
insufficient rainfall, Government's strategy is to pursue development of
irrigation especially in the poorer and drier regions of the north to meet
its objective of food security, and improvement in the economic well-being
of the rural population. The Bankis sector review on irrigation, completed
in December 1986, Ghana: Irrigation Sector Review Report No. 6173-GB,
reviewed Ghana's experience witi irrigation and made the recommendatirn
that the decade of the nineties should be a period of consolidation and
learning for both farmers and the Ghana Irrigation Development Authority.
Irrigation schemes in the last decade had suffered from excessively high
unit costs per hectare, and performance had been disappointing. Ghans had
spent about US$200 million, in 1985 prices, on irrigation, that is,
approximately five percent of total public investment over that period.
Utith some exceptions, the schemes had, by and large, suffered from
inappropriate choice of location, design, construction procedures and
management systems, and from generally inadequate expenditures for
operation and maintenance. Government is now following a more prudent
approach where the focus will be on low cost small scale schemes, with
farmers being given the opportunity to play an active role in the planning
of their schemes, and their operation and maintenance.
2.08      Fishing and livestock contribute about 12 percent of
agricultural GDP and are an important source of protein in the average diet



- 5 -
of the majority of the population. Fish production in 1987 was about
303,000 tons, equivalent to a per capita supply of 23 kg. Possibilities
exist for a sustainable expansion of tuna production from the current catch
of 35,000 tons to 60,000 tons a year. Further information is required to
determine the potential for other capture fisheries. A World Bank-
sponsored fisheries sector review due to be completed in 1989 is expected
to provide additional information. There is also potential in culture
fisheries, especially in aquaculture. Current fish production is estimated
at 40,000 tons per year. The main constraint is inadequate fisheries
extension. The other constraints include a lack of spare parts for
servicing vessels and a lack of cold storage facilities. Only about 18,000
tons cold storage capacity is available in the sector as a whole. Ice
production is inadequate and when it is available, it is transported in
open trucks resulting in substantial waste. Canning facilities are limited
because of obsolescence of installed machinery (current capacity
utilization is about 40 percent). Fish smoking is the predominant form of
traditional preservation but current technology relies heavily on firewood.
Efforts are under way to improve fuel wood oven efficiency. The
distribution system is constrained by the poor road network and lack of
appropriate packaging both of which lead to significant spoilage.
2.09      The main livestock in the country are cattle and poultry, which
together account for about two thirds of the total meat production. Shuep,
goats and pigs account for the balance. The cattle population in 1988 was
estimated at about 1.3 million and growing at about 4.3 percent per year.
The off-take is estimated to vary between 7.5 percent and 11 percent which
would be equivalent to a maximum production of about 16,000 tons cold
dressed weight. Poultry meat production was estimated at about 15,000 tons
in 1988, while sheep, goats and pigs accounted for an additional 14,000
tons. The combined total meat production of 45,000 tons was only about 23
percent of the estimated national demand of 195,000 tons. Further
increases in meat production can be obtained in the short run through
cattle fattening programs. Trials from fattening programs on state farms
have shown weight gains in cattle of as much as one third of the carcass
weight. Poultry meat production is constrained by the scarcity of day old
chicks because of low capacity utilization of local hatcheries and by
irregular supplies of feed. Recent bumper harvests of maize should
increase supply of feed. Other important contributions of livestock are
draft power and milk. Bullock ploughing is used extensively in the
Northern Regions of Ghana. Surveys of smallholder use of draft power done
by Nyankpala Agricultural Experiment Station indicate that households that
used animal draft power cultivated 57 percent more land than those that
used only hoes, achieved a 16 percent higher yield, used more labor and
earned net farm incomes which were 32 percent higher than users of hoes.
Expansion of the program is constrained by the relatively high cost of
bullocks and implements, and adoption rates have risen in areas where local
banks have provided credit. Only a negligible amount of milk is produced
in Ghana and mainly in the Greater Accra Region. The potential exists for
producing enough milk to meet domestic demand which is currently met from
imports amounting to 10,000 tons of milk, cream and milk products. In all,
more cattle fattening programs, increased supply of poultry feed and
availability of working capital for hatcheries, should, in the short-run,
help to increase meat supply. In the long run, breeding considerations as



-6-
well as extension services will be important ingredients in a livestock
development strategy.
2.10      Agriculture's contribution to net foreign exchange earnings is
mainly through the export of cocoa, and on a small scale, coffee and shea
nuts. The level of crop husbandry on cocoa and coffee farms is very poor,
achieving only about half of the per unit potential productivitys 250
kg/ha as compared to 500 kg/ha for cocoa and coffee. The potential for
increasing rubber and coconut (copra) production is also high: presently
400 kg dry rubber as compared to 1,000 kg, and for copra 1,000 kg as
compared to 3,000 kg.  The potential for increasing productivity for
industrial crops is substantial too:  cotton yields are about 500 kg per
hectare on smallholder farms while the yield is 2.000 kg/ha on estates.
The main constraints impeding the realization of this potential are the
farmers' inability to provide labor for farm maintenance operations, use of
unimproved seed materials, insufficient fertilizer, and limited access to
credit.
2.11      A rapidly growing category of exports is "non-traditional"
exports: pineapples, yam, copra, fish and marine products. In 1987 the
value of non-traditional exports was about US$29 million, of which 65
percent were agricultural. Pineapple exports have been expanding rapidly
from about 1,800 tons in 1985, to 2,650 tons in 1986, 4,125 tons in 1987
and an estimated 5,200 tons in 1988. The potential exists for these
exports in natural and processed form. The main constraints are inadequate
domestic facilities for primary storage, port handling facilities and
unsuitable transport vehicles. A few entrepreneurs who have been able to
obtain bank credit have been successful, but a lot more needs to be done in
terms of identifying viable projects and ensuring their financing through
stronger rural financial institutions.
4. Farm Input Supply and Distribution
2.12      The distribution of farm tools, implemerts, and agro-chemicals
is done mainly by private sector companies, although public sector
commercial companies are also involved. Some banks were involved in the
importation and distribution of agricultural and fishing inputs, financed
through lines of credit from international lending institutions. Recent
measures easing import restrictions and improving access to foreign
exchange have enabled commercial houses to provide superior competition to
the banks in the handling of inputs. The main problems encountered in the
input supply system are in respect of fertilizer and seed.
2.13      Fertilizer is imported mainly by the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) through the Ghana National Procurement Agency (GNPA). Local
distribution is done through Government-owned farmers' service companies
(FASCOMe) in the Upper East and West Regions and in Volta Region, and by
MOA in other regions. The current level of subsidy on fertilizer is about
30 percent and will be reduced to 15 percent in 1989 and be eliminated in
1990. Subsidies on fertilizer, and inadequate supplies due to foreign
exchange shortages led to rationing such that the subsidy mostly benefited
large scale farmers. The public sector monopoly was characterized by late
arrivals, poor storage, inadequate volumes and frequent supplies of



inappropriate fertilizers. MOA, through the IDA-financed Agricultural
Services Rehabilitation Project (ASRP), is implementing reforms that are
privatizing domestic distribution and will eliminate the Government import
monopoly by 1991. MOA is also developing a monitoring system to ensure
timely importation of fertilizers. The removal of subsidies and the
privatization of fertilizer supplies will lead to higher prices and may
lead to a significant reallocation of resourcess marginal producers on the
upper end of the supply curve will find it unprofitable to use fertilizer,
on the other hand, low cost producers should expand its utilization.
Private sector supplies should be more timely and plentiful, and even
though higher prices will increase the farmers' financial outlays, there
will be a net financial gain to farmers. The increased outlays may lead to
a greater demand for credit.
2.14      Certified seed is supplied by the Ghana Seed Company (GSC) which
has good equipment and physical facilities. It produces foundation seed
from breeder seed made available from the Crops Research Institute. The
foundation seed is then issued to contract farmers for multiplication. GSC
is responsible for cleaning, processing and selling of the seed. Total
maize seed supplied by GSC between 1982 and 1987, was adequate to cultivate
about 5 percent of the maize land that was cultivated annually for that
period, the proportion for rice was 10 percent. GSC's capacity has
remained low for various reasons, including poor management, large
subsidies (about 50 percent) which have led to financial deficits, erratic
supply of seed and low quality (germination rates have been known to be as
low as 50 percent), and lack of seed inspection. MOA is reviewing measures
for strengthening the seed industry, and the FAO/CP is helping MOA to
prepare a seed strategy. Options include privatization of GSC operations,
and establishment of a seed quality control and certification program in
MOA.  Retailing is expected to be done through commercial outlets as in the
case of fertilizer.
5. Aaricultural Pricing and Marketing
2.15      Various agricultural pricing strategies are used:
administrative price setting for cocoa, coffee and shea nuts; price setting
by private sector monopolies for industrial crops like tobacco, palm oil
and cotton; and guaranteed minimum prices for feod crops like maize and
rice and free market pricing for yams, cassava, plantains, vegetables and
fruits. As part of the Economic Recovery Program, price fi:cation for cocoa
has aimed at providing higher real producer prices and the strategy has
succeeded in inducing rapid recovery in the cocoa sector even though the
domestic prices are only half the FOB prices. The guaranteed minimum
pricing for maize and rice has not operated effectively: the level at which
maize prices have been fixed has tended to be higher than what the buying
agency, the Ghana Food Distribution Corporation (GFDC) can afford to pay
and is currently higher than the cif price. Furthermore, GFDC can handle
no more than about 10 percent of the marketed surplus because of lack of
adequate funds and infrastructural constraints of storage, drying capacity
and transport.
2.16      Produce marketing is relatively inefficient because of lack of
storage capacity in the system and very poor roads which has led to high



- 8 -
marketing margins. An analysis of seasonal price movements over a twenty
year period clearly shows that food crop prices at least triple between
harvest time and the end of the crop season (prices typically rise four to
six times). This suggests that primary and secondary storage in the
private sector may be viable and that producer prices could be raised
through a more responsive storage strategy. Further developments in grain
production and pricing policy will depend to a large extent on the
Government's ability to develop cost-effective storage programs.
2.17      There are several policy and institutional problems with the
current agricultural pricing and marketing system. The guaranteed minimum
price for maize is based on a cost plus principle without regard to the
world market price. Actual purchases by the GFDC have been about 6 percent
at most, of marketed surplus since the 1982/83 crop year. The GFDC has not
been able to purchase enough to fill up its own 50,000 tons storage
capacity because of financial and logistical constraints. The timing and
quantity of grain imports (especially rice, but also maize in deficit
years) has tended to depress domestic prices. Most grain imports are from
food aid. The effect of food aid imports on domestic pricing warrants a
special review. There are wide marketing margins within and between
geographical areas because of poor roads and an inefficient information
system. Greater market integration would help to lower marketing margins.
6. Extension Services
2.18      MOA provides farm level extension services for non-cocoa
activities. Tha Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD) provides the services for
cocoa. Numerous organizations provide agricultural extension, some under
the umbrella of HOA including the Grain Development Board, Bast Fiber
Development Board, Ghana Irrigation Development Authority, two area
agricultural development projects based in the Volta Region and the Upper
Regions, and the Ghana German Agricultural Development Project. Other
extension services include those for tobacco (private) and cotton
(public/commercial). NGOs have also been active, in particular the
Sasakawa Global 2000 program which has successfully demonstrmted the
potential for increasing grain production in the northern regions, by using
improved seed and fer' ilizer. Despite all the numerous agencies, the
extension agent/farmer ratio is about 15000 while the ideal level for
developing countries at about the same level of development is ls500. Over
the years, as the country's economic conditions worsened, extension
services were neglected to a point where most of the public sector
expenditure on extension was salaries (the salary/non salary expenditure
ratio is about 9sl instead of a norm of 6s4 for countries at the same stage
of de-elopment). The Government has began to revitalize extensions a
separate department of agricultural extension has been established; MOA has
merged crop and livestock extension services in order to provide a unified
approach and minimize waste and duplication of effort; MOA, through the
support of ASRP, is testing new dissemination techniques in eight districts
on a pilot basis and is also funding short term rehabilitation needs
including equipment and logistical support. Further plans are already
under way to initiate training and provide mobility for the rest of the
extension system to be followed by an agricultural research and extension
project which is in IDA's pipeline.



-9-
7. Medium Term Agricultural DeveloPment Program
2.19      The Government in collaboration with IDA has initiated the
preparation of a Medium Term Agricultural Development Program (HTADP) whose
main objectives are: (i) to spell out the normative goals of the
agricultural development strategy to the year 2000; (ii) to articulate what
sectoral policy and institutional reforms are necessary in the medium term
(1990-1995) to help the sector achieve agreed goals; and (iii) to identify
medium term agricultural development programs and an agricultural public
investment program and expenditure priorities initially for the period
1990-1995. The MTADP would set out how best to develop Ghana's
agricultural potential to the fullest extent given the significant role of
the sector in realizing the Government's macroeconomic objectives of
growth, employment, regional balance and export diversification. It would
focus in particular on any additional policy and institutional reforms
necessary to stimulate agricultural production and on estimating the level
and pattern of public expenditures required to support agricultural
production by the private sector.
C. Rural Financial Sector
1. Structure
2.20      The rural financial system in Ghana comprises the informal
financial market which includes rotating savings and credit associations
and money lenders; eleven national level banks including the Ghana
Commercial Bank (GCB), Barclays Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, Social
Security Bank, National Savings and Credit Bank, Bank of Credit and
Commerce, Merchant Bank, Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), Ghana
Cooperative Bank, National Investment Bank, and Bank for Housing and
Construction; 120 Rural Banks (RBs); and about 300 Credit Unions (CUs).
The three largest commercial banks handled about 51 percent of the banking
system's loans as at end 1987. Ownership of national level banks is
predominantly public sector: the Government equity holdings vary between
30 and 100 percent. Most of the RBs have 15-25 percent Bank of Ghana
equity, the remainder is owned by the local communities. Credit Unions are
wholly private and it is likely that this factor has contributed to their
greater success compared to other financial institutions. (Annex 2-2)
2.21      Specialized banks have been evolving into full service banks
because their original areas of activity did not provide the revenues
necessary to maintain an acceptable return on their resources. The banks
have concentrated their loans mainly on industry and commerce: As of
December 1987, Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB) had a combined total of 50.!
percent of its resources in these two sectors and 25 percent in
agriculture; Barclays Bank had 78 percent in the same activities and 13
percent in agriculture; the proportions for Standard Chartered were 70
percent and 20 percent, respectively. The structure of deposits is
predominantly short term: as of December 1987 current and demand deposits
for GCB accounted for 96.5 percent of its deposits (3.5 percent were fixed
time deposits). The ratios for Barclays were 79.3 percent (20.7 percent



- 10 -
fixed deposits) and for Standard Chartered 78.4 percent (21.6 percent fixed
deposits). The Agriculture Development Bank (ADB) had 99.5 percent in
current and demand deposits and only 0.5 percent in fixed deposits. RBs'
liabilities are also of a short term nature.
2.22      The geographical distribution, similar to the population
distribution, is concentrated in the Southern third of the country: of the
total of 446 bank branches (including RBs) as of July 1988, the Greater
Accra and Ashanti Regions had 76 and 71 branches respectively, followed by
Eastern (65). The least represented regions being the Upper West Region
(7) and the Northern and Upper East Regions with 12 each. The distribution
of deposits is much more concentrated: the Greater Accra Region had 67
percent of all deposits in the banking system as of December 1987, followed
by the Ashanti Region with 10 percent, Western 6.5 percent and at the tail
end Northern and the two Upper Regions with a combined total of 2.7
percent. The challenge is to provide banking facilities to areas with
economic potential such as the Northern Regions and the Western Regions.
(Annex 2-3)
2. Performance
Deposit Mobilization
2.23      Aggregate deposits in the banking system as of December 1987
were $83.5 billion of which 59 percent were from the three largest
commercial banks, 3 percent from RBs and 38 percent from the rest of the
banking system. Average deposits per bank in the big three were ¢241
million and about ¢19 million for the RBs. Approximately 40 percent of
broad money (M2) is outside of the banking system. Informed Ghanaian
bankers believe that the funds are held by affluent traders and wealthy
individuals who are skeptical about banking confidentiality because of
Government measures five years ago: to freeze accounts while investigating
tax liabilities, recalling loans used to finance inventories, and the
demonetization of large denomination notes. It may also be a response to
negative real returns on bank deposits. In rural areas the banking system
offers very poor quality servicess processing of deposits and withdrawals
takes several hours and in some instances customers find no cash and have
to visit the bank again to obtain cash. In contrast local money
dealerships such as the 'susu' (para 2.32) provide fast service. The
challenge for the banking system as a whole and the rural financial sector
in particular, is to mobilize more of the money outside of the banking
system. In rural areas it does not seem as if positive real interest rates
are crucial in mobilizing additional deposits as is evidenced by the fact
that the Susu system is predicated on negative nominal rates. Rural
communities seem to place a higher premium on convenience, accessibility
and trust. To promote rural deposit mobilization, banks need to improve
the quality and range of financial services, for instance, currently banks
calculate interest on savings accounts by applying the going rate on the
lowest deposit in a six month period and in some cases even this
calculation is not done regularly. Other measures may include cutting
personnel costs through staff reductions; increasing the deposit base
through aggressive marketing; improving the quality of records to
facilitate transactions and reduce turn around time. The Government could



- 11 -
reinforce such a trend by introducing a deposit insurance scheme for
deposits, vithin specified limits, in order to instill confidence.
Credit Allocation
2.24      Sectoral allocation of credit was controlled by the Bank of
Ghana (BOG) through a system of mandatory lending to agriculture (including
forestry and fishing) and credit ceilings for other sectors.   Other
interventions included concessional interest rates for three priority
sectors: agriculture, export trade and manufacturing. These controls have
been removed, to allow banks to make loans on the basis of profitability
and institutional sustainability. The exception is the minimum lending
quota to agriculture which will be reviewed in December 1989. Since the
overriding problem now is institutional viability, the minimum quota should
be abolished to allow banks complete freedom of loan types while they are
under rehabilitation. Funds to priority sectors are also channelled
through lines of credit to development finance institutions. Commercial
banks have been reluctant to increase their level of direct financing of
agriculture, largely on account of high administrative costs of such
lending, risks inherent in rainfed agriculture, small dispersed borrowers
and because they are more geared to financing urban trade and ivdustry.
Agriculture's share of total credit has been declining since _983.  Over
the five year period 1983-87, the share declined from 32 percent in 1983 to
19 percent in 1987.  The loan concentration in Greater Accra Region (68
percent) leaves the other areas with limited resources, even though they
have a significant growth potential.  The Government can indirectly support
credit availability by strengthening technology dissemination through
extension services which should lead to higher productivity; improve
marketing infrastructure and reduce marketing margins. These measures
would improve the return on rural investments and thereby encourage banks
to lend more.
Portfolio Quality and Loan Collections
2.25       The rapid economic decline of the late 70s and early 80s
characterized by double digit inflation, low administered producer prices
and an overvalued exchange rate, and a deteriorating physical
infrastructure led to a sharp decline of domestic marketed surplus. The
drought and bush fires in 1983 contributed to further decline in
agricultural production. As a consequence of the poor economic performance
during the late 70s and early 808, loan arrears are still widespread and
high (as much as 70 percent for some Us). Huge non-performing loans and
rising overdues are a reflection of the poor quality of many banks' loan
portfolios. Although ageing of arrears is not systematically done,
estimates show that the RBs, which had averaged a collection rate of up to
95 percent through 1982, experienced a sharp decline in the average to
about 30 percent as of June 1986, because of rapid expansion and the
inability to deal with the arrears created during the drought year of 1983
and the low price year of 1984 (following a bumper harvest). The ADB is
facing similar problems caused mainly by overdues, debt service burden on
loans designated in foreign exchange and inefficient management. The
Cooperative Bank's performance has also been poor, with a 25 percent loan
collection rate as of June 30, 1987. Administrative arrangements for loan



- 12 -
recovery of and follow-up of overdue and non-performing loans are in many
cases inadequate. Legal procedures for recovery are very slow, usually
lasting several years. Lack of systematic procedures, transport facilities
and poor management information systems contribute to the generally
unsatisfactory performance. Banks clearly require improvements in their
asset-liability mail&gement, including systematic arrears ageing and bad
debt provisions.
Accessibility
2.26      Ghana's agriculture is dominated by smallholders.  In 1986 the
MOA reported a total of 1,432,000 operators. It was estimated in the 1986
survey that about 40 percent of the small farmers received institutional
credit, up from 7 percent in 1975. At the peak, about 60,000 small-scale
farmers and fishermen received group credits from the ADB, and about
285,000 through the Commerbank Farmers Associations organized by the Ghana
Commercial Bank. Other banks have also adopted group lending schemes.
Initial response to group lending was positive. Repayments were high, thus
encouraging banks to expand rural credit, but as the program expanded,
repayment performance declined. The main reasons for the decline were:
(a) rapid expansion that led to hastily formed groups with little group
cohesiveness; and (b) banks tend to rely on rejecting future applications
rather than enforcing loan collection. The results have led banks to
reduce group lending drastically. The link between lenders and borrowers
needs to be strengthened through increases in field staff who can appraise
and follow-up on loans and in the process build up a volume of viable
lending.
Transaction and Intermediation Costs
2.27      Transactions costs are highs  these include depositors' costs of
operating accounts given the long distances they have to travel,
intermediaries costs of servicing accounts and of making, supervising and
collecting loans, and borrowers' costs of applying for credit, obtaining
disbursement and providing security and information to lenders. Clients
face long queues when they make deposits or withdrawals, and processing of
transactions require time once a client reaches the counter. Inter-
mediaries also face relatively high costs because transactions are
conducted largely in cash. To meet customers' demands, large amounts of
cash have to be kept on hand. This cash earns no interest, demands
numerous counts to verify amounts, requires safekeeping, and has to be
shipped to and from depositories. Loan supervision and collection impose
additional costs. Where loans are not repaid on time, lenders'
transactions costs in attempting to obtain recovery mount steeply. A
reduction in the level of transactions costs is therefore an important step
in increasing financial intermediation efficiency. Several measures have
already been introduced by BOG to reduce some of the transactions costs
including issuance cf large denomination notes; replacement of small notes
with coins; improvements in the availability and distribution of cash in
BOG depositories (to avoid repeated visits by Rural Bank clients who want
to withdraw funds). These measures would be complemented by the
improvements BOG proposes to introduce, as part of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Program (para 2.44), in the clearing system which vould increase



-13-
the use of non-cash financial instruments such as checks, drafts, inter-
bank transfers, etc. (Annex 2-4)
Rural Banks (RMs)
2.28      RBs are unit banks owned by and located in rural communities.
The first RB was commissioned early 1976. RBs are set up as limited
liability companies. The BOG holds preference shares equivalent to one
third of the initial share capital. As of June 30, 1988, there were 120
RBs. At least 100 of them are located in the southern part of the country,
mainly in the cocoa regions (See Map 21206).  RBs were promoted by BOG to
tap a market not catered for by national level banks, and local ownership
and location is a major source of their appeal and support. As of June 30,
1988, there were an additional 38 RBs approved but not yet operational, a
further 9 had conditional approval, and some 229 applications were yet to
be appraised. (Annex 2-5). There is substantial pressure from local
communities to open more RBs. As of June 30, 1988, there were 579,231
accounts, a growth of 25 percent over the previous year which in turn had
had a 23 percent growth over the preceding year. Total deposit liabilities
were 02,321 million of which 73 percent were savings accounts and 27
percent were current accounts. (Annex 2-6). They serve mainly small
borrowers and depositors: as of June 30, 1988, the average size of loan
was 020,000 for agriculture, 025,000 for processing, 050,000 for trade and
commerce and 0140,000 for transport. The average deposit was 04,000 per
savings account and ¢5,000 per current account. Most of their loans are
short-term (up to 12 months), conforming mainly to the short-term maturity
of their liabilities. RUs are subject to sectoral allocation quotas (like
the national level banks until September 1987)s they are required to lend
about 45 percent of their total loans and advances to agriculture, 30
percent to cottage industries and 25 percent to other activities.
2.29      The RBs have been successful in attracting savings (6.8 percent
of total banking system) and increasing the number of account holders, but
they face the same problems as the rest of the banking systems  Us have a
large proportion of non-performing loans, which may be as high as 50
percent of the total loan portfolio for some RBs. Studies done on a sample
of 20 RBs show that as many as 70 percent of the Us have 50 percent of
their loans overdue for three years or more. Most of the loans are granted
as overdrafts hence ageing of arrears is not meaningful in every case. The
records relating to loan transactions are incomplete in many cases, and
little follow up is done. Customer services are poor, for instance,
customers are not furnished with statements of account or sent
certifications of account balances for confirmation. Information useful
for analyzing the operations of the RB is not collected and hence not
available to management. All RBs require a partial or complete
reconstruction and verification of their accounts to determine their
financial status. A financial and organizational restructuring is
therefore urgently required (para 3.05).
2.30      The BOG as promoter of RBs provides advice, training and some
operational control (e.g. approval of loans above 0400,000); as regulator
BOG is responsible for statutory inspection and banking examination. BOG
staff are expected to serve on RB Boards to represent BOG as a shareholder.



- 14 -
In practice, however, BOG is represented on only 50 of the 120 RB Boards.
This dual role of promoter and regulator has in practice compromised BOG's
impartiality in deciding on corrective actions against RB management. BOG
should relinquish its promotional and management roles to the Association
of Rural Banks. BOG's main role should be regulatory, i.e., banking
examination and control (para 3.12).
Credit Unions (CUs)
2.31      CU development began in Ghana in 1955 and now there are
approximately 300 CUs in Ghana, mostly in small towns and rural areas. CUs
are self-supporting local institutions usually organized around a common
bond that is either specific or implied. Urban CUs are primarily organized
around work places or other social bonds.   Those in rural areas are most
heavily concentrated in the northern part of the country where there are
relatively few Commercial Banks or Rural Banks.   Rural CUs are usually
based around religious organizations. CUs are registered as cooperative
societies under the Cooperatives Act, and regulated by the Department of
Cooperatives. However, they have an identity separate from other coopera-
tives. Their apex organization is the Ghana Cooperative Credit Unions
Association (CUA). The average membership per society is 390, with a range
of 93 (Eastern Region) to 1943 (Upper West). Average savings per member in
1987 was 05,620 with a range of 02,325-020,500. The average loan is ¢3,800
per member. CUs are generally conservative in their loan operations: the
loan to savings ratio varies between 47 percent and 88 percent. The
transactions costs of CUs are generally low because they use volunteer
staff and have no bureaucratic procedures. This organizational simplicity
has led to problems: records are not usually kept up to date, and very
little marketing and promotion is done resulting in sluggish growth in
relation to RBs. Aggregate CU statistics as of June 30, 1988 for 157 CUs
indicate a membership of 61,500, with savings deposit balances amounting to
0345 million and total loans outstanding of 0234 million. CUA has the
responsibility for member education, training, auditing and operation of a
central loan fund. CUA's main challenge in CU development is training and
financial systems development. Many of the volunteers who serve on CU
boards and committees are prominent local leaders and professionals such as
teachers and civil servants.   However, few are specialized in accounting
and finance, which makes training important. CUs are an important quasi-
formal link in rural finance. By placing their deposits with the formal
banking system, they promote formal financial intermediation. CUs are
important financial intermediaries for small depositors and borrowers and
they are an important link to the informal sector. It is proposed that the
Department of Cooperatives, through CUA, would assess the extent of
financial and organizational strengthening required, and prepare
appropriate action plans (para 3.09).
Banking Supervision
2,32      BOG has statutory responsibility for the supervision and inspec-
tion of all banks.  However, the frequency and quality of the  inspection
and reporting have been inadequate.  Banking supervision in general is
being strengthened under a Financial Sector Adjustment Program, which
includes the appointment, in BOG, of two supervision specialists as



- 15 -
technical advisors who would also undertake training of staff. Currently
BOG's supervision oi RBU is unsystematic and irregular, making it difficult
to detect cases of gross imprudence in banking practices. Additional steps
are required to strengthen BOG's ability to carry out the supervision of
the large number of RBs (para 3.12).
Informal Financial Sector
2.33      The importance of informal finance is widely recognized in
Ghana.   The government wants to improve the efficiency of informal
intermediation, especially in rural areas. This desire is based on the
realization that Lhe formal financial system does not have the capacity to
serve small borrowers. Hence, the people's recourse is largely to informal
financial arrangements. The variety of these arrangements provides a range
of options to participants, who may belong to several groups or participate
in several arrangements simultaneously.   Sophisticated use of these
services is probably greatest among market women and possibly transporters.
Much as a clear understanding of these institutions may be useful, their
informal nature and fear of government interference may render them hostile
to formal inquiry. In addition, it is unclear how direct government
intervention could improve informal financing operations, which appear
vibrant and robust in comparison with government owned banks. A feasible
option may be to increase the efficiency of UBs and CUs and thereby
increase the integration of the formal and informal financial sectors. A
baseline survey of the informal financial sector would be done (para 3.14).
(Annex 2-7)
3. Rural Credit Demand
Assessing Demand for Credit
2.34      The total volume of institutional lending to the agricultural
sector, including forestry, in current prices amounted to approximately
US$51.0 million in 1987 and about US$96.0 million in 1988. The potential
for incremental lending exists in the agricultural sector, although no
accurate estimates are available. The discussion below reviews the
potential for growth for select activities and provides a rough estimate of
credit needs (para 3.04).
2.35      Cereal Production.  Maize and rice are important food crops for
the majority of Ghanaians. Maize is grown in all the regions of the
country but more than 50 percent is grown in Brong-Ahafo, Ashanti, and
Northern Regions. Maize is an important food in the Ghanaian diet,
supplying about 20 percent of total caloric intake (cassava being the
primary source at about 30 percent). Annual production has increased by 25
percent to about 500,000 tons in 1988. Production increases have been
mainly through area expansion. Domestic demand is estimated to be growing
a little faster than population growth because of demand for animal feed
(poultry, piggery). Consequently, the Government has imported maize in
most years since 1974. Increased supply is required not only to provide
for human conaumption and animal feed, but also for extractive industries
like sugar syrup, corn oil, starch, etc. Productivity is low; MOA
estimates show that fertilizer is used only on about 20 percent of the land



- 16 -
cultivated under maize. Yields could rise dramatically if, given good
rains, more fertilizer were used alongside improved seed and good crop
husbandry. MCA is optimistic that the uptake of fertilizer-seed technology
will be rapid, following the successful pilot program of Global 2000 which
showed tenfold increases on farmer-managed plots under the pilot as
compared to their traditional techniques. Crop models show that a maize
farmer requires about 0192,000 to implement the improved fertilizer-seed
technology including use of a bullock plough, more labor, pest control,
etc. The models show a return per man-day equivalent to twice the rural
wage rate if we assume a price of 03,500 per 100 kg bag of maize
(equivalent to 73 percent of the price offered by GFDC). HOA's objective
is to increase the adoption of the technology to cover about half the area
under cultivation over the next five years. This would entail upgrading
production systems on about 25,000 ha. Assuming that only 25 percent of
the area is upgraded, on the basis of the crop models, that would require
an incremental investment of 012 billion (or US$48 million equivalent) in
constant 1988 prices.
2.36      Rice.  Ghana produces about 80,000 tons of rice while it
consumes about twice the domestic production. About 82,000 ha were
cultivated in 1987 of which 4,000 ha were irrigated. About 80 percent of
the rice is grown in Northern Ghana under mechanized, rainfed conditions,
with yields below one ton/ha.  Improved varieties (IET 996, IR 3273, DS 3)
have been introduced for smallholders in the southwest in valley bottoms.
Current yields are about 2.5 tons/ha, but these results are preliminary.
Further yield increases of about 3.5 tons/ha are possible with improved
husbandry (bunding and drainage control). A modest estimate of valley
bottom rice cultivation potential is 25,000 ha. If it is assumed that only
10,000 ha would be developed in 5 years, based on the crop models, it would
cost about 046,000/ha using labor-intensive techniques or an aggregate cost
046.0 million (US$1.8 million equivalent). Farmers would also need credit
for the maintenance of current mechanized rice production operations
especially in spares and working capital, which would mean an additional
US$2.0 million over a five-year period. Total incremental requirements for
rice production, in constant 1988 prices, would thus be about 0950 million
(US$3.8 million).
2.37      Cocoa and Coffee.  The average yield on cocoa and coffee farms
is about half that of the best farmers. The main cause is bad husbandry:
irregular weeding, low dosage application of fertilizers, inadequate use of
pesticides and inappropriate implements. Although cocoa and coffee farmers
are relatively better off than other farmers, they have demonstrated an
inability to spread the lump sum payments they receive throughout the crop
season.  The annual cash outlay per season is about 073,000/ha and if we
assume the farmers would finance half of it, there would still be a large
gap (close to US$100 million). Farmers generally try to cope with the
shortfall through sharecropping arrangements, or through neglect (and loss
in production).
2.38      Poultrv Development.  Strong rural and urban markets exist for
broilers and eggs. Credit facilities would help finance start-up costs and
also provide working capital requirements for ongoing enterprises. On the
basis of pending applications in four national level banks, there are about



- 17 -
fifty applications for new broiler and layer units and for working capital
for existing ones. The total loan requests amount to about ¢2.5 billion
(US$10 million). Banks have not been able to grant credits because of the
credit ceilings.
2.39      Fisheries.  Inshore fishing is presently stagnant because of the
scarcity of spare parts to service marine engines and other equipment.
Apart from these essential support services, funding is required for the
outfitting of additional hulls and canoes and installation of on-board cold
storage. The merits of a further expansion of the deep water fishing fleet
should await the results of the ongoing fisheries sector review. The
development of fish ponds managed by cooperatives or other groups would be
feasible if technical support services and credit for on-farm investment,
equipment and feed were available. Inland markets for smoked fish have
remained robust. A recent joint UNIDOIFAO review mission estimated
financing needs for short-term rehabilitation of the fisheries sector at ¢
2.5 billion (US$10 million).
2.40      Other Rural Operations.  Stockists of agricultural inputs (seed,
tools, chemicals etc) especially in areas where the privatization of input
supplies is under way need to be developed. Other activities include rural
transport: pick-ups, ox-carts, lorries, bicycles; and marketing (financing
of trading activities by market women, for instance); horticultural crops
(pineapple, vegetables) and yams. The commercial banks expect a surge in
the growth of loan demand from stockists if privatization is sustained.
For fertilizer alone, an increase of 20 percent per year by volume from the
current level of about 35,000 tons is expected, until import levels reach
about 100,000 tons when demand for fertilizer is expected to level off.
That would add about ¢1,400 million, equivalent to US$5.8 million annually
(about US$18 million in the next three years).
2.41      These estimates indicate an annual incremental financing
requirement of about US$136.0 million. These estimates do not include
small scale agro-processing whose volume of activity is not yet determined.
These figures may not correspond to potential credit flows to the rural
sector because of problems of access by farmers to credit, credit ceilings,
distribution of banking services or other constraints. Such a figure is
only useful as an order of magnitude, but it indicates that financing needs
are large.
D. Bank Groun Assistance
1.  Previous Bank Grou  Involvement in the A ricultural Sector
2.42      The World Bank Group commitments to agriculture over the twenty
year period 1968-88 amount to US$187.5 million for projects covering tree
crops (cocoa and oil palm), fisheries, livestock, area development and
institution building. The main lessons learnt so far are: (i) the need to
ensure positive price incentives to producers; (ii) the high risk to
successful project implementation in view of MOA's limited institutional
capacity, as well as that of other relevant institutions to undertake
sector planning and program monitoring; (iii) the need for complementary
improvements especially with respect to (a) trade and exchange rate policy



- 18 -
(to assure adequate imports of essential consumer goods and agricultural
inputs); (b) the need for an efficient financial sector capable of
mobilizing adequate resources and allocating them efficiently to the
productive sectorst and (c) the capacity of rural infrastructure to support
further growth. In its current operations, IDA's emphasis is on
(a) continuing to create a macro policy and institutional environment
supportive of production of goods and services in which Ghana has a
comparative advantage; (b) strengthening the institutional capacity for
sector planning and program monitoring in agriculture through the ASRP (and
through other credits for other subsectors); (c) strengthening the macro
environment of the financial sector through policy and institutional
reforms with three major objectives (i) increasing resource mobilization
through measures aimed at improving public confidence in banks,
liberalizing interest rates, removing sectoral ceilings; and developing
money and capital markets, (ii) enhancing the soundness of banking
institutions by strengthening prudential supervision; strengthening the
Bankers Institute and the accounting and auditing professions; and support
to the financial restructuring of the corporate sector, and (iii) financial
restructuring of the distressed banks; and (d) Improving transport
infrastructure including ports, highways and feeder roads.
2. Bank Grout Role in the Agricultural Sector
2.43      The main objectives of IDA support to the agricultural sector
are to help the GOG to develop an overall medium and long-term strategy
including sectoral programs that are consistent with and reinforce the
macroeconomic environment through such credits as (i) the Cocoa
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1854-GH) which seeks to improve the
operational efficiency of the COCOBOD, improve cocoa extension and research
services, privatize cocoa input supplies, introduce an expanded disease
control program and strengthen the cocoa sector planning and monitoring
program; (ii) the ASRP which is implementing a program for strengthening
agricultural research and extension and improving the reliability of input
supplies through a combination of increased cost recovery of veterinary
supplies and irrigation services and privatization of the distribution of
all other inputs. Lack of credit continues to be a bottleneck,
particularly at a time when producers face higher input prices from a
combination of subsidy reduction and exchange rate adjustments. The
banking system has been unable to mobilize required resources and is
characterized by inefficient credit delivery mechanisms.
2.44      The Rural Finance Project is in line with, and reinforces IDA's
lending strategy in the financial sector for Ghana, which seeks, through
the FSAC, to improve the efficiency of financial intermediation through the
deregulation of interest rates, removal of lending quotas, strengthening of
the regulatory framework and enhancing the BOG's bank examination capacity.
These macro-financial reforms and institutional strengthening are being
complemented by two sector specific interventions. The Small and Medium
Enterprises Project will provide additional medium-term resources through
the banking system to new and exidting private entrepreneurs, in order to
increase the supply response from small and medium enterprises. The Rural
Finance Project seeks to provide additional medium term resources and
extend the macro reforms to the rural financial sector through the



- 19 -
restructuring of Rural Banks, the strengthening of Credit Unions, the
development of a rural credit appraisal capacity, and the strengthening of
BOG's capacity for RB examination. These reforms should lead to an
efficient and competitive rural financial sector that should help to
mobilize additional resources, increase rural credit and provide a basis
fon a robust rural supply response.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Rationale and Obieitives
3.01      Proiect Rationale.  To sustain the growth momentum created by
the ongoing structural adjustment program, it is essential to implement
sectoral programs that increase supply response. The agricultural sector
contributes half of GDP, hence, growth in agriculture has a significant
impact on the aggregate performance of the economy. Ghanaian agriculture
is predominantly smallholder: over 80 percent of all agricultural
production comes from small producers with landholdings of less than 2.5 ha
(6 acres). Rural credit is needed to increase smallholder access to the
use of productivity enhancing inputs such as fertilizer, seed, chemicals,
etc., and on-farm investments critical for medium and long-term growth.
Credit would also enhance rural business development, and create rural
employment opportunities. There are major impediments to increasing the
flow of credit to rural areas and to agriculture in particulars banks are
reluctant to provide loans to smallholders because of the high transactions
costs involved and have tended to grant only short term credit to
agriculture (seasonal); input supplies are erratic because foreign exchange
availability is still scarce, even though it has greatly improved; and the
banking system is beset with several institutional, financial and banking
weaknesses. The proposed project would be consistent with IDA's lending
strategy in agriculture which has emphasized strengthening farm support
services including extension, agricultural research and fertilizer
distribution; as well as with the IDA lending strategy in the financial
sector which has emphasized restructuring of financial institutions to
enable them to mobilize increased domestic resources and provide increased
credit to productive resources. The project would seek to complete the
overall financial restructuring, by picking up the remaining institutions,
comprising the privately owned Rural Banks and Credit Unions, and thus
enable them to mobilize more deposits and increase the flow of credit to
the largest and most important sectc of the economy.
3.02      Proiect Obiectives.  The main objectives of the project are to
(a) expand productive capacity and employment in the rural sector by
providing financing for profitable projects in agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, artisanal agro-processing and input supplies through a multi-
agency lending approach; (b) implement a financial restructuring program
for RBs and strengthen organization and financial management by CUs to
enable them to become more efficient in deposit mobilization and in the
delivery of short and medium term credit, especially to smallholders; (c)
strengthen the Association of Rural Banks and the Credit Union Association,
two important local NGOs that are promoting financial intermediation in



- 20 -
informal sectors; (d) build an enhanced capacity for the appraisal of rural
credits; (e) strengthen the RB Examination Unit in BOG; and (f) build a
local capacity for research in rural finance policy.
B. Proiect Description
3.03      To achieve the above objectives, the project would comprise two
componentss (i) a line of credit; and (ii) institution building comprising
technical assistance for the restructuring of about 80 out of the total of
120 Rural Banks in operation in 1988; the strengthening of the ARB and CUA
and rationalizing the roles of the Rural Banking Department in BOG and ARB;
improving rural credit appraisal capacity of ^3s and participating
commercial banks; strengthening BOG capacity for RB Examination; and
strengthening rural cooperatives. To implement the project and to form a
nucleus of a permanent institutional arrangement for implementing rural
finance programs, a Rural Finance Department would be established in BOG.
A summary of proposed actions is presented in the matrix in Annex 3-1, and
BOG would be expected to implement the actions outlined in the matrix with
diligence (para 4.07).
Detailed Features
1. Credit Component (USS28.0 million)
3.04      The line of credit component would amount to ¢7.0 billion
(US$28.0 million) over a three year period. The funds would be lent
through eligible participating banks (para 4.03) for the financing of all
viable rural enterprises excluding real estate, industry, and speculative
trade. The nature of demand for rural credit was discussed in paras 2.34-
2.41. The provision for credit in this project is a small proportion of
the estimated demand. Total credit to the agricultural sector in 1988 was
about US$96.0 million, an increase of over 80 percent from the previous
year in nominal terms. The proposed credit would add about US$6.5 million
per year over the next three years (about 7 percent increase) from external
sources. Out of the annual estimated incremental financing requirements of
US$136.0 million (equivalent to an additional US$400 million over a three
year period), the credit component of US$28.0 million provided in this
project, covering a three year period, represents 15 percent of a single
year's financing requirements (or 5 percent of the requirements over a
three year period). No targeting of subloans will be imposed on banks. A
summary of financial returns on selected activities is in Annex 3-2.
(Details are shown in Working Paper No. 1.)
2. Institution-Building (US$9.0 million)
(i) Restructuring of Rural Banks (US$1.9 million)
3.05      The main objectives of RB restructuring are to strengthen
financial management, and improve loan portfolio quality. The first step
would consist of special comprehensive audits of each RB. Each institution
would have the choice of selecting a firm of auditors from a list of
professional audit firms acceptable to IDA. Audit fees would be covered by



- 21 -
grants made available under the Project. Based on special audit
recommendations, the restructuring program for each RB would be prepared.
The first phase would require upgrading of accounting and bookkeeping
systems, intensive campaigns to collect arrears and to regularize loan
accounts by renegotiation and rescheduling, and efforts to obtain
additional capital. RBs would be free to engage their own auditors as
advisors during this period, paid for by grants under the Project. Those
RBs that have no prospects for recovery would be merged with stronger
units, sold to new owners willing to inject additional capital, or closed.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that to allow RBs to raise
additional capital from those who can afford even though voting rights may
be restricted, BOG woulds (a) eliminate the ¢25,000 and 0125,000 ceilings
on share holdings in RBs by individuals and companies, respectively (para
6.01 (i)(a)); (b) limit the shareholding in a particular RD by individuals
and companies to not more than 5 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of
the share capital (para 6.01 (i) (b)); (c) RBs would assign all their non-
performing loans to special collection accounts to be set up in each RB or
to special collection agencies. BOG would require that each RB establish
collection targets and also make a provision for bad debt commensurate with
the proportion of non-performing loans and arrears (para 6.01 (i)(c)); and
(d) BOG would award contracts, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
IDA, to consulting firms to undertake diagnostic studies of RBs selected
for review in the subsequent year by September 30 of each preceding year
(para 6.01 (i)(d)). The completion of restructuring plans for the 20 UBs
already studied would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02 (vi)(c)).
3.06      BOG would facilitate the restructuring program by acting as
liquidator where required and paying off all depositors' claims that cannot
be met by off-sets against loans outstanding to individual depositors
having such claims, and from liquidation proceeds.   For credit
effectiveness GOG would provide a deposit guarantee on a one-time only
basis to facilitate restructuring (para 6.02 (i)). Shareholders would
receive no liquidating dividend if BOG payments to depositors were
required. This is not expected to have a major impact on the monetary
program because RBs are generally small (assets of about US$120,000 on
average) and only a few of them (probably no more than 10 percent of the
RBs i.e. 10-12 RBs) may have to be closed down. To enable RBs to improve
loan portfolio quality, RBs would also be free to determine the activities
they lend for. Assurances were obtained from BOG that the sectoral quotas
on lending by RBs would be abolished (para 6.01 (ii)) while retaining
initially a 20 percent minimum for agriculture to be reviewed during the
mid-term review. Once this exercise has been completed, BOG would require
that each RB be audited by independent auditors annually, within three
months of the close of the fiscal year. BOG would also require that a copy
of the audited annual accounts including balance sheet, income and expense
statement, and auditor's report be sent to each shareholder, and continue
to ensure that a copy be kept visibly available for inspection by members
of the public at each branch or agency where the R conducts business. In
addition, each RB would be subject to surprise inspection by BOG examiners.
3.07      The total outstanding loans and advances of the RB system in
1988 were approximately US$4.0 million. On the basis of the analysis of
the sample of Rural Banks studied during project preparation, approximately



- 22 -
25-30 percent of the loans are non-performing and should be treated as bad
debts (although the banks would still continue to try and collect them).
The remaining US$3.0 million could be considered recoverable debt and RBs
would mount special efforts for its collection in order to minimize arrears
as part of the restructuring effort. The GOG would supplement the RB
special loan collection efforts with a Recapitalization Fund to be created
in BOG. The Fund would be approximately equal to the volume of non-
performing loans estimated at US$1.0 million. The initial deposit would be
US$300,000 equivalent, and would be replenished in accordance with the pace
of the restructuring. Support from the Recapitalization Fund to a Rural
Bank would be contingent upon (i) agreement between BOG and the RB that the
program for reducing arrears is adequate given the profile of such loans
and borrowers; and (ii) the RB would provide a program acceptable to BOG of
mobilizing additional resources, from new and existing shareholders,
amounting to at least 10 percent of the recapitalization requirements. The
loans from this fund to the RBs would be of a long term nature (quasi-
equity) at an annual interest rate of 10 percent for a period of up to 10
years including up to 3 years grace period. The establishment of the
Recapitalization Fund would be a condition of effectiveness (para 6.02
(ii)). The long-term loans would help minimize public sector ownership of
UBs while providing new capital. Project funds would be used for the
services of: a Rural Banks Restructuring Advisor (18 man months); audit
firms that will undertake the diagnostic studies of the 100 RBs not covered
in the initial sample; and finally, firms that will design the accounting
and financial improvement programs required for all RBs, a vehicle, and a
personal computer. (Annex 3-3)
(ii) Strengthening the Association of Rural Banks (US$1.5 million)
3.08      The Association of Rural Banks (ARB) would be strengthened to
provide essential services to its member RBs in the key areas of training
of staff, board members, and shareholders; financial management and record
keeping; and in loan appraisal. The ARB is an NGO that has the potential
for taking charge of member banks' staff training, advisory services and
promotional activities. This would allow the BOG to devote its scarce
resources to the statutory function of RB Examination. Assurances were
obtained from GOG that it would cause the ARB to submit its subsequent
annual work programs to IDA for review and agreement by September 30, 1989,
and September 30, 1990 (para 6.01 (iii)(a)). The support to ARB would
consist of technical assistance for a training specialist and financial
management specialist (about 36 man-months each); some funds for local
training (about 29 man-years), visual aids and some vehicles and equipment.
(Annex 3-4)
(iii) Strengthening of CUA (US$2.3 million)
3.09      CUs are valuable institutions for promoting savings mobilization
and investment in rural areas and a sound infrastructure exists on which to
expand rural credit. To strengthen the CU system, the structure and
operations of the Central Loan Fund operated by CUA would be reviewed, as
also the operational systems, policies and procedures of individual Credit
Unions in selected areas such as accounting, auditing, loan policies and
procedures, and appraisal methods and criteria. Project support would



- 23 -
comprise technical assistance; two studies, one, a review of the
cooperatives and credit union decrees, and the other a baseline survey of
the status of CUs and Susu groups. Terms of reference for the studies
(except the Susu groups) have been prepared and are presented in Working
Paper No. 3. Assurances were obtained from the Government at negotiations
that the agreed changes in decrees would be implemented by December 31,
1990 (para 6.01 (iv)). The project provides for training of the staff of
CUA and of its committee members and for Susu groups. The project would
also provide a total of ¢37,500 million (US$150,000) into the CUA Central
Loan Fund to help expand its lending operations to CUs. Some equipment,
vehicles and other logistical and administrative support requirements would
be funded.   (Annex 3-5)
(iv) Strengthening Loan Aooraisal Capability (USS.8 million)
3.10      Rural Banks.  None of the RBs studied seems to have adequate
capability for assessing creditworthiness or to adequately appraise
investment proposals. This is the major cause for the large non-performing
portfolios of all RBs. Some do not have a Project Officer. Even in RBs
which have such an officer, neither he nor the manager seems to possess the
necessary training or experience required to review investment loan
applications, assess technical feasibility, financial viability, and loan
repayment prospects. RB staff require both theoretical and practical
training (para 3.08). It is not necessary to have a project officer in
each UB, although all RBs should have someone who is responsible for
project analysis. In many RBs, the RB Hanager himself would be the project
officer. In addition to the training specialists to be provided to the
ARU, the project would include funds for RBs participating in the project
to hire local consulting firms to provide loan appraisal services for
medium and long term loans (para 4.03). RBs would select from a shortlist
of consulting firms including NGOs, with experience in loan appraisal, to
be kept by BOG in Accra and in three of BOG's regional offices in Tamale,
Kumasi and Takoradi. The shortlisting of firms would be done by RPD in
collaboration with ARB. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BOG
(through RFD) would shortlist firms in collaboration with ARB and in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA by September 30, 1989 (para
6.01 (iii)(b). A total of 96 manmonths of professional services, and 100
motorbikes for participating RBs would be provided by the project.
3.11      National Level Banks:  To provide an incentive for commercial
banks to follow-up smllholder loans, build up lending volumes and improve
recovery, the project would finance, for each participating bank,
motorcycles and staff costs of the promotional and development activities
of agricultural officers for two years. After two years the officer would
have built up an adequate volume of loans to pay his salary and
administrative expenses and to be absorbed by the bank. These arrangements
would enable the agricultural credit officers to focus on loan appraisal,
follow-up and collection. They would also liaise with extension staff.
Global 2000 has provided services to national banks operating in the
northern regions, to include the selection of farmers, provision of
extension services, and follow-up. The loan recovery rates have been 1001.
This has stimulated interest in banks and if the program were widely
adopted by coumercial banks, it should help them increase loan collections



- 24 -
and earnings, and to expand rural services. A total of 60 officers would
be recruited over the project period. The selection of the branches and
staff would be done by participating banks in consultation with RFD. No
single bank would get more than half the number of credit officers provided
for in the project.
(v) Rural Banks Examination (USS1.0 million)
3.12      BOG has hitherto relied on its general pool of inspectors to
carry out Rural Bank examinations. Presently there are 10 officers (4 in
Accra and 6 in Kumasi) available to carry out all work related to RBs. The
shortage of examiners has been a serious constraint in (a) carrying out
BOG's prudential inspection function satisfactorily, (b) reviewing the many
periodical returns sent by RBs, annual audit reports, etc., and (c) taking
timely follow-up action and providing feedback on such reports. The
Examination Department expects to carry out prudential inspections of RBs
at an average of one visit per RB annually. Hitherto the officers had been
working in teams of 4, and at the present rate a team cannot be expected to
inspect more than an average of 20 RUs in a year. On this basis at least 6
teams of 4 inspectors (24 officers) would be required to inspect the 120
RBs. Additional staff would be required for follow-up action, feedback,
interaction with external auditors and internal MIS functions. Staff
recruitment and intensive training of all inspectors are therefore
required. Such strengthening by recruitment, training, etc. is bound to be
gradual and spread over time. In the meantime, to carry out the RB
examination function in a meaningful manner, BOG should contract out
prudential inspection of Us to preselected professional auditors who would
be provided with specific terms of reference by the Bank Examination
Department. The fee for such assignments would be provided in the project,
while BOG builds up its capacity. BOG will build its capacity from
internal resources, through the transformation of the Rural Banking
Department (RUD) from a promotional/control focus to a regulatory one. RBD
has about 40 professional staff who have hitherto attempted to provide
management and operational support to RBs from their 4ccra base. The
effectiveness of their role is in doubt given the poor financial state of
RBs. BOG will, through internal training, equip RBD staff with bank
examination skills. The present guidelines for bank examination, which are
being redrafted under the Deloitte Haskins & Sells study, are too broad and
cover a lot of ground intended for the external auditors of national level
banks during their annual audits. The guidelines need re-orientation to
RBs, with the major focus on prudential aspects. The external auditors
should, however, be required to provide detailed attention in their annual
audit examination and reporting to specific aspects such as loan portfolio
review, adequacy of bad debts provision, appraisal and loan approval
procedures, portfolio management, loan recovery performance, internal
checks, budgetary and financial controls, etc. A specialist familiar with
the prudential examination of unit banks would be internationally recruited
for up to 30 months. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BOG
woulds (a) examine each RB at least once a year, using, if need be,
auditors of BOG choice to complement the Examination Department's efforts
(para 6.01 (v)(a)); and (b) recruit internationally by September 30, 1989,
a specialist familiar with the examination of unit banks to provide



- 25 -
internal training and adapt examination guidelines being developed to suit
RB requirements (para 6.01 (v)(b)).
3.13      It has been the practice for BOG Officers to be appointed to RB
boards as representatives of BOG as a shareholder. However, BOG has not
been successful in finding an adequate number of suitable officers as
appointees to serve on RB boards. At present only about 50 out of the 120
RB boards of directors have BOG representation. It is not uncommon for BOG
representatives on RB boards not to attend most of the directors' meetings
particularly at locations far out of Accra. These officers do not seem to
have the time for study of their respective RB's operations, follow-up its
progress and problems, review board papers or attend meetings. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations from BOG that officers already on RB boards
would be required to attend RB board meetings regularly and provide
feedback to BOG, and that for the remaining 70 RUs, BOG would nominate, by
December 31, 1989, its representatives on RU boards (para 6.01 (v)(c)).
(vi) Strengthening Rural Cooperatives (USS.40 million)
3.14      The efficiency and effectiveness of rural financial
intermediation would be considerably enhanced if the smallholder producers
were organized in groups that would also provide economies of scale in
input procurement, produce marketing and credit transactions. Although
many cooperatives exist in Ghana, the links to input and output marketing,
as well as to credit, are weak. A pilot program would be included for
strengthening rural cooperatives at the grassroot level in one district of
the Upper West Region. The focus of the pilot would be on working within
existing local community organizations to permit them to better organize
their marketing needs for inputs, services and outputs. This would also
improve the ability of producers to negotiate more effectively with
suppliers and purchasers through economies of scale. The pilot scheme
would test ways and means of making cooperatives to become financially
viable and effective intermediaries in the input distribution and produce
marketing chain. This may provide one option for the privatization of farm
input supplies that is proposed. Ghana has many NGOs active in the rural
sector.  One would be selected from those which have experience with
cooperatives to provide management, financial, and technical services. The
pilot program would be linked to the program of Farmers' Service Companies
(FASCOMs) to privatize the distribution of input supplies. The District
Cooperative Officer (DCO) would coordinate the pilot program and provide
cooperative extension services to the selected cooperatives. The design of
the pilot and the annual work program would be agreed with Upper Regions
FASCOM and the MOA in the Upper West Region. The DCO would also liaise
with other agencies including MOA, local administration and the NGO. The
project would finance a consultant to prepare the pilot program, the costs
of the NGO support under a suitable contract, a vehicle and equipment for
the district office of the Department of Cooperatives and an evaluation of
the pilot. (Annex 3-6)
(vi) Rural Finance Department (US$1.1 million)
3.15      A Rural Finance Department (RFD) would be established in the BOG
for purposes of implementing the Rural Finance Project. The RFD would



- 26 -
coordinate the onlending arrangements with participating banks, manage the
Rural Banks restructuring program, as well as other components of the
project as indicated below. The Head of RFD would be assisted by a Rural
Finance Adviser (para 4.07). The RFD would comprise a Rural Banking
section that would coordinate the restructuring of Rural Banks with the
assistance of a Rural Bank Restructuring Adviser to be appointed prior to
project effectiveness; a Rural Banks Examination section that would be
assisted by the Rural Bank Examination Adviser to be recruited by September
30, 1989; a Rural Finance Monitoring section that would be responsible for
the monitoring of all financial intermediation activities, including those
under this project. A project administration section would manage the
disbursements under this project. A Rural Finance Adviser to be recruited
prior to the effectiveness of this project would be responsible to the Head
of the RFD. The Head of RFD would be the project manager.
3.16      RFD would also focus on the management of rural finance policy
and articulate a strategy, by December 1990, for developing a strong rural
financial system. BOG would take the lead in developing a capacity for
policy analysis, and the monitoring and evaluation of programs in rural
finance. Functions related to rural finance from existing units would be
transferred to the new unit. The research capacity would be built up
gradually, as follows: by December 31, 1989, RID would prepare a
monitoring system of the rural finance operations of the banking sector to
be follewed by a seminar on Rural Finance with participation from banks,
academics, government ministries, private sector and leading specialists in
rural finance, to review what next needs to be done. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations (para 6.01 (vi)) that (a) by December 31, 1989,
RFD to have completed a staff development program comprising training,
visits for senior staff to other countries and technical assistance support
requirements (Annex 3-7), (b) by June 30, 1990, BOG to have signed a
contract on twinning arrangements with an external agency to provide start-
up support for policy research and strengthen mechanisms for program
monitoring; and (c) by December 31, 1989, to prepare a monitoring system of
the rural finance operations of the banking sector including operations
under this project. The Head of RFD would soon after appointment develop
operating policies and procedures for RFD assisted by short term
consultants as needed, funded from the PPF. Finalization of RFD's
statement of policies and procedures would be a condition of effectiveness
(para 6.02 (iii)). The Head of RFD would also initiate discussions with
banks to brief them on the eligibility criteria for participation in the
line of credit (para 4.02), as well as liaising with the ARB, CUA and the
Department of Cooperatives, to ensure that they understand their respective
roles in the project.
C. Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.17      Proiect Cost Estimates:  The total project cost is estimated at
US$38.0 million equivalent of which US$27.0 million or 71 percent is
foreign exchange. All costs are based on November 1988 prices, adjusted to
end-January 1989, using a factor based on 6 percent international inflation
and 10 percent local inflation. Contingencies have been provided for only
in respect of the institution building component amounting to US$0.77
million equivalent. A base exchange rate of ¢250 to US$1.00 was used for



- 27 -
cost estimates, and purchasing power parity exchange rates of 0260, 0269
and 0278 were used for the cost estimates for years lthrough 3,
respectively. A project cost summary is given in the table below and
detailed in Annex 3-9.
Estimated Project Cost
Local        Foreign       Total
-----------US$ million----------
Line of Credit                         8.0            20.0         28.0
Institution-Building                   2.8             6.2          9.0
Rural Finance Department                 .2             .8          1.0
Total                         11.0           27.0          38.0
_                _m
3.18      Proiect Financing Plan:  The financing plan would be as
summarized below:
Local       Foreisn      Total       X
---------- -US$ million--------------
Financins Plan
IDA                          1.4          18.6         20.0       53
Cofinanciers                  .5          8.4           8.9       23
Government                   1.1           -            1.1        3
Participating Banks          5.0           -            5.0       13
Subborrowers                 3.0           -            3.0        8
Total             11.0         27.0         38.0       100
IDA credit of US$20.0 million, equivalent to 53 percent of the total
project cost, would be on standard IDA terms for Ghana, with 40 years
maturity. The IDA contribution would finance 69 percent of the foreign
exchange cost. Cofinanciers are expected to provide 23 percent of the
total project cost, equivalent to US$8.9 million. This would comprise
US$5.0 million towards the line of credit for which OPEC Fund has expressed
interest, and US$3.9 million for institution building in which CIDA and GTZ
are interested. The Government would provide US$1.1 million, equivalent to
3 percent of total project costs. Government contribution would be towards
the establishment of a RB Recapitalization Fund (US$1.0 million equivalent)
and US$0.1 million towards RFD's recurrent costs. Participating banks and
borrowers would finance local costs amounting to US$5.0 million and US$3.0
million, respectively, as contributions to the line of credit.
3.19      The IDA contribution of US$20.0 million equivalent would be
distributed as follows:



- 28 -
Local       Foreign       Total
Components                    ----     US$ million----------
A.  Line of Credit                        -          15.0         15.0
B.  Institution-Building
1.  Restructuring Rural Banks        .3            .5           .8
2.  Association of Rural Banks       .3            .7          1.0
3.  Rural Credit Appraisal           .5            .3           .8
4.  Rural Banks Examination          .3            .7          1.0
5.  Rural Cooperatives               .1            .3           .4
C.  Rural Finance Department             .2             .8         1.0
Total                          1.4           18.6       20.00
CIDA (through the Canadian Cooperative Association) has expressed interest
in the Credit Union development program (US$2.3 million). An additional
US$1.6 million would still be required for other institution building
components. GTZ has also expressed interest especially with respect to
participating in the Rural Banks restructuring program as well as the
strengthening of the Association of Rural Banks. US$5.0 million for the
line of credit is being sought from OPEC Fund. It would be suggested to
cofinanciers to make the US$5.0 million financing of the line of credit, a
quick disbursing component that would be available depending on the
progress achieved on RB restructuring and the completion of a strengthening
plan for Credit Unions. If the cofinancing of the Line of Credit component
were not secured, the component would comprise only the IDA contribution.
D. Procurement
3.20      The procurement of goods and services under the project would be
in accordance with the procedures summarized below. Procurement from the
IDA credit is shown in parenthesis.
Cateitory                LCB          Other           Total
------------US$ million--------------
Line of Credit                           28.0 (15.0)    28.0 (15.0)
Special Funds                             1.2 ( -  )     1.2 (-  )
Technical Assistance                      4.4 ( 2.5)     4.4 ( 2.5)
Studies and Training                       .7 (  .4)       .7 t  .4)
Equipment and Vehicles   1.3(  .8)                        1.3 (  .8)
RFD Operating Costs                       1.4 (  .3)      1.4 (  .3)
Refinancing PPF                            .53(  .53)      .53( .53)
Unallocated                                .47(  .47)      .47( .47)
Total                1.3(  .8)     36.7 (19.2)    38.0 (20.0)



- 29 -
For goods and services financed under the IDA Credit, RFD would have
overall responsibility for ensuring that procurement procedures acceptable
to IDA are followed by participating banks. Under the line of credit,
participating banks would ensure that goods and services for individual
subloans are purchased at competitive prices, due account being given for
delivery time, proprietary items and post-delivery services. The maximum
size of a subloan would be US$200,000 equivalent. All bid packages above
US$75,000 equivalent for individual subloans, would be procured on the
basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers whose goods and
services are from countries of origin that are eligible for procurement
under the Bank's guidelines. Contracts for this category of goods will be
reviewed by participating banks and would amount to about US$5.0 million
equivalent. Bid packages valued at less than US$75,000 equivalent would be
procured through established commercial practices acceptable to IDA.
Participating banks would need to assure themselves that purchases are from
the most advantageous sources. Subloan appraisal reports would include a
list of goods and services to be financed out of the subloan, as well as
the methods of procurement. All participating banks would maintain records
of procurement for review by IDA during supervision. The total technical
assistance cost of the project is estimated at US$5.1 million comprising
professional services for: the restructuring of Rural Banks; strengthening
of ARB and CUA; rural credit appraisal; and Rural Bank Examination.
Consultants for the technical assistance program as well as for studies and
training financed from the proceeds of the credit would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. It is
expected that apart from three specialists who will be internationally
recruited (Rural Finance Adviser, RB Restructuring Adviser, RB Inspection
Adviser) and the twinning program for the rural finance policy research,
the rest of the technical assistance services, including those for studies
and training are of a nature and scope to allow the use of local
consultants and experts although no restriction will be imposed. All short
term contracts for consultancy, studies and training valued at less than
US$5,000 would be subject to ex-post review by IDA during supervision
missions. Such contracts are not expected to exceed US$50,000 in
aggregate. International firms would be eligible to bid for consultant
services, and Ghana has several international firms based in Accra.
Procurement for equipment and vehicles (estimated to be about US$800,000
equivalent) would be made according to local competitive procedures.
Operating costs will comprise RFD's vehicle operation and maintenance,
stationery and office supplies.
E. Disbursements
3.21      The IDA credit of US$20.0 million would be disbursed over four
years beginning the second semester of calendar 1989 (Annex 3-10). A
summary of disbursement by categories is shown below.



- 30 -
Disbursements by Categories
(US$ million)
IDA            S of Expenditure
Category                      Credit           to be Financed
1.   Line of Credit                 '5.0        802 of expenditure under
eligible subloans
2.   Technical Assistance,           2.9        1002 of total expenditure
Studies and Training
3.   Equipment and Vehicles           .8        1OOZ of foreign expenditure
and 901 of local expenditure
4.   RFD Operating Costs              .3        1002, 602, 302 of total
expenditure for project
years 1, 2 and 3
respectively
5.   Refinancing the PPF              .53
6.   Unallocated                      .47
20.00
3.22      Disbursements of the IDA Credit would be fully documented except
for expenditures of less than US$50,000 equivalent which will be disbursed
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). All expenditures of less than
US$50,000 under the IDA Credit would be financed from the Special Account.
Documents in support of SOEs will be retained by RFD and made available to
IDA for review during supervision missions. Documents to be submitted to
the RFD by banks in respect of each loan above US$10,000 equivalent, would
include: (a) loan appraisal showing the financial viability, financing
plan and an assessment of management capacity; (b) a specification of goods
and services to be procured with loan funds; and (c) terms and conditions
of the loan. For loans smaller than IJS$l0,000, banks would need to submit
to RFD only a listing of borrowers, loan amounts, financial viability (e.g.
gross margin) purpose and terms and conditions of the loan.  Evaluation
reports of all loans below US$5,000 would be retained by the banks for ex-
post review by RFD and periodically by IDA during supervision.  In the
course of the first year, all loans between US$50,000 and US$100,000 would
be subject to prior review by RFD.  Thereafter RFD would only undertake an
ex-post review. The first five loans above US$100,000 would be subject to
prior review by IDA. Thereafter this group of loans would be subject to
RIDs prior review for the subsequent 12 months following the end of the IDA
prior review. RFD would undertake only ex-post review of all categories of
loans starting after 18 months of project effectiveness. RFD would,
however, continuously monitor progress and provide training support. The
Bank of Ghana would have the responsibility for submitting withdrawal
applications except for the pilot program for strengthening cooperatives



- 31 -
for which the Department of Cooperatives would submit withdrawal
applications.
F. SPecial Account
3.23      A Special Account in US dollars would be opened by BOG in a
commercial bank. Upon effectiveness, IDA would make available the
authorized allocation of US$1.5 million representing estimated expenditures
for a four-month period. The Special Account would be operated by RFD
under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Should any disbursements
made from the Special Account be found ineligible for IDA financing, the
GOG would deposit or cause BOG to deposit the corresponding amount into the
account prior to the submission of further replenishment applications.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01      The Government would make the proceeds of the IDA credit (except
for the pilot on strengthening cooperatives) available to e'.igible
participating banks through the nheD in BOG. The functions and
responsibilities of BOG in this regard would be defined in a subsidiary
administration agreement between the GOG and BOG. The signing of the
subsidiary administration agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02 (v)). The
GOG would pass on the proceeds of the Credit to the BOG for: line of
credit (US$15.0 million); technical assistance (US$3.2 million); studies
and training (US$0.4 million); equipment and vehicles (US$0.75 million);
and other costs (US$0.25 million). A Project Agreement would be signed
between IDA and BOG. Credit proceeds amounting to US$0.4 million for the
pilot on strengthening cooperatives would be passed on to the Department of
Cooperatives as r grant.
4.02      The RFD will have the responsibility for the selection of banks
wishing to participate in the project, based on agreed eligibility criteria
(see para 4.03). Channeling funds through a large number of banks will
help reach the entire country and contribute to increased competition among
banks. The signing of participation agreements with at least two national
level banks that meet the eligibility criteria (para 6.02 (vi)(a)), and the
approval by BOG of restructuring plans for 20 RBs already studied in the
sample would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.02 (vi)(c)).
B. Eligibility Criteria for Particlpatins Banks
4.03      To reach the largest number of borrowers across the country, the
participation of as many banks as possible would be encouraged. The banks
likely to participate are the RBs; the three largest commercial banks:
Ghana Commercial Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, and Barclays Bank, as well
as the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB). The future of the Cooperative
Bank is still uncertain. The participation of ADB is important since it
has a large network of branches and its operational mandate is entirely in



- 32 -
agriculture. However, ADB is a candidate for restructuring under FSAC and
the commencement of its restructuring would be a condition of effectiveness
of this project (para 6.02 (vi)(b)). Other banks might also participate.
To qualify for participation, the requirements below would need to be met,
and assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. For national
level banks to participate in the line of credit, they would be required to
meet the following requirements:  (i) have up-to-date audited financial
statements (balance sheet, profit and loss account); (ii) if financial
restructuring is deemed necessary by BOG, such a bank shall have completed
a restructuring plan satisfactory to BOG; (iii) each participating bank
shall agree to contribute about 20 percent financing to each eligible
subloan; and (iv) must have a project officer in each participating branch
capable of undertaking a credit appraisal. Rural Banks should have: (i)
completed special financial and management audit studies according to terms
of reference acceptable to Bank of Ghana and IDA; (ii) commenced a
restructuring program, based on the special studies as indicated in (i) and
as approved by the BOG; (iii) completed the annual statutory audit as
stipulated; (iv) complied with BOG's primary and secondary reserve
requirements and capital adequacy requirements as specified from time to
time by the BOG; and (v) designate an officer who shall participate in a
project appraisal course to be organized by the ARB with the support of the
RFD; and (vi) finance out of its own resources about 20 percent of the
total financing of eligible sub-projects. Deposit mobilization is a major
objective of the proposed project. All participating banks would therefore
be expected to cofinance subloans amounting to 20 percent from their own
resources. This would indirectly oblige banks to step up deposit
mobilization.
C. Eligible Beneficiaries and SubDroiects
4.04      All private sector producers including individual groups or
other legal entities engaged in productive economic activities would be
eligible for financing under the project. Activities in real estate,
industry other than agro-industry, and speculative trade would be excluded.
Financing would be made available for the following types of goods: farm
inputs (seed, fertilizer, and agro-chemicals); farm implements (ox-ploughs,
ox-carts, tools, and motorized farm machinery); agro-processing; vehicles
for rural merchandize transport (bicycles, pick-ups); fishing equipment
(outboard motor engines and spares, nets, freezers, etc.); livestock
development (feed, poultry, hatcheries, farm structures). This list is not
meant to be exhaustive but rather indicative of the kinds of things that
would be financed.  To be eligible for financing, subprojects would have to
be technically and financially sound.  The subproject evaluation would
include an assessment of demand, and  availability and reliability of input
supplies.  For all annual (seasonal) subloans, a gross margin (value of
sales less operating expenses and depreciation) estimate equivalent to a
return of at least 20 percent would be required.  For medium and long term
loans in excess of US$25,000 equivalent the financial rate of return would
be calculated and only those with a return on equity, in real terms, of at
least 10 percent, would be eligible.  For subprojects less than US$25,000,
participating banks would be required to prepare a cashflow to showing the
borrower's ability to finance the minimum equity required in the enterprise
and to ascertain if adequate surpluses would be generated.  Financing from



- 33 -
the line of credit would not exceed 80 percent of the amount approved for a
subloan, the remaining 20 percent would be contributed by banks and
borrowers. Borrowers' contributions could include financing in kind such
as labor, other inputs already owned by the borrower or work in progress.
D. Onlendina Terms and Conditions
4.05      Interest Rates.  The Government will provide BOG with the Cedi
equivalent of the IDA Credit to be used for the line of credit on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. The BOG would onlend in Cedis to banks at
an interest rate equivalent to the weighted average cost on 180-day
deposits of commercial banks. At the rates prevailing in October 1988, the
reference interest rate tRIR) would be equivalent to 21 percent. The RIR
would be calculated twice yearly by BOG and would be monitored by RFD to
determine its appropriateness. Participating financial institutions would
determine their own on-lending rates to individual borrowers. For
onlending to Rural Banks from the Recapitalization Fund, an interest rate
of 10 percent would be charged. Lending from this fund would be contingent
upon an RB having demonstrated that it has exhausted possibilities of
raising additional equity from existing or new shareholders. The rate
would be kept under review by BOG. Agreement was obtained from BOG at
negotiations on the interest rate policy as stated above (para 6.01 (vii)).
4.06      Maturities.  Loans to national level banks would have maturities
of up to 10 years with grace periods of up to 3 years. Loans to RBs would
have maturities of up to 15 years with grace periods of up to 3 years.
Loan maturities are relatively long to induce banks to finance medium and
long term investments. Maturities to RBs are longer because they have high
transaction costs on account of the small loans and deposits they take.
Subloan maturities would be agreed upon with BOG.
E. Proiect Implementation
4.07      The project would be implemented by BOG over a three-year period
starting about July 1989 through June 1992. Key indicators for project
implementation are summarized in Annex 4-1. BOG's main role would be to
manage the restructuring program and line of credit as well as the o'cher
components of the project, including actions spelled out in Annex 3-1. To
enable BOG to continue the momentum created since the initiation of the
special audit studies of the sample of Rural Banks, the Head of RFD would
be appointed prior to Board presentation to guide the restructuring work
and plan project start-up. This position would require an experienced
commercial banker who would report directly to the Governor of the BOG.
The appointee should preferably serve on a term contract basis to minimize
any hesitancy in having to make the hard decisions, if need be, on account
of career considerations. As a condition of effectiveness two key
specialists would be recruited international', to support RFD: a Rural
Finance Advisor, and a Rural Banks Restructuring Advisor. The Rural Banks
Inspection Specialist would be recruited by September 30, 1989.
Recruitments to all three positions would require clearance by IDA (TORs in
Annex 3-8). The Agricultural Policy Coordination Committee set up under
the ASRP would be the coordinating committee for the implementation of this
project. The Committee would meet semi-annually as a forum for discussing



- 34 -
(a) constraints to increasing rural financial intermediation; (b) ways and
means of improving project performance; and (c) interagency concerns with
respect to participation in this project. RFD's initial capital expenses
for vehicles, microcomputers, and office equipment would be provided by the
project. RFD would be a separate cost center and would receive a 2 percent
margin on the BOGs' lending rates to participating banks to meet its staff
salaries and operating expenses. Technical assistance and initial research
expenses would be funded by the project.
4.08      A mid-term review of the project would be undertaken in December
1990 or when half the funds allocated to the line of credit have been
committed, whichever is the earlier. The main objective of the review will
be to (i) assess progress achieved under the restructuring program for
Rural Banks in terms of numbers of RBs covered in comparison to appraisal
targets; (ii) determine the qualitative structure of commitments under the
line of credit in terms of subsectors, subloan sizes, geographical spread
of lending activities and types of enterprises; (iii) assess RED capacity
for project implementation; (iv) review role of banks in the line of credit
and recommend ways for improving their effectiveness; and (v) determine the
efficacy of the rural finance monitoring program to be developed by BOG.
4.09      Currently the BOG uses credit ceilings to control the amount of
credit each bank may grant. This control mechanism does not include the
lending operations of Rural Banks. However, because the national level
banks are included in the calculation of the aggregate credit ceilings,
there is a risk that project funds may not disburse because of inadequate
provision under the ceilings. It is expected, however, that BOG will
exempt loans made under this project from the credit ceilings. Lending
under the Rural Finance Project would be small in comparison to total
private sector credit. BOG is developing an overall approach for the
treatment of externally funded projects in the calculation of credit
ceilings and agreement was reached at negotiations that the BOG guidelines
on credit ceilings would exclude lending under the Rural Finance Project.
F.   Accounting. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
4.10      The RFD would maintain separate accounts and adequate records to
reflect accurately, the project's operations and financial status. The RFD
would also maintain separate records for the operations of each
participating bank, and for the operations of special accounts. The trans-
actions made through SOEs and special accounts would be audited by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to IDA. Audited financial statements together
with the long form audit report would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the fiscal year. The auditors' reports on the SOEs and
special accounts should include an opinion on whether satisfactory
procedures are in operation. BOG would submit progress reports to IDA on
the status of project implementation within six weeks of the end of each
quarter.



- 35 -
V. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Justification
5.01      A well functioning rural financial system is important because
of its crucial role in mobilizing and allocating resources, in facilitating
market exchange, promoting specialization and market development, and in
providing investable resources necessary for rural capital formation and
growth. Ghana is in the process of strengthening its rural financial
system. Significant policy, institutional, and operational constraints
have inhibited the mobilization of resources and constrained the
availability of credit to productive rural activities for which there is
untapped demand. This project willt (a) improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation by strengthening rural financial institutions
through a program of financial restructuring and staff training in
managerial and financial skills; (b) increase efficiency through the
restructuring of RBs which will enhance their capacity to mobilize
additional resources and increase credit to the rural sector and thereby
enhance the private sector role in agriculture; (c) expand the volume of
rural financial intermediation through an injection of term resources; and
(d) improve the links with the informal sector through support for RBs and
CUs both of which provide financial services to small clients and informal
operators; further gains will be made through improved links between
commercial and development banks on the one hand, and RBs and CUs on the
other as both become more effective and efficient financial intermediaries;
Ce) help growth of CUs which represent one of the main sources of
smallholder credit, with loan funds generated through internal savings
mobilized by their own network. Thus their members benefit twice: first,
through the inculcation and reinforcement of a savings habit, and second,
through increased access to credit. An additional positive feature for
members is that they own and control their credit unions thus giving them
the opportunity to participate fully in democratic decision-making and the
development of their own institutions; (f) support the development of a
policy analysis and program monitoring capacity in rural finance, thus
improving the information and analytical base for the Government's
management of the rural secto:; and (g) provide long term benefits of
training and technical assistance in developing skills essential for the
sustainability of rural financial intermediation.
Risks
5.02      The main risk of the project is the possible slow pace at which
the banks may increase their share of term credit under the project to the
rural sector which they perceive as being more risky than the financing of
large scale commerce, trade or transport activities. The other risks
include the inability of banks to make quality loans; possible reluctance
of some RBs and CUs which are private sector institutions to participate in
the financial restructuring; and BOG's limited capacity to manage the
restructuring program. These risks will be minimized by requiring that:
(a) banks that need additional resources from BOG contribute 20 percent of
the total financing requirements for eligible subloans; (b) for RBs that
are unwilling to restructure, BOG would enforce changes via the
enforcement of prudential regulations, and by the exercise of its power to
close banks that are not financially sound; (c) BOG's ability to manage th3
restructuring program will be enhanced by technical assistance support; (d)



- 36 -
the multi-agency approach will minimize the risk of dependency on a single
agency: and (e) the mid-term review in December 1990 will also provide an
opportunity to reorient the project should unforeseen problems arise.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained
from Government of Ghana and Bank of Ghana:
(i) (a) BOG, by September 30, 1989, would abolish the ¢25,000
and $125,000 ceilings on sh%reholdings in Rural Banks by
individuals and companies respectively to enable RBs to
mobilize additional capital (para 3.05); (b) limit the
shareholding in a particular rural bank by individuals and
companies to not more than 5 percent and 10 percent,
respectively, of the share capital (para 3.05); (c) BOG
would ensure that each RB assigned all non-performing loans
to special collection accounts and made a commensurate
provision for bad and doubtful debt (para 3.05); and Cd)
BOG would award contracts to consulting firms, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, to undertake
diagnostic studies of RBs selected for review in the
subsequent year, by September 30 of each preceding year
Cpara 3.05);
(ii) abolish sectoral quotas by September 30, 1989, on lending
by RBs to allow them to build a good quality portfolio,
while retaining initially a 20 percent minimum for
agriculture (para 3.06);
Ciii)  (a) GOG would cause the ARB to submit its annual work
program to IDA for its review and agreement by September
30, 1989 and September 30, 1990 (para 3.08); (b) BOG would
by September 30, 1989, in collaboration with ARB, prepare a
shortlist of firms in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to IDA, for purposes of providing loan
appraisal services to RBs (para 3.10);
Civ)  GOG shall implement the recormendations arising from the
review of the cooperatives and credit union decrees, and
agreed to by all parties concerned by December 31, 1990
Cpara 3.09);
(v) Ca) BOG would examine each RB at least once a year, each
year of the project, using, if need be, private auditors of
its own choice (para 3.12); Cb) BOG would recruit a Rural
Banks Inspection Adviser by September 30. 1989 Cpara 3.12):
and (c) BOG would nominate its representatives to the 70 RB
Boards on which it has no representation by December 31,
1989 (para 3.13);
Cvi) BOG would cause RFD to: Ca) prepare, by December 31, 1989,
a monitoring system of the rural finance operations of the
banking sector including operations under this project
Cpara 3.16); Cb) sign a contract by June 30, 1990, for a
twinning arrangement with an external agency to provide



- 37 -
start up support for policy research and to strengthen
mechanisms for program monitoring (para 3.16); and (c)
complete, by December 31, 1989, a staff development program
comprising training, visits to other countries with more
developed rural finance policy research programs and
technical assistance support requirements (para 3.16);
(vii) BOG would implement the onlending terms and conditions
outlined in paras 4.05 and 4.06;
(viii) BOG would exclude from credit ceilings all lending under
this project (para 4.09); and
(ix)  BOG would comply with the accounting, auditing and
reporting requirements outlined in para 4.10.
6.02      Conditions for effectiveness
(i) GOG would provide a deposit guarantee on a one-time-only
basis to Rural Bank depositors who have outstanding claims
in the event of liquidation up to a limit of ¢100,000 per
depositor (para 3.06);
(ii)  GOG shall establish a Rural Bank Recapitalization Fund in
BOG with an initial sum equivalent to US$0.3 million for
purposes of providing liquidity to RBs' implementing
restructuring programs (para 3.07);
(iii) BOG shall prepare a statement of operating policies and
procedures for RFD acceptable to IDA (para 3.16);
(iv) BOG to have recruited specialists with qualifications,
experience, and terms of reference acceptable to IDA, for
the following positionss
Rural Finance Adviser (para 4.07)
Rural Banks Restructuring Adviser (para 3.07)
(v) GOG shall enter into agreement with BOG for the channelling
of part of the IDA credit to BOG on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01); and
(vi)  (a) GOG shall have signed participation agreements with at
least two national banks that meet eligibility criteria
(para 4.02); (b) the restructuring plan of the Agricultural
Development Bank (paras 4.03); and (c) BOG shall have
agreed to the restructuring plans for 20 RBs already
studied (para 4.02).
Recommendations
6.03           Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the
proposed Project is suitable for IDA Credit of SDR 15.2 million (US$20.0
million equivalent) to the Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms, with 40
years maturity.



- 38 -
Annex 2-1
GHANA
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
(tn percent) i/
Actual        Prelim.             Prolected
1984    1NS9   198S   19sm      in      199    1990   1991
GOP Growth Rate                   8.6    6.1    5.2    4.6         S.5    5.0    5.0    5.0
¢DY Growth Rat  /                 6.6    4.2    6.1    4.8         6.5    5.0    6.0    6.0
COY/Capita Growoth Rat   /        2.3    1.6    3.4    2.1         2.4    1.7    1.7    1.9
Total Consump./Capita Growth Rat. 4.4    0.1    3.8    1.8         1.9    0.9    0.9    0.9
Debt Service, MLT (in US81N U)/   403    416    n88    5600         10    527    440   389
Debt Service/XGS  j/             66.6   61.3   43.7   62.0   U6.2   57.3   43.2   82.6
Debt Service/CDP                  5.3    6.7    8.0   12.2    12.1   10.9    6.9    7.0
Gross Investsont/GOP              6.9    9.6    9.7   10.0    13.1   14.7   16.1   17.4
Domestic Savings/GDP              4.2    6.7    6.1    4.3         5.3    4.6    6.1       7.7
National Savings/COP              4.0    6.4    6.4    6.9         8.6    6.8    6.4    10.1
Marginal National Savings Rate    -      39.1    -1.6   10.7    14.5   20.2   22.0   23.6
Public Investment/CDP             2.6    4.2    6.4    8.1         8.3   10.2   10.6   10.8
Public Savings/COP               -0.6    0.1      1.7    3.3       2.6    3.5    4.1    4.6
Private Investment/COP            4.4    5.4    3.2    2.7         4.3    4.5      5.5    6.7
Private Savings/CDP               4.6    5.4    3.7    2.6         3.7    3.3    4.3    6.6
Ratio of Public/Private Invest.   0.67   0.78    2.0    3.0        1.73    2.27    1.93   1.56
Government Revenues/GOP           8.0   11.3   13.6   14.1    13.7   14.5   15.2   16.7
Government Expenditureu/C9P      10.9   15.4   18.8   19.3    19.5   21.5   22.1    22.0
Deficit (-) or Surplus (.)/CDP   -2.9   -4.1   -4.7   -5.2    -5.8   -7.0   -6.9   -6.4
Esport Growth Rate                2.0   21.9   12.4   10.3    -2.3   14.7    7.5    5.3
mspot/GP                          3.0   10.6   16.6   19.6    17.7   19.0   20.?    21.5
import Growth Rate               26.9    9.0   16.3   17.1         3.0    6.6      5.0     3.5
Imports/GOP                      10.6   13.6   20.1   26.1    25.6   2U.9   30.7   31.2
Current Aecoune (in USLM)        -214   -264   -203   -225    -329   -379   -380   -382
Current Account/CDP              -2.8   -4.2   -4.2   -4.9    -6.5   -7.9   -7.7   -7.3
Sources World Bank Estimates.
I/ Except where Indicated.
t/ COY per capita a COP per capita adjusted for changes in tho terms of trade.
g/ Includes IMF and payment of arrers.
O Exports of goods and non-factor services.
Note: Growth rates are calculated in real terms and 11 shares are calculated using current rice%
October 1s 1988



GHANA
RURAL FlNANCE PROJECT
Composite View of Ghana's Bankina Sector. June 30. 1987
Date              2 Govt.   Loan     Total                     Total                 Equity/  Deposits/
Bank                    Est.   Branches   Owner    Nos.       Assets*   Deposits*  Liabilities*   Eauitv*  Loans*        Loans*
Ghana Conmercial        1953     150        100    15,716    60,808      27,499       58,212        2,596     16.5S       175S
Standard Chartered      1896      25         40     6,919    14,390      10,263       11,678       2,080      30.1S       148U
Barclays                1917      30         40     4,918    17,059      10,922       15,013        2,122     43.22       2222
Bank f. Housing/Const. 1973       10        100     9,948    14,614       5,411       14,129          484      4.92        542
Social Security         1977      44        100     6,337    23,390      15,322       22,399          991     15.62       2422
National Investment    1963       10        100     3,881    14,976       2,747       14,420          556     14.3S        712
Ghana Cooperative       1946      76        100     1,236      N/A        1,242        N/A           N/A       N/A        100l
Agric. Development      1965      34        100     3,509      9,288       1,925       9,060          228      6.52        552
Nat. Savings/Credit    1972       18        100     1,175      3,784      2,114        3,544          240     20.4?       180?
Merchant                1971        3        30     1,924      7,540      2,706        7,116          398     20.7?       130?
Bank for Credit/Comm.  1978        1         13       421      2,170      1,349        2,081           89     21.1?       3212
Rural Banks**           1972     117         25     1,156      3,537      2,203        3,301          236     20.4?       191?
* Millions of Cedis.
**The First Rural Bank began operations in 1976. As of end 1988 there were 120 Rural Banks.
Source:  Banking and Insurance Guide of Ghana:  1988-1989.
AF4AG
November 1988



GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF BANKS* (JULY 1988)
Greater                                               Brong               Upper  Upper
Bank                    Accra  Ashanti  Western  Eastern  Central  Volta   Ahafo   Northern   East   West   Total
Ghana Comercial           23       23       14         23        14      22       10       5         4       3      150
Barclays                  10        3        3          6         2       2        2       1         0       0       30
Standard Chartered         9        3        5          1         3       0        1       1         1       0       24            a
Social Security            8       11        6          4         5       1        5       1         2       0       44
Agriculture Development   5         3         2         5         4       3        3       1         2        1      34
National Savings/Credit   8         3        1          2         1       0        2       1         0       0       18
National Investment        2        1        1          1         1       1        1       1         1       1       10
Bank for Housing/Const.   5         2        0          1         0       0        1       1         1       0       10
Merchant                    1       1         1         0         0       0        0       0         0       0        3
Bank of CreditlCommerce   1         0        0          0         0       0        0       0         0       0        1
Rural Banks                6       22       22         22        13      13       18       0         2       2      120
Total                     78       72       55         65        43      43       57      12        12       7      444
Z of total deposits      66.7      9.7      6.5       5.1       3.3      2.7     3.3      1.4        ---- 1.3 ---- 100
(*) Excludes Ghana Cooperative Bank; two bank branches unaccounted for
Source: Adapted froms Ghana, Rural Finance Study,
August 1988, by Technoserne



- 41 -                  ANNEX 2-4
Page 1 of 2
GHAWA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Lowering Transactions Costs
1.        The efficiency of rural financial intermediation would be
improved through a two-pronged approacht lowering transaction costs for
banks and their clients; and rationalizing rural banking services to
eliminate unnecessary duplication.
Transaction Costs
2.        Transaction costs typically exceed interest paid by small
borrowers and interest received by small depositors. Hence, rural
financial intermediation can be greatly boosted by minimizing these costs.
BOG can take several steps to reduce these costs. One is the provision of
large denomination currency notes and replacement of small notes with
coins. This would reduce the time taken to count cash and the space
required for its storage, and make cash transactions of all sorts more
convenient. A second measure is improvement in the distribution and
availability of currency notes in BOG depositories. Physical unavail-
ability of cash makes it difficult for banks to meet depositors' demands,
which has a high price in terms of public confidence. Easier access to BOG
depositories would permit more efficient cash management by financial
institutions in rural areas.
3.        Reduction in the time taken to provide funds in Accra against
non-cash deposits up-country would also be helpful. Likewise, improvements
in the clearing system would reduce intermediaries' transaction costs and
bolster confidence in banks and in financial instruments other than cash.
These measures would also increase liquidity in the formal rural financial
system.
4.        Transparency helps to reduce transaction costs, too, and con-
tributes to good management and prudential behavior and regulation.
Transparency is promoted by financial disclosure. While the production of
information required for transparency involves costs, these costs have a
positive developmental and social aspect, unlike those arising from having
to count bundles of cash, for example. Transparency in finance requires
incentives to disclose, skills in data generation, and systems of control
to ensure accuracy. More importantly, financial reporting should illu-
minate portfolio quality. Disclosure of portfolio quality leads to recog-
nition of the importance of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, and for
writing off arrears against these provisions. This, in turn, permits a
realistic view of capital adequacy, which is a fundamental incentive for
bankers to behave prudently and for prudential supervision by BOG.
5.        Transparency requires good accounting systems.  To achieve good
performance in record keeping, training and audit procedures are necessary.
Training contributes to efficiency by reducing the transaction costs of
bank administration, and permits better planning. Audit systems reduce



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-4
Page 2 of 2
risk and encourage prudential behavior. They also help banks ensure that
they are in compliance with BOG regulations. In combination with the
relatively low levels of financial skills that may characterize some of
these institutions, maintaining depositor and shareholder confidence
justifies promoting transparency through training, disclosure requirements
and BOG supervision.
6.        Government of Ghana could also help to greatly reduce
individuals' transaction costs by staggering payment dates for salaries of
civil servants and pensions. For example, teachers might receive their
monthly pay packets on the 5th of each month, agricultural officers on the
10th, policemen on the 15th, highway workers on the 20th, pensioners on the
25th.  This would eliminate the severe bunching and lengthy queueing that
now occurs in formal rural financial institutions through which these
payments are made. Of equal importance, staggering these payments would
also ease cash management problems in rural finance because there would be
a more even flow of notes. For formal rural financial institutions,
amounts spent by those receiving payments early in the month would be
recycled back to them in the form of deposits by merchants and others
providing services, and these notes would be available to meet subsequent
rounds of payments later in the month. For individuals, securing short
term accommodation from relatives and friends would be easier because
someone in the circle would just have been paid.
7.        BOG should review the rural cash distribution and the rural
clearing system. BOG could engage consultants to conduct studies upon
which a task force could formulate recommendations for rationalization.
Consideration should be given to initiating direct deliveries and pick-ups
of cash to commercial banks, RBs and any others dealing in large amounts,
using suitably secure vehicles which could be operated by CBs or private
security  companies.  There would be considerable economies of scale in
mapping definite routes and schedules so that one vehicle could service
many institutions in a day. BOG should restructure clearing requirements
and operating procedures in such a way that most RBs could develop clearing
arrangements with CBs. Clearing arrangements could encourage more
comprehensive links between RBs, CUs and the CBs. These relationships
could develop over time to include a reage of services including short term
accommodation, use of RBs as collection or receiving agents for CBs, and
other correspondent services related to money transfers. In all cases,
each RB should be entirely free to make its own arrangements on an
arms-length basis with CBs of its choice, or possibly with any large RBs
that would find it worthwhile to join the clearing house. CUs would also
continue to use CBs, or possibly RBs, of their choice for clearing.
Introducing the CBs between most RBs, CUs and the BOG could impose a
certain market discipline on the RBs and CUs. They would have incentives
to conduct their affairs properly in order to obtain better terms and
services from local CBs. At the same time, the small number of RBs having
sufficient clearing volumes and financial strength should be permitted
direct access to BOG clearing on the same terms as CBs.
AF4AG
March 1989



Annex 2-5
-- X X    3 3 X           - a  - - -
------------------7
go 0          f Xg    a  
I~~~~~~~
16
-c                                    11
- i                                13--------
i                                            -I--------- ----------
;-1 ~     ~ - -1  - - - - - - - - - - - -^ -               
I t     otag." we                                  .
-- -----           -   -  -   -   -   -
6  e   .4 i4 eX S  .1 |4
to                                   C
--   --   -   -   -   -  -   -----              -
0~~~~~~~~



RtRAL FINANCE PROJECT
Deoslt LiabiltIes of Rural Banks
I      TOTAL              SAVINGS ACCOUNT         CURRENT ACCOUNT          NO. OF BANKS
PERIOD     No. of Acc.I            I No. of Acc.I           I No. of Acc.I           I     In I
ENDIN     I Holders   I BALANCE    I Holder    IBALANCE    I Holders   I BALANCE    lReorti no I Opretlon
I          I             I           I            I          I            I         I
Jun. 1980 1 27,902   1   80,484,2471 21,949   1  28,476,9961  5,958   1  7,905,262 1   11        11
I          I             I           I            I          I            I         I4
June 1981  I 69,169   1   81,424,0141 47,251   1  90,995,8751  11,988   1 20,958,689 1   26   1 26
Jun. 1962 1 99,965   1  242,125.6771 79,289   1 106,7M2,1211 80,676   1 5,868,556  1   85   I 86
Jun. 19683    164,856   1  408,799,1621 122,494   1 878,041,8701  41,952   I 107,757,790  5 59   so
June 1904    26,072   1  687,062,6691 210,447   1 682,128,4811  56,625   1 156,524,827 I   82    9 64
June 1996  I 819,965    1  984,131,9071 251,   1 686,9065,36861 59,02   1 208,226,551 I  1O5   I 105
Jun. 1986  I 891,?31   1 1,108,589,6821 811,826   1 906,27,3161 90,405   I 278,81,714 1  1SC    1in
June 1987  I 461,121    I 1,868,56W,9701 879,647   11,408,264,0UI 1M1,474        465,272,848    110   1 11
June 1968  I 579,281   2,820,511,6091 456,200   11,686,882,M091 128,061    684,176,899 9  120   I 120
I          I             I           I            I                       I
Source: Bank of Ghana
AF4AG
Novwembr 1986



- 45 -
Annex 2-7
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Informal Financial Sector
1.        The informal financial sector comprises family, private
groups, providers of trade credit, money-lenders and installment
contract operators. It remains essentially private, remote from outside
enquiry and quantification. The basic level of informal financial
arrangements is through the family, where a tradition of sharing and
mutual assistance is strong and well-preserved. Family financial
arrangements are also very important for the remittance of funds to the
countryside.
2.        Private groups also play a major role in informal finance
because they provide a framework for confidence as well as funds
mobilization. These groups may be related to employment, as for
craftsmen or market women in the same trade or workers in the same firm,
to shared experiences such as attendance at a school, or to
participation in a religious group, for example. A common form of group
may be loosely termed a solidarity association. Market women, for
example, may make small weekly contributions to their association.
Their funds are accumulated to assist members facing personal
emergencies or business setbacks. These funds are an informal insurance
pool, a risk management device that helps keep group members and the
group itself whole. Another common form of group financial
intermediation is the susu, or rotating savings and credit association.
These are often operated in conjunction with solidarity associations,
but may also be free-standing. Each member contributes periodically,
usually at meetings of the group, and each round is distributed to a
different member in turn.
3.        Trade credit is important in the marketing system.  Producers
may extend credit to wholesalers, who likewise do so to retailers, who
may give their customers goods on credit. Customers may provide
materials to artisans to make goods to their order.
4.        At another level there are rural moneylenders who provide
funds in emergencies, such as the death of a relative. These funds are
unsecured and rates of interest are reportedly high. Resort to these
lenders, except as a result of circumstances beyond one's control,
carries a social stigma. Their appeal is instantaneous credit, even in
the middle of the night. Some moneylenders require the pledging of cocoa
trees, a practice that is reportedly widespread. These lenders, who may
be outsiders to the community in which the borrower resides, receive the
right to harvest the cocoa crop and at times also to take possession of
the farm until sufficient income from the pledged trees is obtained to
repay the loan. The pledging of cocoa trees appears to be an important
source of medium and long term informal credit in the southern part of
Ghana. More complex informal financial arrangements are based on
installment contracts, as is the susu. These appear to be primarily
urban. In the Greater Accra Region there are 500 installment fund
collectors who make daily calls on market vendors and house to house.
The typical contract is for 31 installments, paid daily. At the end of



- 46 -
Annex 2-7
Page 2 of 2
31 days the sum of 30 installments is returned to the contributor, and
the 31st is kept by the collector as a commission. There are many
variations based on this basic contract.
5.        Other varieties of informal intenmediation have centered on
the parallel markets for foreign exchange. These have been greatly
reduced with the introduction of wider access to foreign exchange
through the weekly auction system administered by the BOG and by the
establishment of bureaux de change. These bureaux assist those who want
foreign exchange outside the auction, to import goods not covered by
import permits, or for personal travel and to accommodate sellers of
foreign oxchange seeking a higher price than the marginal auction rate.
As of lata August 1988 the marginal auction rate was 0228 per US dollar,
while the informal selling rate for US dollars in Accra was about 0285
and the best buying rate was reportedly 0275.   This market is largely
urban.



iMAL FINANCE FROJT
PRPSED ACMIO
Problem Area                     Current Sttue                                       Reiidial Action                              Risponsible Party
I.       S lDVRV    FiNCW L
A.    Weak Foel Ira l Financial            Banks have large nan-           (I) (a) prepare adit. required for recapitalization. merger             WC/GoO
Inatitutions(Fll) Including        performing loans; excessive          or liquidation; (b) upgrade FI system_ and proedures;
Rural Bank- and Credit             arrears (ao high as 701 in           enure that financial statements fnirly reflect
Union.                             ame banks); financial                financial codition, performance and capital position;
informtion Is frquently             freee  OSR  (Directors, Officials, Shar holder and Related
out of date                         InSalders) deposits where capital or liquidity i-                                                                  .
inadequat; recpitaliz poorly-porforming FFI. through
capital increases, oals or arger; and liquidate  RI. where
ufficient new capital is not fortheoming. (c) provide
partial deposit Insurance on a once-only basis to facilitate
itI liquidation; do not cover DOSRI deposits.
(t") Inject capital to rehabilitate FFIs: Provide liquidity to          COO
Rb, in fore of grants or long-term paper qualifying as
liquidity reerves, for bad debts.
OQ
x 
M "



Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 8
i           lII I IIX               I | ISsi 
_        1.        . *i        {    
a~~~~~~~~~ e
1'



Problem Aroe                     Current statn                                     Resmdial Action                             Reepneiblo Party
C.    Rural fineeclal intermedia-        Clearing involves long delays    (i) Modernize claring facilities: (a) _Pee  up credit In lAcre          am
tien trstion cosa  o'e            In obtaining goDd funds.            for cesh depolt. Sy bankesu   at ON agencies up-coutny. with
high.              *apacially betwe  Accers and                       next day good funds objective: (b) _Pee  up clearing sa  that
up-country,                         the fate of an Item  is knsn within two bueines deya for
local clearIngs, within five busines days f*r clefrings
betwn o3w0r eonters. mnd within ten buinens daya for *II
others; (c) encourage  i  to clear through comercial
banking tnetitutiona, rather then directly with M0, to
prme financial diecipline and *ider links within rural
finane syatm;
Currency  upply and condition   (1i) Currency Reform: (a) iase lIrg  denomination not.o (cedi           ON0
;eed  see of cub.                   1000 . cedi h00D  c di 10000) and replace smal domination
notes with cono. end (b) Iporove specie dietribution by
Increasing note supply and mviilebilty in rural  erea.
Metot *etabliduiet of periodic caeh delivery and pick-up
rotee for all pres.o to be operated wherever possible by
commerica  bnks or contractors.
co
01 
00



Problem Ar..                     Current Sttsu                                       Resdial Action                             Reponsible Party
D      lbtime  li  distribution      (1) Iay rurel bek bread_. of          (i) (a) mintein freedm of ell FR1. to set their sun achWdlee of    o
of baking iatiatimt                mjor beakse wll a    . I             ch nar. Including interet Pat" an all depoit liebiliti.
in rural erass.                   rural bak  are                         nd 11 financial eeamata; and (b) permit lasee of commrcil
pnrof_itble.                         beak branche  to other cmrtial beaks atny ties; (c) where
auch soles cawot be ebffcted, permit _l.end convrsion of
breAche t_ o 9w or Ch. Byors could inclde  aff ewisting FM
or Oh, c=manItV g_ipa. en  an  others m       nyeeng requlraenste for
formaticn of i  or 0Cz and (d) perat beake to elrm  a brrech
It no buyer are funid within sin sonthe of publicatien of 
nraies of intenbion to elm  the b rad
Cii) Previous  of1-s em on           (11) Rtwiew etrte. an wooly of beaiag services. lnclud  No
aarell n  devlop-             M           O . °
ment baks outlets.                                                                                                                                         I
consideration for rolee
of    e ad CU.
Relation  of Ma VW  Cu with              Ma ted to ir  " euluelvely        (i) To faclitate lInaks within rural financial swytm md to               90a
other FXa.                        with M. VYry littie lateral           prat  finciel diecipline. provide offiqtil encouragement
link. mling raw  of                  of conult ens betwen co_ercial beekino. institutions,
services liited                     the Ruatl 9amker Aaeiation, and OCiA,     well we-isth
individual ii  end Oh, to facilitate correspondent reltiones.
including ue of ROD wnd  h as aoents for certain comrcial
beaing ervicee  and fctions. Any relationehips that evwoiw
shmld be entirely voluntary wa not subject to Ot oversight.
*ept through ordinary reporting raglrmante md eamination
ed  inpeption proedures.
0
0o



ProbeIg Aren                     Current Statue                                      Remedial Action                            Rasponsibl* Party
A.   R I Supervision  nd              (i) For inspecting rural banks.      (1) Trefor. the Purel banking Department into an Re                      On
Inection.                         the expertise and orientstion        Eceulnetion iertunt.
requird Is different            (I") i3ablie  ground rulee for the prepd tfnction.
frm thbt of inspecting the
priery end eecoWery bent,.
3.    e Iling of ekn  redit a        (i) The pr_ent method of enfor-       (i) Premit netimnl benk, to finenc  coee purchaeing.                  B0/D
Excese Liquidity.                 cing credit ceilings has
creeted excem liquidity in
bank. and mdc them irdiffer-
ant to depoeit mobilization.
Further. WC financing of
coco pturcheein  Inject.
edditional liquidity In the
ecy at a  time ehen benke
are flush with funds owing
to credit ceilings.
0~
" 0
O t



Proble Area                     Current Sttue                                      Remedial Action                            Reeponsible Party
C.   ODveetiture of nan-tanking    (i) It Is risky for a financing       (1)   odeuld not - n pon-bankkg busines. 900 should require
sctivitiea.                       institution to sesame bueinees      thee to divest.
rite in omerciel enter-
prism. ty hvbe trading
nd transport coaeni  started
during the period of eatra
seortes  in the economp.
1I.  RI9t i      _
A.    Risk Prvention and Reduc-    () Ad ta attention is not              i) Ensure sinisu  ebandards of loan appraisal, Including:           All Banks
tien                             given to quality of loa.             (a) sinies informtion  bout borroer; and Cb) flesibilIty
*eccotebilit, of lendare/           In losnt-sie, repeymnt schedule, ken puroe  lending rat                                                                           I
borreora for defnulta lass          scording to e s*yte of repaying capecity rating end risk 
been nrcodd.                        rating, *1I within defined  lits.                                                                                                 I
(ii) Institute eo_s sinliw follow-up: including docusentetion of
circumstances leding to default in each cmn and
clesification of each defaulter as  l Iful or isa victim
of circu_tances desrving e second chanc; (b) encouregs
sechange of Inforomtion sbout individusl deafaltare.
(iii) Facilitate us of leas  rights in lnd as collateral for long-       COe
trar bkel loans for lend iprovmnt and developent, *.g.
for fera-oechin-ry, by sorting out the lagel/adminletretiva
problems, - as to improve the security and realizability of
lerge loet.
(iv) Consider feasibility of setting up Special Recovery ewurt
for smllI loe up to, amy, cedi 0. *i Ill on, bypaseing the                                                              *D
lenthy civil procodur eode proceedings.
C l
0



Probloe Am                      Current Staetu                                     Rsmeliol Action                            bepoSaibie* Ptpo
.       isk Aselsilitieo.      tl) blsca-dmeetm of Rural euth.   (1) Crst. Rc itsillation P                    to iO   to provide  rA           00
aiso rea  to be ceed VP.            1iqulditY In huk. that Ie.,  initieted retructuritn.
(ii) Shiny Me my hav, to *rit off c1i) Provid me him ong deposit qarante. up to a limit
their loom gch, _y                  of fOMOoA per U  deposior.
jeoperdiss the eecriftu of
depoi to..
lv. ~       ~
IV.          w           -m 2mse
A.    inade_ate fund for tare-    (I) 0s-raqulom I eppete                (I) Link saeet to the lipe oF redit f,unds to eah husk's               nSo                                                           W
lawndin. very limitew            to Increase the flow of              effort to "IIIg term deposit kg r t    I bequIrng  tat
projet epprile_ Cepsoity.         tarm dep oalt to the                eah hak finance pert of th  loan for which it a
besing epatma In the                oAmlin  refinaning fm  4N unde the Project.
log tar. In the mdiui
term, finaneing of tars
loans hae been neglected.
*0
. 4
01
O t
p.,_



Annex 3-1
Page 8 of 8
x,  1 1             ' {   i i a                  I s 
,.0



- 55 -
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Investment Activity Models
The purpose of this Annex is to provide a prospectus of various
types of investments which may be presented for funding under the line of
credit component. In some cases the proposed capital investment would
involve a change in incremental working capital - which would arise. for
example, in introducing the use of fertilizers in crop production - to
enhance the profitability of existing investments. In other cases, the
investment establishes new production. A few processing and marketing
activities are also considered. The table below sum-arizes the financial
performance of the various enterprises considered. Families contribute 701
of the labor requir emnt in production activities unless noted otherwise.
Equity is 402 of the net investment unless noted otherwise. By 'net
investment,' particularly among production activities, we refer to the
total financial requirement less the cost of labor contributed at the
current rural wage (?350/day) by the participant and family.
Annual
Total          Net          Line of    Net Returns    Net Returns
Activity      Investment    Investment       Credit       (family)       Family md       IR
Maize*           191,255       151,000      100,000        90,396            761          94
Rice*            111,503        46,052       27,632        54,883           444           77
Sorghum/          73,372        45,197       27,118        27,933           443           47
Millet*
Cocoa*           111,262        72,797       43,678        79,875         1,783           69
Coffee*          131,418        86,338       51,803        66,672         1,047           53
Cotton*          127,530        56,780       34,100        91,565           704         >100
Pineapple*       670,463       613,426**    490,7411      704,938         3,357**       >100
Yams*            640,310       609,443**    487,5541      358,558         1,708**       >100
Fishing/      34,308,000   34,308,000   20,584,800    8,427,000          >1,700           44
Inshore
Fishing/       2,364,260    2,364,260    1,219,600         54,000           708           88
Canoe
Pishing/       1,000,000    1,000,000        60,000      <300,000            na          c30
Pond



- 56 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 2
Annual
Total          Net         Line of    Net Returns    Net Returns
ActLvity       Investment    Investment    Credit        (famlly)       FamilY md       IRR
¢             0              0            0                0¢ 
Poultry/       2,441.000    2,441,000    2,156,100        390,880         1,070          27
broilers
Poultry/       9,045,000    9,045,000    5,427,000    4,100,000           1,123          64
layers
Piggery        8,850,285    8,850,285    5,310,170    1,846,100           1,690          19
Processing
Gari           9,338,700    9,338,700    5,640,000    5,246,700              na          57
Maize            771,900       771,900      480,000       652,000         2,266        >100
Fish              94,300        94,300      150,000       126,500            na          52
Smoking
* Per hectare
** 601 family labor
1 202 equity
AF4AG
March 1989



- 57 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
RestructurinR of Rural Banks
1.   The Rural Banks restructuring itself would be programed as follows2
A. The 20 Rural Banks Studied
(i)       Receipt of Final Reports from consultants to include:
Action Plan
Implementation Schedule
Implementation Costs
(ii)      Agreement between BOG and RB Boards to implement an
appropriate organizational and financial restructuring
program.
(iii)     Select consultants for assisting each RB in implementing the
program.
(iv)      Receiving proposals from consultants, reviewing them for
selection.
(v)       Agreement on TOR for Accountancy and Financial Services,
fees and conditions of assignment.
(vi)      Consultants complete 'Accountancy Services    part of their
assignment.
(vii)     Consultants initiate "Financial Services" phase.
(viii)    RB Board meeting on further steps and to consider financial
and operational implications, formation of restructuring
task force.
(ix)      Ratification by RB shareholders, if financial implications
are considered significant and adverse.
(x)       Proceeding with further stages in restructuring -
reorganizations, mergers, acquisitions, receivership,
liquidation, etc. as appropriate.
B.   The Remaining 100 Rural Banks to be Studied
(i)       Classify them in two groups of about 50 according to
priority.
(ii)      For the first 50 RBs, decision by BOG whether the special
investigation of RBs should be kept distinct from annual
audits or could be combined into a consolidated assignment



- 58 -
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 3
to make it cost effective and also more attractive to
prospective professional firms. (See note in para C).
(iii)     Redraft TOR for the studies, based on decision taken under
(i) above, making them more focussed on matters relevant to
restructuring decisions, and include Action Plan,
Implementation Scheduling and Costings as requirements.
(iv)      Issue invitations and TOR to as many Accounting/Consultancy
firms as possible requesting their proposals.
(v)       Review proposals and shortlist the consultants considered
adequately qualified to carry out the assignments.
(vi)      Allocate RBs to the selected consultants as appropriate, and
reach agreement of the quantum and method of fees payment
and reimbursement of expenses.
(vii)     Receipt of reports from consultants.
(vii)     Repeat steps A (ii) to (x) above.
(ix)      For the remaining 50 RBs, repeat steps in B (ii) to (viii)
above.
2.   Rural bank restructuring would be carried out in two stages:
A.  Accountancy Services would include:
Updating all accounting records including: cash books, customers'
accounts, ledgers, control accounts and memorandum records;
Reconciliation of bank accounts, control accounts, investments etc.
Inventorising blank check books, pass books, fixed assets, security
stationery and other assets.
Computation of interest payable/receivable on loans and
overdrafts/depositors' balances, and postings thereof to customers'
accounts;
Preparation and mailing of customers' statements;
Mailing of customer balances confirmation certifications;
Completion of journal entries for necessary adjustments;
Compilation of preceding years' annual accounts and supporting
schedules;
Compiling borrowers files, securities and guarantor registers;



5 9 -
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 3
Updating responsibilities of manager and staff.
Detailing cash planning procedures.
Completing of all statutory records.
B.   Financial Services would include.
Classification of overdraft balances after review of applications,
authority, collateral, customer creditworthiness and conduct, and
expiry dates;
Classification of loan accounts after review of laon proposals,
financial viability of projects financed, authority, collateral,
progress of projects, and repayment record;
Action to complete loan files, including, documents essential for
legal enforceability of collateral and guarantees;
Evaluating overdue overdraft balances and loan repayments and decide
on appropriate follow-up action;
Investigating the cases which could qualify for rescheduling of
outstandings, and the terms on which such rescheduling would be
considered;
Assessing the need for and quantum of provision for unrecoverable
and doubtful debts to be made in respect of each delinquent accounts;
Writing off irrecoverable debts, and also increase provision for
doubtful debts as a-,propriate;
Ascertaining capital adequacy against Standard Criteria;
Arrangements for raising additional share capital to meet capital
adequacy standard;
Consideration of options for merger with or sale to other banks; or
resorting liquidation through legal receivership if continuity is
threatened by capital inadequacy, financial nonviability, other
serious management problems and operational difficulties.
Filing of statutory returns.
Detailing Management Information Services arrangements.
AP4AG
March 1989



- 60 -
Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
RUKML PINhNCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Rural Banks
Through the Association of Rural Banks
Objectives of the Association of Rural Banks
1.        The Association of Rural Banks (ARB) is the trade association of the
120 Rural Banks in Ghana. Its present constitution, adopted in 1985, lists
ARB's objectives as offering a forum for the exchange of information on rural
banking practices and problems, building relations among rural banks,
assisting economic development, promoting rural banking among rural people,
and collaborating with the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and other organisations, both
within and outside Ghana, to assist Rural Banks and rural development. A goal
of ARB is increasingly to provide services to its member RBs, lessening their
considerable dependence on BOG.
Background to ARB Training Activities
2.        An important area within ARB's objective is training.  It is
proposed to provide technical assistance (TA) for this function under the
Project. Training for rural bankers is now provided primarily by BOG's Rural
Banking Department, but the Project would support ARB's efforts to serve its
members by offering training specifically in response to their situations,
oriented toward Rural Bank chairmen, other members of Rural Banks' boards of
directors, and managers.
3.        ARB's training activities have included one- and two-day meetings
for members of the boards of directors of rural banks. These sessions have
included a mock board meeting, which has been conducted in each Region having
Rural Banks, and presentations on profits, liquidity, rural banking objectives
and the relationship between board chairmen and managers. These presentations
have been made by rural bankers who have prepared notes on these themes. ARU
has no formal training materials of its own. ARU plans to expand its training
program to include: (1) lending principles and policies, to help combat
rising loan delinquencies: (2) savings mobilization, because deposit growth
has levelled off at some rural banks, and (3) project identification and where
to obtain assistance with project analysis, so that rural banks could
participate more effectively in rural development.
4.        There are several additional subjects that deserve the attention of
Rural Bank board members and managers. These include: (a) accounting
principles and interpretation of rural bank financial statements, (b) the role
of bank capital and the importance of capital adequacy, (c) preparation for
and responses to BOG inspection, (d) role of external auditors, (e) how to
open and operate a Rural Bank agencies, (f) liquidity management, (g) building
relationships with commercial bankers, and (h) serving credit unions and other
community groups.



- 61 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 3
Curricula and Training Materials Development SuvRort
5.        To assist ARB to expand its training activities and to build a
battery of appropriate training materials, it is proposed that two specialists
be engaged under the Project: a training specialist and a financial
management systems specialist. Each would be engaged for a period of three
years.
6.        The training specialist would work with the ARB Education Committee
to establish training priorities, following a review of the training ARB has
given and of members' concerns. This specialist would be responsible for
curriculum development and for the preparation of training materials in
different media, with emphasis on case studies, course notes and exercises.
This task would involve inputs from many individuals with specific skills,
coordinated by the specialist and under the oversight of the Education
Committee. In certain cases training materials available abroad could be
used, or adapted to Ghanaian conditions. The training specialist would also
advise ARB on acquisition of training equipment, including projectors of
different types, computers and printers and equipment for reproduction of
training material, and other teaching materials and aids.
7.        The financial management systems specialist would be responsible for
assisting Rural Banks with their use of BOG-specified accounting systems and
procedures, and for recommending improvements in these systems. This
specialist would assemble course notes, case studies and exercises for
training rural bankers in financial management system operations, in
collaboration with the training specialist. The specialist would also work
with rural bankers to develop procedures for making financial plans and
forecasts and for helping bankers develop strategies through improved
financial decision-making. Here, too, models and other training materials
would be drafted in collaboration with the training specialist.
Loaistical Support
8.        To operate on an expanded scale, ARB requires more office space than
it presently occupies in the quarters of BOG's Rural Banking Department.
Accordingly, the project would support the location of suitable premises, and
the capital costs of their modification and refurbishing. It is not envisaged
that these quarters would constitute a permanent training center -- ARB's
tradition of holding training sessions at various locations around the
country, often at educational institutions during periods when classes are not
in session, should continue for the convenience of its members and for reasons
of economy. In addition, the Project provides funds for the acquisition of
office equipment and reference materials for a library.
9.        The two specialists as well as the ARB Administrator would also
require vehicles, and three would be provided under the Project, along with a
provision to cover their operating costs. Four motorcycles would also be
provided.
Local Cost Contributions
10.        The Project would require greatly increased support for ARB by its
member Rural Banks. Funds would be obtained through member banks' pledges for



- 62 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 3
support to ARB over a three-year period. When 902 of the first year's pledges
are subscribed, external support would be available under the project. Rural
Banks in arrears in their membership dues to ARB and in their pledges under
the Project would not be permitted to participate in training provide. under
the Project.
Obiective of Proiect Assistance
11.       The project endorses ARB's objective of upgrading skills in rural
banking and improving the soundness of Rural Banks. This approach permits
improvements based on the experiences of the most professional and strongest
ARB members.
AF4AG
March 1989



- 63 -                   Annex 3-5
Page 1 of 10
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Credit Union Development
Introduction
1.        One of the key objectives of the Rural Finance Project is to
formulate and implement a rural financial program to increase the volume.
efficiency and sustainability of rural financial intermediation by
strengthening rural financial institutions. In exploring ways and means to
achieve this objective, the World Bank has focused particularly on national
level commercial banking, Rural Banks and Credit Unions. Recognizing that
Credit Unions represent a private sector people's movement, the Project
provides funds for strengthening the Credit Union movement.
2.        Ghana is the birthplace of the African Credit Union movement.
The first Credit Union in the continent was established in Jirapa, Upper
West Region in 1955. The Credit Union movement grew steadily until the
early 1980's when it went into a period of decline in tandem with the
severe recession which battered the entire Ghanian economy. The movement
began to revive in 1966 and has now reached a position where it serves
49,000 members in 239 official Credit Unions. Member savings generated by
the Credit Unions are currently 165 million Cedis, while loans outstanding
to members are 121 million Cedis. Ghanaian Credit Unions have a national
association known as the Ghana Cooperative Credit Union Association Ltd
(CUA). CUA was established in 1968. with a view to educating, promoting,
organizing, supporting and representing the interests of the Credit Unions.
CUA now has a staff of 42, including 26 in Accra and 16 working out of
regional offices up-country. The services they deliver include promotion,
member education, auditing, operation of a central fund to serve the loan
and investment needs of member Credit Unions, technical assistance to
Credit Unions, and the provision of life and loan protection insurance.
Credit Unions could represent a highly effective vehicle for mobilizing
rural savings and making productive credit available for rural based
members. However, in order to achieve their potential, Credit Unions need
to be strengthened in terms of their bookkeeping, financial and statistical
reporting, loan and investment administration, and liquidity and risk
management. This can be accomplished through improved audit, supervision,
technical assistance and training services from CUA, but this can only
occur if CUA itself is strengthened. At the same time, new
Cooperative/Credit Union legislation is needed in order to provide the
proper environment for the future growth and development of the credit
union movement.



- 64 -                       Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 10
Obiectives
3.        The goal of the Credit Union Development component of the Project
is to put into place the conditions which will permit increased
mobilization of savings and provision of credit to an increasing number of
credit union members over the long term. Specific objectives are as
followss
1.   To strengthen CUA's capacity to deliver quality services to its
members in the areas of audit, supervision, technical assistance
and training.
2.   To improve the management and operation of CUA's central fund.
3.   To strengthen the capacity of Credit Unions to perform key
operational functions and thus improve the quality of services
they offer to their members.
4.   To develop new Cooperative/Credit Union legislation through a
democratic, participative process.
Implementation
-    The implementation of a Credit Union baseline data
study.
-    The provision of long term technical assistance to assist CUA in
its institutional development.
-    The conduct of an external audit of CUA.
-    The assignment of short term technical cooperants to provide
training to CUA in the areas of auditing, training techniques,
central finance policies and procedures. credit union operational
systems, Credit Union bylaws, planning processes, board and
committee functions, and computer applications.
-    The conduct of a democratic participative cooperative legislation
review process, which will result in the enactment of new
cooperative legislation with a clearly defined Credit Union
section, by the mid-term of the project.
-    The implementation of a personnel reorganization within CUA,
which will include the recruitment of one new regional field
officer and two new auditors.
-    The provision of essential equipment, vehicles and travel support
for CUA.
-    The upgrading of the CUA office building, and
-    The provision of limited amounts of credit to CUA's Central Fund
during the final two years of the project, after the
institutional strengthening process has taken hold.



- 65 -                      Annex 3-5
Page 3 of 10
4.        Implementation of the Credit Union Development component will be
carried out by CUA and supported by technical assistance required to
improve operational procedures and skills.
5.        This component is expected to cost a total of US$3,765,717.  At
the same time, the Canadian Cooperative Association (CCA) proposes to
provide US$156,770 for the immediate implementation of certain project
activities which should be undertaken urgently, i.e., the Credit Union
Baseline Study, some initial CUA Board training, the provision of certain
equipment to CUA, and the refurbishing of the CUA office building.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.        CIDA will provide full time Accra based Coordinator for the
project, whose responsibilities will include the provision of project
monitoring services. Additional monitoring services will be provided by
headquarters staff who will visit the project twice yearly. The Credit
Union component would also be avaluated at mid term and end of project to
determine to what degree planned inputs had been provided and plan
objectives had been achieved.
7.        During the first two years of the project, monitoring will focus
on the adherence of project activities to the implementation schedule and
the provision of project inputs. During the latter three years, monitoring
will also focus on project outputs and indicators. Key outputs/indicators
will include: the annual audit by CUA of all its Credit Unions; the
maintenance of complete, accurate and up to date accounts and financial
reports by participating Credit Unions, the enactment of new
Cooperative/Credit Union legislation, the virtual elimination of loan
delinquency in CUA's Central Fund, a 10 percent reduction in loan
delinquency among all participating credit unions by the fifth year of the
project.
Justification/Risks
8.        Greater access to rural credit is needed in Ghana to increase
smallholder productivity, enhance rural business development, create rural
employment opportunities, and meet the emergency needs of those who are
suffering the social costs of Ghana's Economic Recovery Program. Credit
Unions represent one of the best sources of this credit, as their loan
funds are generated through internal savings mobilized by their own
network. Thus their members benefit twices first, through the inculcation
of a savings habit, and second, through increased access to credit. An
additional positive feature for members is that they own and control their
Credit Unions thus giving them the opportunity to participate fully in
democratic decision making and the development of their own institutions.
9.        Credit Unions have a long estbalished history in Ghana.  Although
they suffered from Ghana's economic recession, they weathered this period



- 66 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 10
more effectively than many other Ghanaian institutions, and are now on the
rise again. Much of this rejuvenation can be attributed to dynamic new
leadership at CUA's management and Board levels; at the same time, the
Ghanaian Government's Economic Recovery Program is beginning to create
conditions which are more conducive to Credit Union growth and development.
These factors are expected to remain in place throughout the duration of
the Project.
10.       Some of the key risks to be considered in executing the project
are the dependence of CUA on the leadership capabilities of a small number
of individuals; the CUA staff turnover which will possibly arise as CUA
staff become better trained and therefore more attractive to other
prospective employers; and conflicts/inefficiencies which may arise if
certain Cooperative Department control oriented policies and practices are
not relaxed. There would also be significant risk to the project if the
Ghanaian economy went into another downturn.
11.       Counterbalancing these risks are the strong sense of dedication
on the part of CUA's leaders and staff, the fact that CUA salaries will be
increased through the project, and the commitment of senior Ghanaian
Government officials to increased autonomy for Ghana's Credit Union system.
12.       Assurances would be sought from the Government of Ghana would be
sought in three areas which will affect the Credit Union Development
component, i.e.:
-    The Government would enact new Cooperative/Credit Union
legislation by the mid-point of the project, using a democratic grass roots
participatory review process;
-    The Cooperative Department would utilize its discretionary powers
to relax certain restrictive and control oriented procedures pertaining to
their relationship with CUA and primary Credit Unions; and
-    There would be no change in the General Manager of CUA without
prior consultation with the agencies referred to in this project component.
13.       Details may be referred to in the Credit Union Implementation
Plan (Appendix to this Annex).
AF4AG
March 1989



GHANA
RUMIL FINMNCE PROJECT
Credit Union Development
Implementation Plan
3. Component impleuentdtion Plan:
Objective  1:                             Verifiable Indicators/Outputs:            leplesenation Activties:                  Responsibility (Local):
CUA providing an improved and             Eight CUA auditors auditing               Recruit 2 additional auditors.            CUA 6eneral Ianager
quality service to its member             each credit union annually
credit unions including audit,            applying standards/procedures             Conduct three, thirty day                 CUA Training Officer
supervison, technical                     as defined in ACCOSCA audit               audit training sessions during
assistance and training.                  manual.                                   year one, two and three.
Audit reports as per unual                Management decision to adopt              CUA leneral llnager.
formats,                                  report foreats and monitoring
of standards.
Eleven field officers providing           Reorganization of headquarters            CUA General Manager
a at least two technical assist-          staff resulting in an Increase            and Board
visits to each of their asigned           In the number of field staff.
credit unions annually.
Local and regional training               Annual thirty day training the            CUA Training Officer
courses for credit union                  trainers course for field field
committees and staff which                officers, training officer and
are participative in nature,              field services/audit manager.
use effective training aids,
and result in iaproved                    Application of effective                  Training Officer
operational skills in essential           training aids instructing in
credit union processes,                   essential operational processes.
Application of participative              CUA General lInager and  i
training methods vhich are                Training Officer.          h  0  0
part of WA's training
system following the adoption                                        "      'I'
nd implementation of the
ACCOSCA and ilOCCU training
mnull.



Objective  2:                            Verifiable Indicators/Outputs:           Iqplementation Activities:               Responsibility:
Improved management and oper-           Organized system of filing               Annual audits of CUR.                    CUA general Nanager and
ation of CUA's central liquid-           permitting storage/retrieval                                                      Board.
ity facility including account-          of all financial reKords and             Short and long term technical
ing, reporting, billing, loan           data.                                    assistance to document central           Consultant/long tere
and investoent administration,                                                    finance procedures related to            Advisor and CUA
liquidity and risk management.           vouchers, cash receipts and              accounting, inforoation manage-          general Manager.
disbursesent journals and                sent, reporting, budgeting,
savings ledgers up to date               operating eargins, investments
including accural of interest.          and loan policy and procedures
(thirty days consultancy).
Aging report to eanagement
on delinquent dues, loans and            Adoption of procedures and               CUA General hanager
capitalization at least                  related manuals.                         and Board.
quarterly.
Training of staff in the                 Training Officer.
Monthly statesent of receipts,           application of related
disbursements, incose and                procedures.
expenses and a balance sheet
of assets and liabilities which          Too thirty day computer and              CUA 6eneral Manager
meet the standards set forth             software training programs               Advisor and Consultant.
in the ACCOSCA accounts manual.         completed during year one
and two.
Months statements of accounts/                                                    CUA 6eneral Manager
billings, to meeber credit
unions reflecting savings, dues,
loan and interest balances
and 4he age of delinquent loans.
An aggressive dues and loan                                                      CUA General Manager
collection program.
Interest rates on loans to                                                       CUa Board
credit unions consistant uith
the tonmerical market.
Application of guidelines xhich                                                   CUA Board and General
establish CUR's net operating                                                     hanager                     x   o i
argins on sember deposits and                                                                                     e
loan funds.c



Objective 2, continued:                  Verifiable lndicatwo/utputs:             Iaplementation Activities:               Responsibility:
CUA central finance...                   Application of Written loan             Ina', pment, docKmntation                CUA Buard/ 6eF ral Nanapr
eligibility criteria as basis           and approval of written loan              and Advisor.
for qranting loans to credit            policies and procedure using
unions as follows:                      short and lnng term technical
assistance.
- Paid dues fo current and
prior year.                          Training of CUA staff and                Training Officer.
credit comittee to properly
r Paid into central fund               apply procedures.
a percentage of the
credit unions surplus
liquidity Ipercentage to be
set by ABJI).
- Woos/records up to date
and provide CUA with cou-
plete monthly financial
and member loan status
report.
- Esential comittees meeting
monthly.
Estabishleat and application of          hvelop and docuent as part              CUA Board and 6entral
loan lisit criteria.                    of short and long tero                   mlanager/Advisor.
teckhnical asSistance.
System of financial and anage-
ment analysis of each credit
union requesting a loan, prior
to approval, establisbeod and
operating.
to C
0



Objective  3:                           Verifiable lndicatorsllutputs:            lplemeotation Activties:                 Responsibility:
Essential credit union oper-            All bookkeeping and financial            Baseline study completed.                 CUA General Ranager
ational processes performed at           reports cosplete and up to date.                                                  and Consultant.
acceptable levels including:                                                     Eight auditors trained, and
bookkeeping, financial and               Financial and statistical                audits conducted to establish            Training Officer
status reporting, loan and               reports complete and submitted           training and technical                   and Field Servicesl
investsent administration,               to WUA  onthly.                          assistance requirements.                 Audit Nanager.
liquidity and risk management,
in credit unions identified              Cash and member deposits safe-           Credit union development                 EUA General hanager
as capable from the baseline             guarded through Internal control         program designed and adopted             and Field Services/Audit
study.                                   procedures specified in the              by participating credit unions           Nanager.
credit union accounting nanual.          taylored to elimenate weaknesses
Identified.
Application of model written
finandial policies pertaining            Series of training prograss              Training Officer.
to investment and liquidity             carried out at the local
requirements, interest rates on          and regional level designed to
savings and loans, loan policies         achieve skill levels required
and procedures including                 to achieve outputs listed
appraisal criteria, collateral          bere.
and collection requirements.                                                                                       C.
Directors meeting monthly to                                                     Local Board
review credit union performance,
establish goals nd plans of
action, supervise management
and other committees work,
pqrform duties prec*ibed in
by-laws, and maintain enrolment
in insurance program.
_
01
ol
ft1C



Objective  3, Continued:                 Verifiable IndicatorslOutputs:          Iplementation Activties:                 Responsibility:
Credit comittee meeting at                                                        Loci Board
least monthly to appraise and
grant Imans *olloling a written
loan policy approved by the
Directors.
Supervisory Committee meeting                                                     Local Board
monthly to ensure maintenance
of internal controls,.approved
policies and procedures are
followed, reconcile member
savings and loan balances in
member ledgers to amounts in
tember passbooks and report
findings of their general
inspections to the directors
and membership.
Education co6eittee meeting                                                       Local Board
and carrying out sembership
and savings praotion activities
at least quarterly.
X  0



Objettive  4:                            Verifiable                  Its:         tepleemntation ktivities:                Re^poflsibilty:
b velopamnt and enacttent of             Review of current cooperative            Formation of cooperative review          Secretary, Iilistry d
enabling cooperative legislation         legislation to identify both             conittee consisting of repre-            h obilization and Social
through a democratic and part-           promoting and inbibiting                 sentives frou  the national              Nelfare.
icipative process, which will            factors.                                 ape  cooperatives, Depirteent
support effective credit union/                                                   of Cooperatives, Ninistry of
cooperative adoi.Mstration and           Review of progressive legislation        Robiliaation and Scial
developsent.                             from other countries and cross           Welfare, and the Attorny
referencing with Ghana's current         eneral's Office.
act.
Publication of and carrying              Secrtarry, Ninistry of
Drafting a neu tooperative act          out scheduled reviews and                Nobilization and Social
with sub-sections for financial         meetings.                                 Yelfare.
farmer, trade and service
cooperatives.                            Independent outside technical            Secretary, Ninistry of
advice provided by short term            fobilization and Social
Review of draft by cooperative           TA.                                     Welfare.
membership represented by the
fifteen national apex
cooperatives.
Final draft cooperative act                                                      Secretary, Ninistry of
submitted for approval.                                                           nobilization and sKial
Velfare.
New cooperative act approved
by Ohana Governeent by project                                                                - do -
aid term.
a o
ow



- 73 -
Annex 3-6
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Pilot Programme for Strengthening Farmer Cooperatives
Background
1.          The government's policy for self sufficiency in food and raw
materials has placed an inordinate burden on the agricultural sector in Ghana,
a sector where 681 of the farmers cultivate farms averaging less than two
hectares. Smallholder cultivation is dominated by traditional methods of
production under rainfed farming. Average yields and productivity are low,
and marketing surpluses rare. Limited adoption of improved cultural
techniques by smallholders, limited availability of inputs and credit, as well
as limited access to attractive marketing outlets, are the main factors
inhibiting the production of marketable surpluses.
2.          The Government's ongoing efforts at raising agricultural
productivity through strengthening research and extension, and through
increased privatization of farm input supply, are not as evident in the same
degree when it comes to providing credit facilities for smallholders. To
enable smallholders to produce surpluses, to undertake on-farm investments,
and to function in an environment where price determination is eventually left
to market forces, they will need to be given access to credit facilities that
go beyond the traditional ones that presently exist.
3.          A major challenge for Ghana's financia' institutions, therefore,
is to devise an innovative approach for meeting the credit needs of the small
peasant farmer in a manner that encourages both their own financial soundness
and the farmer's agricultural productivity. Experience to date noirts to
increasing reluctance by rural financial institutions to lend to individuals
in this target group, given the latter's poverty, illiteracy and lack of
collateral. There is evidence to indicate, however, that when individuals
group together, to form, for instance, a cooperative, they stand a better
chance of gaining access not only to credit, but also to input supply and
marketing outlets.
4.          Ghana is fortunate in the existence of a basic cooperative
infrastructure. Given an apparently strong tradition, rare in most developing
countries, for people to save even small amounts of money, cooperatives offer
a viable alternative for mobilizing this ready source of savings. Farmers and
businesses have, for many years, been organizing themselves into groups of a
minimum of ten individuals, and have registered as cooperatives, that is,
Primary Societies (PS) with the Department of Cooperatives (DOC) of the
Ninistry of Mobilization and Social Welfare (MBSW).
S.          The performance of the cooperatives in Ghana, has, in general,



- 74 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2 of 9
been weak. This has been partly due to non-economic intervention ln the
cooperative movement by the Government, and lack of traiding of cooperative
members in basic accounting and financial planning, management and decision-
making. Providing education and training in these areas is the responsibility
of DOC which, in addition to its inspection, audit and registration functions,
has been unable to fully carry out its role, because of limobility and
shortage of trained staff. Other reasons include the low membership of
cooperatives, and the relatively small volume of their business. These
factors, together with the decline in economic activity and drought of the
early 1980s, aggravated the cash flow of many tr.litional farmers making it
difficult for them to repay their loans. What followed was a worrisome
situation where rural financial institutions, already suffering from internal
weak financial management, were, in turn, adversely affected, and became even
more discouraged from lending to the traditional farmer.
6.          The urgent need for restructuring rural financial institutions has
been recognized by the Government. Furthermore, it views the cooperative
sector as a priority sector of the economy. However, this reinforced focus,
coming at a time when the economy continues to rehabilitate itself, also
implies that the new policy regime proclaiming economic liberalization will,
more likely than not, make an even stronger demand on rural financial
institutions and grass roots cooperative societies to attain financial
viability.
7.          Increased and eventual privatization of farm input supply
including fertilizer, the phasing out of the fertilizer subsidy by 1990 and
liberalization of interest rates are all likely to raise the credit needs of
the farmer substantially. Unless he is able to raise the productivity and
efficiency of his farm operation through the adoption of improved technical
packages and through innovative approaches to procurement and marketing, it
will be difficult for agriculture to play the major role expected of it in
creating employment opportunities and higher incomes in rural areas. For this
purpose, and within Ghana's socio-economic environment, it will be necessary
to support the strengthening of cooperative societies at the grass roots to
enable them to become financially strong, independent, and creditworthy.
8.          The Government has enunciated a policy of revitalizing
cooperatives in its recent document 'Action Programme on the Reactivation of
the Cooperative Spirit in Ghana". It intends to launch an intense national
education campaign on the benefits of cooperatives and to streamline the
existing network of cooperative societies, through the Department of
Cooperatives.
Objective of the Pilot Programme
9.          The objective of the proposed pilot programme is to enable
selected registered primary cooperative societies, engaged in agricultural
activities, to become financially viable by enabling their members to adopt
new and improved technical packages, economies of scale from group procurement



- 75 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3 of 9
of inputs and marketing, basic education and training of staff and members in
simple accounting, farm input management, independent financial decision
making and cooperative extension, and establishment of credit links with
formal sector rural financial institutions.
10.         It is proposed that a pilot programme in the economically backward
Upper West Region be undertaken to promote the financial viability of about
four groups of farmers registered as primary cooperative societies, together
with one primary society involved in agroprocessing. This effort would be
facilitated and implemented by an NGO and relevant District Cooperative
Offices, and coordinated and monitored by the Head Office of DOC.
11.         One district in the Upper West Region would be considered for the
pilot programme. Selection would depend on the location of qualifying primary
societies as registered with DOC. It would be desirable to include a district
where the primary societies are located relatively close to each other and are
also in the vicinity of an irrigation dam. If membership of these societies
turns out to be relatively small, a proposal to form a single legal entity of
the five groups identified would be considered to enable the beneficiaries to
derive the full benefits from group procurement of inputs and the joint
marketing of output.
Criteria for Success
12.         The extent to which participating cooperatives are able to
undertake group procurement and marketing activities on their own, and the
extent to which they have established firm credit links with rural financial
institutions, will constitute the basic criteria for success of the pilot
programme. Other criteria would include visible multiplier effects stemming
from accelerated and complete adoption of improved technical packages, higher
crop yields, increased education of members in agricultural and cooperative
extension, greater practical knowledge in basic accounting and banking
practices, and expansion in membership and number of registered cooperatives
in the area.
Project Description
13.         The exact design and implementation of the proposed pilot
programme would be finalized after completion of the feasibility study. The
project as described here may will, therefore, be subject to modifications. T
e two main components would aim at: (i) providing farm inputs, tools,
implements and simple and unsophisticated farm machinery and equipment to
members of the Primary Societies; and (ii) ensuring increased mobility and
logistical support in the form of office equipment and teaching aids to
participating District Cooperative Offices.
14.         The participating NGO would work closely with the members in each
Primary Society. It would help them to procure, as a group, essential farm



- 76 -
Annex 3-6
Page 4 of 9
inputs, provide assistance in arranging profitable marketing outlets, and
encourage innovation approaches in the production, processing and marketing of
farm produce. Furthermore, it would make available, where required, forms of
technical assistance related to cooperative member's farm operations including
the appraisal of on-farm investments. Such technical assistance would also be
provided for group investments, for example, a common grain storage facility
for cooperative members, a dam excavation and construction project etc.
15.         The Department of Cooperatives district level field staff would
collaborate with the NGO and complement the latter's efforts with its own
through technical assistance related to cooperative extension.  This would, in
addition to routine education on cooperatives and cooperative procedures,
include the training and education of members i. basic accounting, book-
keeping, farm operations planning, simpte budget preparation, benefits of and
procedures for savings and investment, "nd the principle and necessity of cost
recovery. There is every likelihood that the objective to educate the farmer
in these disciplines will be successfully achieved. The uneducated "susu'
collector, after all, has learnt many of these basic skills in accounting,
simple book-keeping and financial management, primarily on his own, and
without formal tutoring.
16.         The District Cooperative Officers (DCOs) and their Assistant
Cooperative Officers (ACOs) would also facilitate membership expansion,
acquaint members with the bye-laws of the PS, inform them of the correct form
for conducting society meetings and the importance and method of recording
Minutes of the meetings held.  Furthermore, an effort will be made by them to
mobilize support from the Institute of Adult Education to teach formally
uneducated members basic reading and writing skills. Both the NGO and DOC
would work closely, as they already do, with MOA extension officers. The
District Cooperative Office would see that visits to members' farms at
appropriate and critical times by the agricultural extension officers take
place.
17.         Central to the project will be the requirement that the PS
members/beneficiaries will pay for the cost of project inputs, on-farm
investments and any credit extended. In order to achieve higher farm incomes
and to build up their creditworthiness, primary societies would need to raise
productivity on their farms and also strengthen their capacity in farm
management and financial planning. Accordingly, the agricultural extension
service, while not formally part of the pilot, would continue to promote
adoption of improved technical packages for achieving higher yields. The NGO
would basically concentrate on building awareness and improving stills
necessary for group input procurement and output marketing, and any other
required entrepreneurial skills. For a predetermined fee, procurement and
marketing arrangements could also be undertaken by the group for interested
non-member farmers in surrounding areas. Efforts will be made to encourage
farmers to deal as much as possible in procurement of inputs with the existing
Farmers Services Centres (FSCs) now being privatized, provided the latter are
competitive in their pricing structure and are able to establish a good record
in the timely availability of supplies to farmers. Finally, it would be the



- 77 -
Annex 3-6
Page 5 of 9
DOC, through its district office, that would train the members in financial
and cooperative management methods.
18.         Farm inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, as well as tools,
implements, equipment and machinery would be prefinanced through a local
financial institution, and would be made available to farmer members through
the NGO in proportion to the respective area cultivated by each. Members
would agree to repay in installments through a proportion of the proceeds of
the harvest.  Each member would open an individual account at a local
financial institution. Gradually, the cooperative society would, it is
expected, reduce its reliance on the NGO and undertake farm financial
planning, budgeting, procurement and marketing on behalf of its members
independently.
19.         Repayments for loans for farm inputs and equipment procured would
be accepted in-cash or in-kind and would be credited to each member's bank
account. Any repayments for investments undertaken on behalf of the society
members as a group would be paid into a special account opened in the name of
the PS. Gradually, as the productivity and finances of the group improves, it
could take up the possibility of arranging an overdraft facility with the same
or any other local financial institution without the intervention of the NGO.
The pilot would, thus, lay the foundation for the forging of a solid credit
link between small farmers, both individually and as part of a group, with any
of a variety of financially sound formal sector rural financial institutions.
20.         Demonstration and multiplier effects, emanating from the pilot
programme for member and non-member area farmers alike, are considered
essential and crucial for development in the Region. Accordingly, it is
proposed that the PS set up a model farm by a volunteer member that would
demonstrate the overall and interactive benefits that could ensue both from
the complete adoption of improved technical packages, as well as from
economies of scale resulting from group procurement and marketing. The
success of the model farm would be reflected in the model farmer's improved
and sustained cash flow. Ideally, one would want all members to volunteer as
model farmers. In the absence of a volunteer farmer the Chairman of the
Management Committee of the PS would assume the role of the model farmer.
21.         Given the critical shortage of adequate numbers of skilled staff
within the Department of Cooperatives as a whole, the Government is in the
process of harnessing resources to rehabilitate the Cooperative College at
Kumasi. To enhance these efforts, it is proposed to support, through
technical assistance, a training programme for cooperative trainers, and a
detailed review of the curriculum and its redesign if called for.
Identification of Target Groups
22.         The primary societies to be included in the pilot would be
identified with the assistance of the DOC with whom it is mandatory for each
such society to be registered. Several types of PSs could have been included



- 78 -
Annex 3-6
Page 6 of 9
in the pilot programme. However, to keep the project simple, while at the
same time assisting the most neglected group, the poor peasant farmer, it is
proposed that primary societies registered as farming societies be selected
for participation in the pilot programme along with one engaged in agro-
processing and operated by women. Initially, the focus would be on single
purpose farming activities, and even on a single crop. With project progress,
it is envisaged that the group would diversify into other crops and would also
start to integrate vertically.
Prolect Coordination and Implementation
23.         The projert- would be coordinated by DOC through a proposed Project
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation Committee (PCHEC), which would be a
small intra ministerial working committee to be set up at the DOC head office.
Its members would consist of the Director of Cooperatives at the ministerial
level, the Registrar of Cooperatives, and the senior most officer of the
Education and Training Branch of DOC who would also be the Chief Project
Officer and Coordinator (CPOCO). The CPOCO would report directly to the
Registrar of Cooperatives. The specific function of PCMEC would be to follow
the implementation of the project, essentially through Field Reports and to
resolve major problems in implementation as and when they occur.
24.         At the district level, a District Implementation Group (DIG) would
be formed. It would be headed by the District Cooperative Officer (DCO) and
would also include as its members two Cooperative Field Officers (CFO), the
NGO field project officer (NGOPO) and two associated Agricultural Extension
Officers (AEO). The Head/Chief of the village would sit in as an observer.
The DIG would meet regularly with the sole objective of evaluating the
project's progress and implementation. The Progress Reports prepared by the
PS, NGO and DOC would be the basis for the DIG reviews. Field reports will
incorporate important aspects of the individual progress reports and reflect
the decisions of DIG.
Proiect Monitoring and Reporting
25.         The project would be closely monitored by the DOC at the district
level with local consultancy services covering approximately 48 man-months.
The consultants would ensure the regular collection and collation of relevant
data pertaining to key project activities ranging from improvements in
agricultural productivity levels to increases in literacy levels. The DOC
would prepare quarterly progress reports as well as an annual report. In
addition, a mid-term review should be undertaken by DOC. At the completion of
the pilot programme an impact report would be prepared by DOC. The TOR for the
feasibility study, the impact study, consultants' studies and the Cooperative
College are given in the Appendix.
AF4AG
November 1988



- 79 -
Annex 3-6
Page 7 of 9
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Pilot Programme for Strengthening Farmer Cooperatives
Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study
The study would help prepare a pilot programme to assist the
selected cooperative societies to successfully engage in economic activities
that go beyond those which presently constitute their main activity as a means
to exercising independence in their decision-making, and becoming economically
and financially viable. The question that needs to be addressed is whether
cooperative members working together within their respective primary societies
can, by the end of the project, without dependence on the NGO and DOC, be said
to have enhanced and stabilized their financial cash flow situation and
creditworthines. In other words, the potential of these societies to benefit
from the following would need to be assessed: (i) economies of scale resulting
from group procurement of farm inputs and marketing of output; (ii)
strengthened collateral based on group cohesion for obtaining credit from
local formAl rural financial institutions; (iii) a sound record of cost
recovery through meeting, on time, the required repayments for the costs of
inputs and investment credit; (iv) and, the ability, eventually, by
individual members, to obtain loans from their local rural banker, which would
be a local formal sector rural financial institution, on the basis of their
own credit standing.
Terms of Reference for Impact Study
An evaluation of the extent of impact of the pilot programme in
the selected district and surrounding areas in terms of the criteria for
success, established in the text, would be made. The analysis and information
generated by the consultants working on the pilot programme would be used
extensively and would be supplemented by any additional reviews and analyses
needed to arrive at a clear and comprehensive assessment of its effectiveness
and ultimate impact. The critical question that would need to be answered
would be whether the pilot programme could in effect be recommended for
introduction to other Districts and Regions of Ghana as a means to: (i)
promoting the economic and financial viability of cooperatives, particularly,
farmer cooperatives; (ii) encouraging the formation of cooperatives through
demonstration of benefits to individual farmers and rural entrepreneurs as
reflected in stronger and more stable cash flows, and, therefore, their
enhanced creditworthiness; (iii) ensuring that individual cooperative members



- 80 -
Annex 3-6
Page 8 of 9
are exposed to the essential agricultural and cooperative extension education
and advice that would equip them with the basic and necessary skills to
achieving the abcve; and (iv) significantly increase the ability of the target
group to manage their own activities.
Terms of Reference for the Consultants' Studies
The consultants would focus on monitoring and analyzing key
activities related to the target group of cooperatives. Results would form
the basis of assessing the extent to which the criteria established for the
success of the pilot programme have been met. The areas of focus may broadly
be divided into four categories dealing with:
(a)  progressive and measurable trends in, first, the farm cash flow
situation of each individual farmer member, as well as that of each primary
society, resulting from group procurement and marketing over the project
period compared to that prevalent at the start of and in the initial stages of
the project, and, second, cost recovery as measured by the required repayments
being met and increased creditworthines of members as indicated by increases
in the number and size of loans undertaken by farmers;
(b) the extent to which banking activity with formal sector local rural
financial institutions by individual farmer members and by each primary
society increased over the project period, and whether this was sustained5
that is, the number of accounts opened and the number that continued to be
operated, frequency of and familiarity by members with procedures for
operating their financial accounts, the ease in terms of reduced time required
by members to operate the accounts over the project period, the confidence and
independence demonstrated by accountees in planning and managing their
finances, but mainly those relating to farm operations and investments would
need close monitoring;
(c) attitudes towards, and enthusiasm generated for. the adoption of
improved technical packages as shown by increases in purchases of modern farm
inputs and changes in the types of crops cultivated; and
Cd) progress in the education of farmer members in simple farm
management operations, rudimentary financial planning and decision-making, and
basic cooperative extension, through the observed practise in day to day
operations of skills in basic accounting, book-keeping, financial management
and decision-making, banking with formal rural financial institutions,
adhering to cooperative society procedures for holding meetings and recording
minutes etc. would be assessed.



- 81 -
Annex 3-6
Page 9 of 9
Terms of Reference for Review of the Cooperative College
The consultant would undertake a detailed review of the curriculum
with particular emphasis on the existing training programne for cooperative
trainers, (it is the latter that the proposed technical assistance under the
project aims to strengthen), and to suggest modifications. Towards this end,
the following areas would need to be examined:
(a)   the Charter under which the College was originally established;
(b)   design of the curriculum and the extent to which it meets,
firstly, the institution's goals and objectives; and, secondly,
the current objectives of the Government and the Cooperative
sector;
(c)   specific improvements and changes essential to the curriculum
for fulfilling the institution's objective;
(d)   required and actual qualifications of present teaching staff
and the relevance of the latter's responsibilities to the proposed
desired curriculum;
'e) recommended changes in staffing structure that would be
necessitiated by suggested changes in curriculum;
(f)   the adequacy and appropriateness of instruction manuals,
teaching aids and materials for training trainers;
(g)   the existing capacity of the College to institute the suggested
changes; and
(h)   estimation of the type and extent of training, and technical
assistance (if any is called for), required to implement the
revised curriculum.
AF4AG
November 1988



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Proposal for a Rural Finance Policy Analysis Mechanism
Background
1.        Financial policy in Ghana has undergone many changes with struc-
tural adjustment and as a result of experience. Notable developments
include interest rate liberalization and abolition of sectoral lending
quotas for financial institutions, except for agriculture, which is not
rigidly enforced and will be reviewed in February 1989. Another important
decision is that informal financial arrangements should be encouraged. An
important feature of rural finance policy is the promotion of rural unit
banks that are privately owned by members of the communities they serve.
2.        A special concern among those related to financial policy is the
role of finance in rural development. This assumes a special importance
because the population and the economy are largely rural. It is widely
acknowledged in Ghana that rural finance is Important for rural develop-
ment, and that it would be helpful to make rural financial intermediation
more efficient. It is also accepted that "rural finance" is a meaningful
concept, a significant part of the financial system, and a suitable area
for policy formulation. Present centers of interest in rural finance,
other than the rural people actually involved, include the Bank of Ghana,
the Ministry of Finance and Planning, the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Association of Rural Banks, commercial and other large banks to varying
degrees, the Credit Union Association, numerous bilateral and international
donors, and private development organizations. Notably absent is the
academic community, where there appears to be no rural financial market
research activity. These centers of interest have no general forum for
communication, exchange of experience, debate and for participation in
research initiatives.
Proposal for a Rural Finance Policy Analysis Network
3.        Rural Finance policy formulation could be assisted by a mechanism
that would provide a permanent focus on monitoring rural financial perfor-
mance, developing issues and conducting research. Accordingly, it is
proposed to establish under the Project a Rural Finance Research Unit with
BOG. The range of issues of interest to rural finance policy are discussed
below.
Rural Finance Research Issues and Activities
4.        The types of issues that are relevant to rural financial policy
are numerous, including:
-    effective real interest rates;
-    viability of institutions active in rural financial markets;
-    measures to improve loan collection performance;



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 2 of 3
-    entry and exit barriers in rural financial intermediation;
-    economics of branch banking in rural areas;
-    links between rural credit markets and other financial markets;
-    status of and scope for dealer or .rader finance;
-    patterns of cash use and movement in rural areas;
-    activities and norms of informal financial operators;
-    determinants of rural saving, its monetization and its mobiliza-
tion by financial institutions;
-    social aspects of rural finance including gender, ethnic and age
dimensions;
-    financial role of primarily social institutions;
S - monitoring and evaluation of credit projects and guarantee
schemes;
I - impact and effectiveness of credit quotas or targets, to the
extent these characterize projects or policies;
-    promotion of informal financial operators;
-    risk management by lenders; and
-    pace, types and causes of innovation in rural finance.
Additional issues could be taken up as the Research Unit's
activities progress.
5.        The Unit would conduct research in a variety of ways, ranging
from literature searches and desk reviews through minor field studies to
major research projects. It would undertake some of these using only its
own staff, some would require the collaboration of academic researchers
from Ghana and abroad working with field enumerators engaged for fixed
periods of time, and others would require the specialization found in
consulting firms in Ghana and abroad that would serve as contractors for
the Unit.
6.        The Unit's ability to interact effectively with and to generate
interest among the academic community is important because the Unit can
benefit from the disciplinary and methodological skills of academic
researchers, and because the entire network proposed here is designed to
encourage research and scrutiny of rural finance. However, certain types
of studies might not be appropriate for academic collaboration, such as
reviews that would examine the situation of specific categories of Rural
Banks, for example. The confidentiality of information specific to a bank
would have to be respected, which conflicts with academic norms. Likewise,
publication of research results would not name specific institutions
without their permission. Publication of aggregates of institution-
specific confidential data would generally not pose this type of problem.
7.        Research tasks undertaken by the Unit on behalf of others, such
as a study of fisheries finance for the Ministry of Agriculture, for
example, could be paid for by the body commissioning the work. While every
effort would be made to centralize official rural financial market research
Jn the Unit, the Unit would not have a monopoly in this respect or any
control over research undertaken by others. The Unit would exist simply to
facilitate the generation and dissemination of information about rural
finance to and form every quarter.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-7
Page 3 of 3
Prolect Funding
8.        The Research Unit would be formed and its work program funded
under the Project. Technical assistance funds would be available upon the
following steps being taken:
(a) completion of administrative arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
the location and functioning of the Unit within the Bank of
Ghana;
(b) provision of office space for the Unit; and
(c) appointment of a Research Unit Head having qualifications
acceptable to the IDA.
Funds provided under the Project would finance acquisition of
books and other literature for a rural finance reference library, purchase
of office equipment, including word processing and data analysis capacity,
and purchase of a vehicle. The Project would also contribute to the Unit's
operating expenses.
AF4AG
March 1989



- 85 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Rural Banks Restructuring Advisor
Reporting to the Head of RFUs-
-    Coordinate the Rural Banks restructuring program activities
generally;
-    Plan and supervise of the restructuring Program envisaged for the
20 RBs for which special audit investigations are completed;
-    Plan and coordinate the special audit studies envisaged for the
remaining 100 RBst
-    Review and comment on the future U study reports to be submitted
by consultant;
-    Assist in the planniAg and execution of accepted restructuring
recommendations in the studies completed during his tenure;
-    Review and recommend effective Organization and Methods;
Management Information Systems; Internal Controls; Financial
Control and Funds Management Systems;
-    Simplification of accounting, records and procedures;
-    Standardization of documents for designing, printing and supply
to all RUs;
-    Training of UB staff and Board on related matters.



-86 -                     Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 3
Rural Finance Advisor
Reporting to the Head of RFD, to be the lead advisor to BOG management on
all aspects of rural finance strategy. The Advisor vould be responsible
fors
(i) assisting the BOG to develop a rural financial intermediation
strategy and action program;
(ii) assisting banks to improve their rural credit delivery mechanisms
and to implement effective deposit mobilization programs; and
(iii) help develop an applied rural finance policy research capacity in
BOG (indicative themes are outlined in Annex 3-7).



- 87 -
Annex 3-8
Page 3 of 3
Rural Banks Inspection Advisor
Reporting to the chief of the BOG Examination Divisions
-    Prepare detailed guidelines for BOG's prudential inspection of
RBs, baseed on the banking laws in force, and the recommendations
in the ongoing procedure study by Deloitte Haskins & Sells;
-    Prepare a checklist for periodical RB inspections to be carried
out;
-    Prepare a simplified reporting format for highlighting critical
factors;
-    Prepare detailed work programs for special inspections warranted
in emergency situations;
-    Conduct briefings for prudential inspection teams prior to
departure on field visits;
-    Recommend follow-up action and feedback on inspection findings;
-    Prepare an allocation scheme for the experienced officers in RB
Inspection Division, assigning oveall responsibility for certain
number of RBs to ensure some continuity and institutional memory;
-    Prepare a program for review and follow-up of periodical returns
and reports from Us, and their annual external audit reports;
-    Prepare and implement a filing and information system to
facilitate collection. analysis and ready retrieval of vital
information and data.



- 88 -
Annex 3-9
Table 1
GIIANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUNARY      /
ICEDIS '0001                                      tlUS$ 1000)
I Total                                     S Total
I Foreign  Base                             I Foreign  Base
Local     Foreign     Total      Exchange   Costs    local  Foreign Total   Exchange   Costs
St==: :s:::=  =====: ::==:  =====:::tt.::: ::=====  ====::,::== z::s::s                                  
A. INSTITUTION BUILDING
1. RESTRUCTURING RURAL BAK        326,482.5   124. 167. 5   450,650.0        28      22  1. 305.9   496.7 1.802. 6        28      22
2. ASSOCIATION OF RURAL BANKS       78. 712.5   267. 137.5  345,850.0        77       17    314.9 1. 068.6 1 383.4        77      I7
3. CREDIT UlIONS ASSOCIATION        41.482.0   467,503.0   508,985.0         9E      25    165.9 1 870.0 2.035.9          92      25
4. RURAL CREDIT APPRAISAL          112.610.0    70.890.    183. 500.0        39        9    450.4   283.6   734.0         39       9
6. RURAL BAKS EXANINATION           61.763.8   157011.3   218.775.0         72       11   247.1   62& 0   875.1          72       II
S. RURAL COOPERATIVES                9,448.0    82.282.0    9t.730.0         90        4     37.8  329.1   366.9          90       4
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING        630.498.8 1;;68.991.3 1.799.490.0         65       88  2.522.0 4 676.0 7. 198.0        65      88
B. RURAL FINANCE UNIT                  73S285.0   172,315.0   245.600.0         70       12   293.1   689.3   982.4          70       12
total BASELINE COSTS                    703.783 8 1.341.306.3 2,045.090.0         66      100  2.815.1 5.365.2 8,180.4         66     1OO
Physical Contingencies                 7.543.6    34,203.9    41.747 5         82       2      30.2   136.8   167.0         82       2
Prsce Contingencies                   99. 547. 7   205,426.9   304,974.5       67       15    198. 6   409.    607. 7       67       7
*t1wal PROJECI COSTS                    810.875.0 1.580.937.0 2,391.812.0         66      117  3.043.9 5.911.1 8,955.0         66     t09
Docejier 16. 1988 15:46
1/  Excluding the Line of Credit Component.



- 89 -
Annex 3-9
Table 2
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Conponents by Year 1/
ICEDIS '000)
Base Costs                      Total
89/90      90/91     91/92        CEDIS   1US$ ;000;
A. INSTITUtION BUILDING
I. RESTRUCTURING RURAt BAS           339. 050. 0  63. 300.0  48. 300. 0    450. 650.0    1.802. 6
2. AssOCIATION OF RURAL BANKS        126.790.0 109.680.0 109.380.0    345.850.0    1.383.4
3. CREDIT UNIONS ASSOCIATION         242. 895.0 131. 545.0 134. 545.0    508. 985.0    2.035.9
4. RURAL CREDIT APPRAISAt             42. 700. 0  61. 800.0  79. 000. 0    183. 500.0  734.0
5. RURAL BANKS EXAMINATION            90.625.0  91. 150.0  37.000.0    218.775.0       875.1
6. RURAL COOPERATIVES                 35.140.0  3A 990.0  17. 600.0     91. 730.0      366.9
Sub-Total INSTITUTION BUILDING          877,200.0 496, 465.0 425.825.0  1,799.490.0    7.198.0
8. RURAL FINANCE UNIT                   101. 600.0  89. 500.0  54. 500.0    245. 600.0    982.4
Total BASELINE COSTS                      978. 800.0 585, 965.0 480. 325.0  2.045.090.0    8.180.4
Physical Cont ingercies                 17. 090.5  13. 192.0  11.465. 0   41. 747.5      167.0
Price Contingencies                     76. 244.8 101. 925.9 126. 803.9    304 974.5     607. 7
* itl.J Cl COStS                 1. 072. 135. 3 701. 082.9 618. 593. 9  2. 391. 812. 0    8. 955. 0
,=    ==  =  :===~ _ -   ::=:==::==:::::: ::::::==:::
15. 521. 5  18. 433.9  20. 669.6  54, 625. 0    202. 6
.. ^.tJn lEchange                     653.709.7 511. 145.7 416. 08'. 6  1.580,937.0    S.911. 1
Decaelber 16. 1988 15: 46
1/ Excluding the Line of Credit Component.



_90 -
Annex 3-9
Table 3
GrHAIA
RURAL FINANCE PROUECT
Suimary Accounts by Year  1/
ICEOIS '000)
Base Costs                    Foreign Exchange
89/90      90/91     91/92      Total       7     Amount
1. INVEStNENT COSTS
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    350.450.0 365.925.0 284.425.0 1 000.800.0  71.1  711 10
B. STUDIES                                  32, 875.0  IS. 000.0  26. 250.0    74, 125.0  67.9    50-.
C. TRAINING                                 27. 170.0  36. 170.0  34. 000.0    97. 340.0  41.5    40.5,
0. SPECIAL FUNDS                           287. 500.0         -         -  287, 500.0  13.0   37. 50O.
E. EQUIPIEN1                                80.52S.0  36.400.0  IS.O00.    131.925.0  95.0   125 328.8
F. VEHICLES                                IOS, 900.0  36. 950.0  21,000. 0   167. 850.0  95.0   159. 457.5
G. UNALLOCATED                               3. 000.0         -         -     3.000. 0  95.      2.850. 0
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                        891. 420. 0 490. 445. 0 380. 675.0 1. 762. 540.0  64.0 1, 127. 446. 3
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A  SAIARIES AND ALLOMIANCES                55.400.0  56. 000.0  56.000.0   167 400.0  80.7   135. 150.0
H  OPiRAIION AND IAINTENANCE                8.800.0   8.800.0   8.800.0    26.400.0  50.0    13,200.0
SluICIE OPERAIION ANO MAINTENANCE       23. 180.0  30.720.0  34.850.0    88. 750.0  73.8    65. 510.0
i *I I,1UNRNI COSIS                        87. 380.0  95. 520.0  99. 650.0   282. 550.0  75.7   213. 860.0
|otal BASELINE COSTS                           978, 800. 0 585. 965. 0 480. 325.0 2.045. 090. 0  65.6 1. 341.306.3
Physical Contingencies                       17.090.5  13. 192.0  11.465.0    41,747.5  81.9    34.203.9
Price Contingencies                          76. 244.8 101. 925.9 126. 803. 9   304,974.5  67.4   205. 426.9
Total PROJECT COSIS                          1.072.135.3 701.082.9 618.593.9 2.391,812.0  66.1 1.580.937.0
===::::::: :::==::  :=:==:: ===:::=   -== ==::========
Taxes                                        15. 521.5  18. 433.9  20.669. 6    54,625.0   0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                            653.709.7 511. 145.7 416.081.6 1.580,937.0   0.0          0.0
O0temeer 16. 1988  15: 46
1/ Excluding the Line of Credit Component.



GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROIECT
Suiry Account by Project Caoporent 1/
tCEDIS '0001
INSTITIIUIZN BUILDING                                                                    Physical
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- -  Contin  acies
RESTRUCTURING  ASSOCIATION O  CREDIT UNIONS  RURAL CREDIT  RURkAt SAS       RURAt       RURALt FINACE               -------------
RURAL BANNS    RURAL BSAIS     ASSOCIATION    APPRAISAL    EUIINATION  CODPERATIVES         UNIT         Total       S    hwt
,tt .,.: .t : .= =   t:a,:tt..   usI. ss::sss  ;s,fl. ........t::.  . ....  : ....   :     ::.......  ..::..... ::::   :::,:.
1. INVESIIENT COSTS
A. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE                      184.000.0       180,000.0      220 OO. 0      105, s0o..0    l0000.0      71.000.0       126,000.0  ,000.800.0   0.0       0.0
I. STUDIES                                                           -       26 ,Z5. 0             -            -       2.500.0        45.000.0     74. 125.0   0.0      0.0
C. TRAINING                                          -        52. 200.        7 500.0 o-                 37.00.0           140.0              -     97.340.0   0.0      0.0
0. SPECIAL FUNDS                             250.000.0               -       37. 500.0             -            -              -              -   287. 00.0   0.0       0.0
E. EOUIPiENT                                   5.000,.        62. iO0.0      1l.000.0                    21.M62.0         300.0        27.500.0    I31. 925.0  10.0 1S,392.5
F. VHIttClES                                   6. 20. 0        0. 150.       22. 600.0      56, 000. 0   31,250.0       6,600.0        25.000.0    16o7. Ao. a   0.0    0.0
G. MALLDOCAIED                                       -               -               -             -            -       3.000.0               -      3.000.0 o 0.0    300.0
------ ------ .......... .... - - - - - - - - - - - - -- .......... :  .. .. ........  -- - - - - - . - - - - -    - - - - --
Total INMESTHENT COSTS                          445,250.0       314. 850.0     32, 225. 0     161. 8t0. 0    200. 375.0   67. 540.0      223. 500.0  1,7M210.0   0.8 131492.5
II. RECURRENI COSTS
A. SALARIES UND AtLtC  CES                          -         3.600.0       159.000.0             -            -              -        4. 800.0    I7,40.0  10.0 16,740.0
6. OPERATION AMD NAINTENUUCE                  1.500.0        15.000.0        6.750.o0                    -                110.0        3,000.0     26.400.0  10.0  2,640.0
C. VEHICtE OPERATION AND NAINTElNACE          3.900.0        12.400.0       14.010.0       21,700.0     11,400.0       4,040.0        14,300.0     W.0750.0  10.0  6,875.0
Total RECRMRENT COSTS                             5,400.0        31,000. 0      179,760.0      21,700.0 Io .400. 0         4.190.0        22, 100.     282. 550. 0  10.0 28. 2. 0
total BASELINE COStS                             450.650.0       341.810.0      108,91.o0    183,500.0    218.775.0        21.730.0       241.600.0  2.045.090.0   2.0 41.147.S
PhyicaI Contiqgncies                            1.040.0         9.350.0        19.475.0      2t170.0       4.002.5          749.0        4.90.0      41.747.1   0.0      0.0
Price Contingsc.s                              49. 383. 6      5L 011. 0      7 528. 3       34.778 4     32,596. 7      13,920.6       37,155.9    304,974.5   2.1  6,492.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                             50.073.6        413.211,0      6068989.3    220,;4484    255.374.2    106.399.6          268 ,31.9 2i3s1.812.0   2.04 823s.8
tfla.  .... a..  . a.s.........;  aa....aI....s ..   ....... a. ...s..   . ....s.... a..   ... ta..   . - a .... s.....l .s..   -                            a
TM                                              1,040.8         5.s78. 8      34.628 9        4. 29.5      3.584.9         806 2         4, 28. 9    51.625.0   9.1  4. 9M.. 2
fe.ien Eudkage                                142. 49. 4      318. 106.1     55. 53.2       61.253.1    183.063.5      95. 340.7      20. 140. 1 1,150.831.0   2. S 39,416.3                         4
kc"ar 16. 1986  I1:46
1/ Excluding the Line of Credit Component.
I,
M



-92-
Annex 3-10
GHANA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IDA Credit
Disbursement            Cumulative
Period Ending        During Semester          Disbursement
USS-------Us$ Million------------
December 31, 1989                 0.6                    0.6
June 30, 1990                1.0                     1.6
December 31, 1990                 2.0                    3.6
June 30, 1991                 4.0                    7.6
December 31, 1991                 4.5                   12.1
June 30, 1992                 2.5                   14.6
December 31, 1992                 5.0                   19.6
June 30, 1993                  .4                   20.0
AF4AG
December 1988



- 93 -
Annex 4-1
GHANA
Rural Finance Proiect
Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation
Activity                                                Timing
by Jun by Dec by Jun by Dec by Jun by Dec
30. 89  31. 89  30. 90  31. 90  30. 91  31. 91
Rural Finance Department
- Recruit head before Board
Presentation (May 16, 1989)
- Recruit Rural Finance
Advisor                           X
- Prepare operational
procedures                       X
- Twinning Arrangements                               X
- Complete Staff Dev. Plan                   X
RB Restructuring Program
- Recruited RB Restr. Advisor        X
- Establish Recapitalization
Fund                             X
- Hire Consultants                    X                X               X
- Completed RB Review (cum)          20     35        50    65        80
- Completed Resr. Plans (cum)        20     20        35    50        65     80
Strenathenina Credit AvDraisal
- For RBs select
firmslindividuals                X
- For national banks recruit
credit officers (cum)                  12       24    36        54    72
RB Examination
- Recruit Advisor (by 9130/89)               X
- Complete Transformation of                 X
RBD
- Finalize Staff Training                    X
Program
- Representation on remaining               100O
RB Boards



- 94 -
Strengthening ARB
- Review ARB Work Plan               X
- Submit ARB Work Plan to IDA
before Sept. 30, 1989
- Recruit Training Specialist        X
- Recruit Financial Management Sp. X
- Initiate Training Programs                  X
Credit Union Component (see Appendix in Annex 3-5)
Line of Credit Commitments             O      lO    302    50      752    1002



- 95 -
Annex 5
RURAL FINANCE PROJET
List of Documents Available on the Proiect File
WORKING PAPERS (lPs)
WP No. 1       Investment Activity Models
WP No. 2       Cost Tables
VP No. 3       Credit Union Development in Ghana
'WP No. 4      Restructuring of Rural Banks
VP No. 5       Strengthening Farmer Cooperatives
OTHER DOCUMENTS
1.        Rural Finance in Ghana, by GTZ, September 1988.
2.        Ghana:  Rural Finance Study in Ghana, by Technoserve, Inc.,
August 1988.
3.        Special Audit Reports on 14 ns by various accounting firms



i
MAP SECTION



I BRD 151 16R;
BURKINA  FASO                                                        ..
-11 1 --_-* .--- -  *-- -'--F-Oj <TH ;}G H A N A
i  s}UPPER                                             RAINFALL AND
UPPER  WEST                 EAST    /                    <,                ECOLOGICAL ZONES
\  / REGION                         /; t \ HIGH FORESI ZONE
RE   ION                                                                        EC'u  /  [ ii Ecuotoruil Rain Forest
,, \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Tronsition Zone
Moist Sernm deciduous
0Nasio                      (             Forest
to.                O W                                                                                  SAVANNAH ZONE
Guinea Savannah
_t_ /\Woodland
A.                                                                                    1         m     Sudan Savannah
i-I                (I ~~~~3     '---~~~ Woodland
Coastal Thicket and
\ N O R TH E R N           R E G I O N                                  Grossldond
Tamale                               *    Mongroves
0Domono                        .            (     5         .*-RiRanfall (mm)
r k- oDomongo                           \ ,  f                  .-P - Rivers
'9,        \_               x _ ._  ..........               ,/,.            \'*       ,7            _. _  Region Boundaries
-- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1Internotionol
Boundaries
1 COTE                                                              'Sa ,; g-"-    B   ..    .
D'IVOIRE                  Bo                                        S I QO 7z
/   /            /t           '    o~~~~~~~Atebubu  <     <        Z       s             
BRONG( AHAFO  -REGION 
iJ.            A (  RE      IO N T I
/1
Axim       6      okrd               0      20 403  60  aoloM-            GUINA/~y                 NIGERIAe
RE       N                                      16FEBRUARY 1987



IBRD 18395R2
3°                         2°                          °o                                                                                  2
BURKINA   FASO                                                                                               GHANA
U P E MTSOIL SUITABILITY FOR
so -uQ a  UPzRg  g jCROP PRODUCTION
(1  UP EP WEST
W  HIGH RAINFALL FOREST
1>K_                                          8 s- -%r> <f t< 48 '8i 41 V FOOD CROPS Bcanan  C frr,
INDUSTRIAL CROPS
-)P                     ~~~~~~~0 lpalm, Rdbber
ev,                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXPORT CROPS
Blolck Pepper
I0,             -  0                                                                                                    SEAM-DECIDUOUS FORESTN1
¾,  1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                          - ~~~~~~~FOOD CROPS  Mo in Cc-r%o'
'00                                   Pl~~~~~~~~~~olor n Cacoyom  Fr~ 
'>  >/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r;~~~~~~~ ~INDUSTRIAL CROPS
Ol1polm. Rubber
EXPORT CROPS
K'                AR<I<                                     *'                                           = Cocoa. Coffee
T7-   TRANSITIONAL ZONE
a"                                                                0                            COASTAL SAVANNAH
FOOD CROPS Maize, So'gh'.-
Aflxim9s   Tkoradi                                                         o   20A 4l8et, Cossoo. Yor
Gu/f                                                           Groundnut Coopeoi  Ma.,ng
-90                    ,'.\-                                                                                             INDUSTRIAL CROPS
4/ rt  \r"                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cotton, Tobaicco, Kenaf
a,,                       /                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COASTAL SAVANNAH
F"       - o       _ ne   rr FOOD CROPS R ce
COTE                 " n'                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDUSTRIAl CROPS
COTE                                                                                            Sugorcone~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pr.o optrs>IWB  cer  xu  rn   ooalo  r  
D'-    VQ-RE                 ,         C2                                                   __ mgINTERIOR SAVANNAH
I  ~~~~~                                         ____      I  ,>)~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  -AFOOD CROPS Sorghum, M lIet,
Cossovo. Yam, Groundnut.
rl                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Cowpeo Mango
80                                                                                                                        Cotton, Tobacco, Kenaf   W' -
j  -                                                                                      INTERIOR SAVANNAH
bu                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pasture
COASTAL STRIP
se                  >~~~~~~~ EXPORT CROPS: Coconut
___VALLEY BOTTrOM
FOOD CROPS n,ce
m-   FOREST RESERVE/GAME RESERVE
-  L,J                   -  - -  ~~~~~~Reg on Boundor-es
Internal anal Bounoor.es
C?                      /          #CCRA~
r   ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l    ,   p4                                                   0MLS50
Aiim           ~~~Takoradi                                               0 2 40 60  80 KILOMETERS
Gulf          of           Guinea                                               owa   Wi  m"wV ",,'M            flV.Wmkaf VWNWl5,6
F,sx covpawto Te *nalto  soi  Se Oa,e *"- orW -V dor Sa 
WM.u*. or t U *;pi The bIAw Baa aid v" htanbawi Furnc Coairboo "n 4rArtw
JANUARY 1941



BURKINA FASO                                                                                      F
A                                                                                                        Distributin   f T
J!llapa                                                       Awwlrram.
-Sk    \                                                               {                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~GHANA
\  /   -                                                              (               ~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL FINANCE
V                                                                J                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT
Tuna                                                                                                    Distribution of
Rural Banks
*     Bank Lo-aLtos
A     T. bi Opened Shortly
0         SX    t<\_                                             _               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* National Capotal
A   h  <     + - >   \  02                                          9                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rrnjon Bound acef
COTE  \          '          2                                 R          \                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Internoturmal Boundaries
COTE
D'IVOIRE
/5~~~~~~              Kml~~~ICnampa                     S           h       Wr 
urno  Snikwa            l,f      ¾ zr;
Ahnnkro   6  *       ~Aku-rnog0                                                        -d
baSabso        Nkotanaa
0                                                             _________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~01~11
|    Nsuatrn           afranch    *g                                                                          0<  20  on  Su   no  ciannttilts
t   @                          S~~~~~~~~~ekyw-oasi                                X $ [kr
/~ ~ ~ ~B- Otbr/s                                  K.---aKgSr                     !    - ' )Kkdatm
WomB.          S~~~~~~~~0K .                                     .
Niutrunu   *            O,mn0               ofo se  K                                           Wdd  
SY2metws * *O  Nyin;hinT               e*-    Jjlf S  f                            /Hew   > h TOGO
\-                                0Wius1krom   jakyi  untani sse *      fsepf2 re     > <             ;t I ()E T. iay
*t    Akmue                ntk                  A t \
S. Sak          Nahi       0   *k*
Boyoict   F.t4nkun^#  *   Af- ans             ,
AsaW.  O.           Uah      F                     Ka-
.untenuvo    Achenenocw        To.                                                                                                                         7,
N.                                      '
8                                                                                                                                     S                  l;~~~~~~~
AntS    o
0~~~~~~~C  
WESTERN      A*                         - .,  
likofto ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~          At-                         (~
*  S~~~~~~~L-l
GULF OF GUINEA                                                                       d
nra~~~~



