Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2040 GH
                      (Rural Finance Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 28, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2040 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July  28,  1989,  between  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  Parts A through F of the  Project will be carried out by
the Bank of Ghana  (BOG)  with  the  Borrower's assistance, and as
part of such assistance, the  Borrower  will make available to BOG
part of the proceeds of the  Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and BOG;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth  in  Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General  Conditions)  constitute  an  integral  part  of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BOG" means the Bank  of  Ghana, established pursuant to
the Bank of Ghana Act;
     (b)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and BOG, of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (c)  "Subsidiary Administration  Agreement"  means the agree-
ment to be entered into  between  the Borrower and BOG pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term includes all schedules supple-
mental to the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
     (d)  "Bank of Ghana Act"  means  the  Bank of Ghana Act, 1963
(Act 182), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (e)  "Participation  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  to be
entered into between BOG and each Participating Financial Institu-
tion pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
     (f)  "Sub-loan Agreement" means  the  agreement to be entered
into by a  Participating  Financial  Institution and an Investment
Enterprise  under  which  a  Participating  Financial  Institution
agrees to provide a Sub-loan for an Investment Project;
     (g)  "Investment  Enterprise"   means   an  enterprise  which
operates in the rural sector,  other than in real estate, industry
and speculative trade, and which  enters into a Sub-loan Agreement
with  Participating  Financial   Institutions  for  an  Investment
Project;
     (h)  "PFI"  or  "Participating  Financial  Institution" means
each rural bank, commercial  bank,  merchant bank, or any develop-
ment bank or specialized financial institution which shall for the
purpose of the Project  be  designated  by  BOG as a Participating
Financial Institution;
     (i)  "Sub-loan" means a loan, made or proposed to be made, by
a PFI to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of
the equivalent of the  proceeds  of  the  Credit provided to it by
BOG;
     (j)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a  free-limit  Sub-loan  pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
     (k)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (l)  "Susu Groups" means the informal savings associations;
Page  3
     (m)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (n)  "RFD" means the Rural  Finance Department established by
BOG;
     (o)  "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower; and
     (p)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated  October 1, 1987, and October 14,
1987, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to  be paid) by BOG on account
of withdrawals made by  an  Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Investment Project in  respect  of  which  the withdrawal from the
Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services  required for Parts B through G of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly  notify  the  Borrower  and BOG of such
later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
Page  4
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing July  15,  1999,  and  ending  January  15,  2029. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
January 15, 2009,  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of  the  Association and after due con-
sideration by them of  the  development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  BOG  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower for the purposes  of  taking  any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under  the  provisions  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of  the General Conditions with respect to
Parts A through F of the Project.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end:  (i)  shall  carry  out Part G of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  financial  and  administrative  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required  for  Part  G  of  the  Project; and (ii)
Page  5
without any  limitation  or  restriction  upon  any  of  its other
obligations under this Agreement,  shall  cause  BOG to perform in
accordance with the provisions  of  the  Project Agreement all the
obligations of BOG therein set  forth,  shall take and cause to be
taken all action,  including  the  provision of funds, facilities,
services and other  resources  necessary  or appropriate to enable
BOG to perform such obligations,  and  shall not take or permit to
be taken any action  which  would  prevent  or interfere with such
performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, out  of  the proceeds of the Credit,
make available to BOG  an  amount  not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 14,840,000 under  a  subsidiary  administration agreement (the
Subsidiary Administration Agreement)  to  be  entered into between
the Borrower and BOG under  terms  and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association  and which shall include that the
Borrower bears the foreign exchange risk.
     (c)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Administration Agreement in such  manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower  and  the  Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the  Credit,  and  except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the  Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement  or any provision
thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
     (a)  procurement  of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services
required for Part G of the  Project  and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and
     (b)  procurement  of  the  goods  and  consultants'  services
required for Parts B through F  of  the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the  Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of Parts A through
F of the Project shall be  carried  out by BOG pursuant to Section
2.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall  cause  the Association of
Rural Banks to  submit,  not  later  than  September 30, 1989, and
September 30,  1990,  respectively,  to  the  Association  for its
review and comments  its  annual  work  program  for the following
year.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall  implement, not later than
December 31, 1990, the recommendations of the studies under Part D
of the Project acceptable to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Part  G  of  the Project of the depart-
ments or agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible for carrying out
Part G of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
Page  6
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BOG shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  BOG  will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Bank of  Ghana  Act  shall  have  been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or  waived  so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or  financial condition of BOG or its
ability to carry out the Project  or to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BOG or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower and BOG; and
     (b)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph   (c)  or  (d)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been entered
into by the Borrower and BOG  pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
     (b)  BOG has submitted  to  the Association RFD's operational
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
     (c)  BOG has signed  Participation  Agreements  with at least
two PFIs pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
     (d)  BOG has employed  a  rural  finance  adviser and a rural
banks restructuring adviser in  accordance with the provisions set
forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement;
     (e)  BOG has submitted  to  the Association the restructuring
plans for the Agricultural Development Bank and twenty rural banks
satisfactory to the Association;
     (f)  the  Borrower  has  issued  a  statement,  in  form  and
substance satisfactory to the Association,  that it will provide a
deposit guarantee up to a limit of Cedis 100,000 per depositor for
rural bank depositors whose outstanding  claims cannot be met by a
particular bank during the restructuring thereof; and
     (g)  the   Borrower   has    established   the   Rural   Bank
Recapitalization  Fund  in  BOG  with  an  initial  sum  in  Cedis
equivalent to $300,000.
     Section 6.02. The following  are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section  12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by BOG, and  is  legally  binding  upon BOG in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the  Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by,  and  is legally binding upon, the
Borrower and BOG in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated  as  representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  8
     For the Borrower:
           PNDC Secretary for Finance and
              Economic Planning
           Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
           P.O. Box M 40
           Accra, Ghana
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                ECONOMICON                     2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
                                            Rapifax
                                               667069
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                        By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans                11,350,000         80%
Page  9
(2)  Consultants'              2,200,000         100%
     services and
     training
(3)  Equipment and               610,000         100% of foreign
     vehicles                                    expenditures and
                                                 90% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  RFD's operating             230,000         100% through
     costs                                       June 30, 1990,
                                                 60% through
                                                 June 30, 1991
                                                 and 30% through
                                                 June 30, 1992
(5)  Refunding of                410,000         Amount due
     Project                                     pursuant to
     Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
     Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated                 400,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              15,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "operating  costs"  means  the office expenses
incurred for rent, utilities, transportation and supplies.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of a  Sub-loan  unless  the Sub-loan has been
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and condi-
tions set forth or referred to in Schedule 2 to the Project Agree-
ment; and
     (b)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist in financing
such private productive  activities,  facilities  and resources in
the rural sector of the  Republic  of  Ghana as will contribute to
the economic and social development  of the country; (b) to imple-
ment a financial restructuring program for rural banks; and (c) to
improve  the  policy  and   institutional  support  framework  for
mobilizing financial resources in the rural sector.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Financing, through  BOG  and  PFIs,  of  specific development
projects in  agriculture,  livestock,  fisheries,  artisanal agro-
processing and input supplies through credits to farmers and rural
Page  10
enterprises.
Part B:
     Strengthening of the  technical  and operational capabilities
of the Rural Finance Department  in BOG through the acquisition of
office and computer equipment and vehicles.
Part C:
     Restructuring  of   rural   banks   and   operation   of  the
recapitalization fund established in BOG.
Part D:
1.   Support  of  the  Association   of  Rural  Banks,  the  Ghana
Cooperative Credit Union Association  and  the Susu Groups through
the acquisition of  equipment  and  vehicles  and the provision of
training.
2.   Review of  the  appropriateness  of  cooperatives  and credit
union laws and regulations, and a baseline survey of the financial
status of credit unions and the Susu Groups.
Part E:
     Improvements  of   the   capabilities   of  the  Agricultural
Development Bank,  rural  banks  and  other  PFIs  to appraise and
manage rural credits.
Part F:
     Strengthening of  BOG's  capacity  to  carry  out rural banks
examinations.
Part G:
     Pilot program for enhancing the role of rural cooperatives in
marketing inputs, services and outputs.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
              Modifications of the General Conditions
     For purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
               "15. The term  'Project  Agreement' has the meaning
          set forth  in  paragraph  (b)  of  Section  1.02  of the
          Development Credit Agreement."
     (3)  The  words  "the  Association  may,  by  notice  to  the
Borrower, terminate the right of  the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon  the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be  cancelled"  set forth at the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
               "or (e) by  the  date  specified in sub-paragraph 2
          (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, the Associa-
          tion shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit: (i)
          have  received  no  applications  or  requests permitted
          under sub-paragraphs (a)  or  (b)  of said paragraph; or
          (ii) have denied any  such applications or requests, the
Page  11
          Association may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, terminate
          the right to submit such applications or approvals or to
          make withdrawals from  the  Credit  Account, as the case
          may be, with respect  to  such  amount or portion of the
          Credit.  Upon the giving  of such notice, such amount or
          portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  Procurement
     Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part G of the
Project, the Borrower  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  12
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
and to be financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time  to  the  eligible Categories in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, provided, however,
that  notwithstanding  the  provisions   of  paragraph  1  (b)  of
Schedule 2 to the Project  Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  free-limit Sub-loans may be
made out of the Special  Account before the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures
only  if  the   Association   shall  subsequently  authorize  such
withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,500,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
Page  13
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories  less  the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered  into  by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02  of  the  General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association:  (A)  provide  such  additional  evidence  as the
Association may request; or  (B)  deposit into the Special Account
(or,  if  the  Association   shall   so  request,  refund  to  the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so  eligible  or  justified.    Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
