Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2040 GH
                      (Rural Finance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                           BANK OF GHANA
                        Dated July 28, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2040 GH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  July  28,  1989,  between the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANK OF GHANA (BOG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  fifteen million two
hundred thousand Special Drawing  Rights  (SDR 15,200,000), on the
terms  and  conditions  set   forth   in  the  Development  Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BOG agrees to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by a subsidiary  administration  agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower  and  BOG (the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement), part of the proceeds  of the credit provided for under
the Development Credit Agreement will  be made available to BOG on
terms and conditions  set  forth  in the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS BOG, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
     Section 2.01. BOG declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement  and,  to  this  end,  shall,  through  the Rural
Finance Department, carry out or  cause  to be carried out Parts A
through F of the Project with  due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate  administrative, financial, technical,
management and  environmental  practices,  and  shall  provide, or
cause to be provided,  promptly  as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Parts A through F of the
Project.
     Section 2.02. For the purpose  of  carrying out Part A of the
Project, BOG shall provide  to  PFIs  the equivalent of the Credit
allocated to Part A of  the Project under participation agreements
(the Participation Agreements) to be  entered into between BOG and
each  PFI,  under  terms  and  conditions  which  shall  have been
approved by the  Association  and  which  shall  include those set
forth in Schedules 1 and 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) BOG undertakes  that Sub-loans will be made
in accordance with the procedures  and on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement.
     (b)  BOG  shall  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and  of  BOG;  (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and  the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section  2.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts B through F of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. BOG shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03 through 9.08  of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use  of  goods  and  services,  plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance  and land acquisition) in respect
of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  BOG  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under  the  Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement.  Except  as the
Association shall otherwise agree, BOG shall not take or concur in
any action which  would  have  the  effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving  the  Subsidiary Administration Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.07.  (a)  BOG  shall,  together  with the Borrower,
review with the Association, at least once every year, progress in
carrying out the Project, with a view to determining and effecting
such changes as may be required to ensure the successful implemen-
tation of the Project,  including  any  adjustment required in the
Page  3
onlending terms and conditions. To  that end, BOG shall furnish to
the Borrower and the Association a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Project, in  such  detail and at such times as
the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  BOG and the Association  shall,  not later than December
31, 1990, carry out a mid-term  review on the progress achieved in
implementing the Project. For  this  purpose, BOG shall furnish to
the Association a report in  such  detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
     (c)  BOG  shall  promptly   inform   the   Borrower  and  the
Association of  any  condition  which  interferes  or threatens to
interfere with the progress of  the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of  the  Credit,  or  the  performance  by BOG of its
obligations  under  this   Agreement   and  under  the  Subsidiary
Administration Agreement.
     Section 2.08. BOG shall, not later than September 30, 1989:
     (a)  abolish the ceilings of  Cedis  25,000 and Cedis 125,000
on shareholdings  in  rural  banks  by  individuals and companies,
respectively; and
     (b)  limit the shareholdings  in  a  particular rural bank by
individuals  and  companies  to   not   more   than  5%  and  10%,
respectively, of the share capital.
     Section 2.09. BOG shall:  (a)  ensure that, upon commencement
of the restructuring, the  affected  rural banks assign their non-
performing  loans  to   special   collection   accounts  and  make
appropriate provisions for bad and doubtful loans; and
     (b)  not later  than  September  30,  1989:  (i)  abolish the
sectoral quotas imposed on rural banks' lending operations, except
that rural banks shall be required  to  lend at least 20% of their
funds, available for lending, for primary agricultural production;
and (ii)  exclude  from  credit  ceilings  all  lending under this
Project.
     Section 2.10. In  order  to  assist  BOG  in carrying out the
diagnostic studies of  rural  banks  in  1990  and 1991, BOG shall
award the contracts for the  consulting  firms to be employed pur-
suant to the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment not later than September 30 in the preceding year.
     Section  2.11.  BOG   shall   prepare   and  furnish  to  the
Association, not later  than  September  30,  1989, a shortlist of
consulting  firms  which  shall   assist  BOG  in  providing  loan
appraisal services to rural banks.
     Section 2.12. BOG shall carry  out a Bank Examination of each
rural bank at least once a year.
     Section 2.13. BOG shall nominate, not later than December 31,
1989, its representatives on  the  boards  of rural banks in which
BOG is so far not represented.
     Section 2.14. BOG, through RFD, shall:
     (a)  prepare, not later than  December 31, 1989, a monitoring
system of the  rural  finance  operations  of all banks, including
operations under this Project;
     (b)  sign, not later than June 30, 1990, a contract for twin-
ning arrangements with  an  external  agency  to  provide start up
support for  policy  research  and  to  strengthen  mechanisms for
program monitoring; and
     (c)  complete, not  later  than  December  31,  1989, a staff
development program for RFD.
Page  4
     Section 2.15. BOG shall employ,  not later than September 30,
1989, a rural  banks  inspection  adviser  in  accordance with the
provisions  set  forth  in  Section  II  of  Schedule  3  to  this
Agreement.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) BOG  shall  ensure  that RFD maintains pro-
cedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress of
the Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived  from  it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the opera-
tions and financial condition of RFD.
     (b)  BOG shall ensure that RFD:
          (i)  has its records,  accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related statements) relating to the Project for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles  consistently applied by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnishes to the Association,  as soon as available
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year:  (A)  certified copies re-
               lating to the  Project  of its financial statements
               for such year as so  audited; and (B) the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such detail as  the  Association shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnishes to the Association such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as  well  as  the  audit  thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, BOG shall ensure that RFD:
          (i)  maintains or causes to  be maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensures that  all  records  (contracts, orders, in-
               voices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) evi-
               dencing such  expenditures  are  retained  until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enables   the   Association's   representatives  to
               examine such records.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of BOG  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
Page  5
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
         (ii)  a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BOG of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BOG:
           Bank of Ghana
           P.O. Box 2674
           Accra
           Ghana
     Cable address                          Telex:
           GHANA BANK                         2541 GHANABANK GH
           Accra                              2052
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BOG  or  by  BOG  on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Governor of BOG or  by  such other person or persons as BOG
shall designate in writing, and  BOG shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        BANK OF GHANA
                        By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
            Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
                   and Participation Agreements
     Except as the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, the prin-
cipal terms and conditions set  forth in this Schedule shall apply
for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement with respect to
Participation Agreements.
A.   Terms
1.   Currency
     All Sub-loans shall  be  denominated  in Cedis. The aggregate
amount (the PFI Subsidiary Loan) to  be made available by BOG to a
PFI under  its  respective  Participation  Agreement  shall be the
equivalent in Cedis (determined as of the respective date or dates
of withdrawal from the Credit  Account using the market determined
rate of the  most  recent  foreign  exchange  auction or any other
lawful rates acceptable to  the  Association)  of the value of the
currency or currencies so withdrawn or  paid out on account of the
cost of the goods and services required for the carrying out of an
Investment Project.
2.   Interest Rates
     (a)  Interest on a PFI  Subsidiary  Loan  shall be charged on
the principal amount thereof  outstanding  from  time to time at a
reference interest rate which shall  be  based on the average cost
of 180-day  deposits  mobilized  by  PFIs  (the Reference Interest
Rate).
     (b)  Interest on Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises shall be
determined by PFIs and shall  be  variable and be adjusted by PFIs
in accordance with changes  in  the  Reference Interest Rate; pro-
vided, however, that the maximum annual increase in interest rates
shall be limited to 5%.
3.   Maturities
     Sub-loans  shall  have   maturities   and  grace  periods  in
accordance with the standard practice of the PFI concerned.
4.   Pre-payment
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or any part  of any such Sub-loan shall be
repaid to a PFI in  advance  of  maturity  or if a Sub-loan or any
part of any such Sub-loan  shall be sold, transferred, assigned or
otherwise disposed of for value  by  a PFI, the PFI shall promptly
notify BOG and shall repay  to  BOG on the next following interest
payment date, the amount withdrawn in respect of any such Sub-loan
or part thereof.
Page  7
     (b)  Any amount so repaid by the  PFI shall be applied by BOG
to the  maturity  or  maturities  of  the  PFI  Subsidiary Loan in
amounts corresponding to the  outstanding  amounts of the maturity
or maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
B.   Conditions
1.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  contain provisions pur-
suant to which each PFI shall continue to:
     (a)  be duly established and operating  under the laws of the
Borrower;
     (b)  maintain a sound  financial  structure,  a healthy port-
folio, and the organization, management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its activities;
     (c)  conduct its  operations  and  affairs including interest
rate policies in  accordance  with  sound financial principles and
practices;
     (d)  maintain a lending  and  investment policy acceptable to
the Association and BOG  and  suitable  procedures and an adequate
number of suitably qualified staff to enable it effectively to:
          (i)  appraise  the  financial,  technical, environmental
               and economic feasibility of Investment Projects and
               make  Sub-loans   to   Investment   Enterprises  in
               accordance with said  lending and investment policy
               and on the  basis  of  the criteria, procedures and
               principal  terms  and   conditions   set  forth  in
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  supervise, monitor and  report  on the carrying out
               by Investment  Enterprises  of Investment Projects,
               including the  procurement  of  goods and services,
               costs and benefits therefor.
2.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  also contain provisions
requiring each PFI to:
     (a)  exercise its rights in  respect  of  Sub-loans in such a
manner  as  to  protect   the   interests  of  the  Borrower,  the
Association and BOG and to  comply  with its obligations under its
Participation Agreement in order to achieve the purposes of Part A
of the Project;
     (b)  undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of
its agreements providing  for  Sub-loans  or any provision thereof
without the approval of BOG;
     (c)   (i)  maintain records and  accounts adequate to monitor
                and record the operations, resources, expenditures
                and progress of each  Investment Project and with-
                drawals from the  Sub-accounts  and to reflect, in
                accordance  with   consistently  maintained  sound
                accounting practices, its operations and financial
                conditions relating thereto;
          (ii)  have its  records,  accounts  and financial state-
                ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of income and
                expenses and  related  statements)  including Sub-
                accounts for each  fiscal  year audited, in accor-
                dance with  appropriate  auditing  principles con-
                sistently   applied    by   independent   auditors
                acceptable to the Association;
         (iii)  furnish to BOG as  soon  as  available, but in any
                case not later than  six  months  after the end of
                each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of  its
                statutory financial  statements  and  accounts for
Page  8
                such year as so  audited;  and (B) with respect to
                the Project,  supplementary  audited statements by
                said auditors of  such  scope  and in such detail,
                including  the  status  of  Sub-accounts  and com-
                pliance  by  PFIs  with  eligibility  criteria  of
                Investment Projects,  as  BOG  or  the Association
                shall have reasonably requested;
          (iv)  within six weeks of the  end  of the first and the
                second six months of the calendar year, furnish to
                BOG Semi-Annual Progress Reports; and
           (v)  furnish to BOG  periodic  reports on the operation
                of the Sub-accounts.
C.   Eligibility   Criteria   for   Investment   Enterprises   and
     Investment Projects
1.   All individuals  and  legal  entities  engaged  in productive
activities in the rural  sector,  with  the exception of industry,
real estate and speculative trading,  are eligible to receive Sub-
loans from PFIs to carry out Investment Projects.
2.   BOG shall ensure  that  PFIs  adopt  the following procedures
when processing Investment Projects:
     (a)  Investment Enterprises shall contribute  at least 10% of
the  Investment  Project's  cost  in  equity  or  from internally-
generated resources.
     (b)  PFIs  shall  carry  out   the  appraisal  of  Investment
Projects  in  accordance   with   procedures   acceptable  to  the
Association,  which  shall  include  a  review  of  the  financial
viability of the  Investment  Project,  the  financing plan and an
assessment  of   the   management   capacity   of  the  Investment
Enterprise.
     (c)  The  maximum  size  of  a  Sub-loan  shall  be  $200,000
equivalent.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Terms and Conditions
                           of Sub-loans
1.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Association and  such expenditures shall have been
made not earlier than ninety days  prior  to the date on which the
Association shall have  received  the  application and information
required under paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Association has authorized
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than  ninety  days prior to the date on
which  the  Association  shall   have  received  the  request  and
information required under  paragraph  2  (b)  of this Schedule in
respect  of  such  free-limit  Sub-loan  or  Investment.  For  the
purposes of the Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a
free-limit Sub-loan shall be a  Sub-loan other than the first five
Sub-loans above $100,000 equivalent.
2.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Association  for  approval,  BOG shall furnish to the
Association  an  application,  in   a  form  satisfactory  to  the
Association, together with:  (i)  a  description of the Investment
Enterprises and an appraisal  of the Investment Project, including
Page  9
procurement procedures and a  description of the expenditures pro-
posed to be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the
proposed terms  and  conditions  of  the  Sub-loan,  including the
schedule of amortization  of  the  Sub-loan;  and (iii) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request  by  BOG  for  authorization  to make with-
drawals from the Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise  and  the  Investment  Project,  including  procurement
procedures and a description  of  the  expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before March 31, 1992.
3.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby BOG shall cause each
PFI to obtain by written  contract with the Investment Enterprises
or by other appropriate  legal  means,  rights adequate to protect
the interests of the Borrower,  the Association and BOG, including
the right to:
     (a)  require the  Investment  Enterprises  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance  with  sound technical, financial, environmental
and managerial  standards  and  to  maintain  adequate records and
accounts;
     (b)  require that:
          (i)  the goods and services  to  be  financed out of the
               proceeds of  the  Credit  shall  be  purchased at a
               reasonable price, account being taken also of other
               relevant  factors  such  as  time  of  delivery and
               efficiency, reliability  of  the  goods, and avail-
               ability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts
               therefor, and, in  the  case  of services, of their
               quality and the competence of the parties rendering
               them;
         (ii)  the  goods  estimated   to   cost   more  than  the
               equivalent of  $75,000  per  contract:  (A)  may be
               procured under contracts  awarded  on  the basis of
               comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from a
               list of at least  three qualified suppliers from at
               least two countries  eligible under the Guidelines,
               in accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to the
               Association; and (B)  all  contracts for such goods
               shall be reviewed by the PFIs prior to award; and
        (iii)  such goods and  services  shall be used exclusively
               in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly, with representatives of
the Association if the  Association  shall  so request, such goods
and the sites,  works,  plants  and  construction  included in the
Investment  Project,  the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the  Investment Enterprises shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practices;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit  to  the  place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprises  to  replace or repair such
goods;
Page  10
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or BOG
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration,  operations   and   financial   condition  of  the
Investment Enterprises and to the  benefits to be derived from the
Investment Projects; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Investment
Enterprises to the use of the  proceeds of the Credit upon failure
by such Investment  Enterprises  to  perform its obligations under
its contract with the PFIs.
                            SCHEDULE 3
            Procurement and Consultants' Services under
                 Parts B through F of the Project
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   Procedures
     Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised  locally,  in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract,  together  with  the other information re-
quired to be furnished to  the  Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist BOG in  carrying  out Parts B through F of
the Project, BOG  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Page  11
