Page  1
                                                   January 5, 1992
PNDC Secretary for Finance and
 Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
The Governor
Bank of Ghana
P.O. Box 2674
Accra, Ghana
                  Credit No. 2040 GH (Rural Finance Project)
                  Amendment of Project Agreement
Dear Sirs,
      We refer to the Project Agreement (Rural Finance Project),
dated July 28, 1989, as amended September 19, 1991, between the
International Development Association (the Association) and the Bank
of Ghana (BOG).  Further to the discussions held with the
representatives of the Republic of Ghana (the Borrower) and BOG, we
are pleased to inform you that the Association hereby agrees to the
following amendments to the above-referenced Project Agreement:
      1.  Paragraph 2(a) of Part A of Schedule 1 is amended and
restated to read in its entirety as follows
      "(a)  Interest on a PFI subsidiary loan shall be charged on
      the principal amount thereof outstanding from time to time at
      a reference interest rate which shall equal (i) the average of
      the current minimum savings deposit rate and the current
      maximum rate on 180-day deposits, in each case as quoted by a
      PFI in the clearing house system, minus (ii) two percentage
      points (the Reference Interest Rate)."
      2.  Paragraph 2(c) of Part C of Schedule 1 is deleted in its
entirety.
      Please indicate the agreement of BOG and the Borrower with the
foregoing by countersigning and dating the form of confirmation and
acknowledgement, respectively, on the two original copies of this
letter and returning one original, as countersigned, to us.  This
amendment shall become effective as of the date of receipt by the
Association of this letter duly countersigned on behalf of BOG and
the Borrower.
                         Sincerely yours,
                           Edwin R. Lim
                             Director
                     Western Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
BANK OF GHANA
By
      Authorized Representative
Date: January 14, 1993
ACKNOWLEDGED:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By:
      Authorized Representative
Date: January 14, 1993
