Document of
The World Bank
Report No.14591-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 18, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Umil: Guarani (G$)
EX(HANGE RATE
(as of March 28, 199I5)
U*S$I ((   iI .9(6)
WEIGITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
Jaimuarx I to Deceniber '31
ACADEMIC YEAR
MAarch - No%ember
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CGN            Contralor General (le la Nacion (Comptroller General of the Nation)
CNE            (Congreso Nacionial de Fducacion (National Education Congress)
DFD            Direcci6n di Formaci6n Docente (Department of Teacher Training)
DOEV           Direcci6n (Ie Orientacioln E:ducacional v V'ocacional (Department of Vocational and
Educational Orientation)
DTC            Departmental Training Center
HIID           Harvard Institute for Intcrniational Devclopment
ICB            International ('ompetitikc Bidding
IDB            Inter-American Development Bantk (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IkC            Information-EdLJcation Conmimunication (Loan)
IEPS           Initial Execuliie Project Summary
ISE            Instituto Superior (ic Educaci6n (Institute tor Higher Education)
LIB            Limited International Bidding
LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEC            Ministerio dc Educaci6n y, Culto (Ministry of Education)
MERCOSUR   Mercado Conimn del Cono Stir (Southern Cone Common Market)
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organizations (Organizaciones no Gubernamentales)
PCIJ           Project Coordination Unit dUnidad Coordinadora del Proyecto)
PIP            Project Implementation Plan (Plan de Implementaci6n del Proyecto)
PPF            Project Preparation FacilitN
SINAD          Sistema Nacional de Actualizacirin Docente (National System for Teacher Training)
SNEPE          Si%tema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo
SNPP           Servicio Nacional de Promoci6n v I'rofesionalizaci6n (National Service of
Promotion and Professiorialization)
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
STP            Secretaria T'cnica de Planificaci6n (Technical Secretariat of Planning)
UC             Uniiersidad Cat6lica (Catholic University)
UNA            Universidad Nacional de Asunci6n (National University of Asuncion)
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund (Organizaci6n de las Naciones Unidas nara la
Infancia)
UNESCO         United Nations Educational Scierititic and Cultural Organization (Organizacion de
las Naciones lUnidas para la Educaci6n, la Ciencia y la Cultura)
UPD            IJnidlaid Pedag6Vica Departarnental
IJTAD          Unidad Tecnica (ic Actualizaci6n Docente
VAT            Value Added 'I'ax (Impuesto al Valor Agregado)



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ..................................................1
A. RECENT ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS .................................................                                                                        I
B. EDUCATION SECTOR OVERVIEW .................................................                                                                                         2
C. KEY SECTOR ISSUES .................................................                                                                                                6
D. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND RECENT INITIATIVES IN EDUCATION .................................................    10
E. BANK EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY .................................................                                                                                     12
2. THE PROJECT .................................................                                                                                                     15
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS .................................................                                                                               15
B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION .................................................                                                                                              16
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  PLAN .................................................                                                                              27
A. PROJECT COSTS .................................................                                                                                                   27
B. FINANCING PLAN .................................................                                                                                                 29
C. RECURRENT COSTS .................................................                                                                                                29
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .................................................                                                                                               30
E. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS .................................................                                                                                        31
F. DISBURSEMENTS AND ACCOUNTS .................................................. 35
G. AUDrrS .................................................                                                                                                         36
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .................................................                                                                            37
A. STATUS OF PREPARATION .................................................                                                                                          37
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                                             ................................................. 37
C. PROJECT MONITORING, EVALUATION AND SUPERVISION .................................................                                                                 38
5. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................................                                                                                     39
A. EXPECTED BENEFITS .................................................                                                                                              39
B. EXPECTED RISKS AND SAFEGUARDS .................................................                                                                                  39
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................................................                                                                              40
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED .................................................                                                                                             40
B. RECOMMENDATION .................................................                                                                                                 41



Annexes
1.  Structure of the Paraguayan Educational System ................................................... 42
2.  Selected Educational Statistics ........................................................                     43
3.  Education - Financial and Economic Data ........................................................   51
4.  Student Assessment System .......................................................                            60
5.  Provision of Textbooks and Educational Materials ..............................   .......... 64
6.  Strategy for Training of Teachers and School Managers ....................................... 71
7.  Infrastructure Improvement Program                      ....................................................... 80
8.   D etailed   Project  Costs   .......................................................                         82
9.  Procurement Clauses for Loan Agreement and Procurement Arrangements .......  86
10. Disbursement Forecasts ......................................................                                88
11. PCU  Structure and Functions .......................................................                         89
12. Project Implementation Schedule and Performance Indicators ................................ 92
13. Bank Supervision Plan .......................................................                                98
14. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files                                    .        .            101
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Paraguay in May 1995, led by Ms. Julie Van
Domelen (LAIHR) and consisting of Messrs./Mmes: Guiomar de Mello (LAIHR), consultants Clifton Chadwick
(textbooks), Cecilia Jara (teacher training), Armando Godinez (community participation and policy studies), Luis Secco
(infrastructure), Erika Hinimel (academic achievement system), Henry Forero (education statistics system), and Linda
Larach (Bank Facilitating Office/Asunci6n). Background reports were prepared by Naoko Kamioka (LA IHR) and
Jennifer Haworth (LAIHR-Summer Intern). Peer reviewers are Messrs./Mmes: Eduardo Velez (LA2HR), Himelda
Martinez (EA3PH), and Alan Dock (AFIHR). Jenny Fernandez (LAIHR) assisted in report production. Messrs. Alain
Col5iou and Gobind T. Nankani are, respectively, the Division Chief and the Department Director for this operation.



-III-
PARAGUAY
SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Republic of Paraguay
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Education and Culture (MEG)
Poverty:                  Not applicable
Amount:                  US$24.5 million equivalent
Terms:                    Fixed rate US dollar single currency loan for up to 15 years at the
standard LIBOR-based interest rate. Each semester's aggregate
disbursements (Disbursed Amount) will have a grace period of
three years and a final maturity of nine years from the rate fixing
date of that Disbursed Amount. The interest payment dates and
rate fixing dates are June 15 and December 15, respectively.
Commitment Fee:           0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:           See Schedule A
Net Present Value:       Calculation of a net present value for this specific investment is
not applicable. The economic analysis of this project has
included optimization of unit costs and cost effectiveness
considerations. At the sector level, private and social rates of
return to secondary education in the Greater Asuncion area are
15 percent and 13 percent, respectively.
Financial Benefits
and Risks:                The Borrower has selected fixed rate US dollar single currency
loan terms in order to improve the management of its extemal
liabilities and reduce its risks. The choice of US dollar terms
reflects the importance of the US and US dollar-based
contracts in Paraguay's international trade and Treasury
receipts. The Government considers a fixed interest rate
appropriate for the diversification of its interest rate risk and
management of the repayment stream.
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 14591-PA
Project Identification:  No. PY-PA-7923



-iv-
PARAGUAY
SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.    General Country Data                                                  Year
GNP Per Capita (US$)                              1,380              1992
Area (Thousand Square Kilometers)                   407              1992
Population Estimate (Millions)                        4.5            1992
Density (Habitants/Km2)                              10              1992
Urban Population (% of Total)                        49              1992
Population Projection for Year 2000 (Millions)        6              2000
B.    Social Indicators
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                          6              1992
Annual Rate of Population Growth (%/)                 2.8            1992
Annual Rate of Urban Population Growth (%)            3.8            1992
Total Fertility Rate (birth per woman)                4.6            1992
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                         35              1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                    36              1992
Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                     67              1992
Adults Illiteracy Rate (% of per. over 15)           10              1990
C.    Basic Education Data
Primary Gross Enrollment (Age 6-13) (/O)            106              1991
Secondary Gross Enrollment (Age 13-18) (%)           30              1991
Higher Education Gross Enrollment (%/O)               8              1991
Primary Student/Teacher Ratio                        25              1991
Gender Comparison
Primary (females per 100 males)               93              1991
Secondary (females per 100 males)            102              1991
D.    Education Expenditure Data
Education Spending as % of total Public Budget       17              1993
Education Spending as % of GDP                        2.9            1993
Share of Public Spending by Education Level
Primary                                      50.2            1992
Secondary                                    26.2            1992
Higher                                       23.6            1992
Sources: World Bank, Social Indicators of Development, 1993; World Bank, World Development
Report, 1994, Bank estimates.



PARAGUAY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
1.1   Paraguay has recently begun to emerge from a long period of relative political and
cultural isolation. The transition to a democratic system has been stable following the
1989 coup that ended the 35-year dictatorship. Extreme poverty is low and income
distribution is better than average for Latin America. Despite some fluctuations,
macroeconomic management of the open economy has been generally sound. However,
key challenges remain, both to consolidate economic results and to further alleviate
poverty. The education sector is central to the twin goals of sustaining growth and
improving living standards.
A. Recent Economic and Political Developments
1.2   Economic Strategy. Paraguay's real GDP growth rate averaged 5.6 percent
annually between 1960 and 1992, the highest average rate in Latin America for this
period. This performance was primarily attributed to abundant land for agricultural
expansion; development of considerable hydroelectric resources; a defacto open economy
that allowed the sale of goods to visitors from its larger, highly protected neighbors; and a
small public sector which generated few distortions. However, economic performance
was uneven over this period, with a long period of economic growth and macroeconomic
stability during the 1960s and 1970s succeeded by economic deterioration in the early and
rnid-1980s. The Government that took office in early 1989 sought to rectify the economic
imbalances. GDP growth recovered to about 4 percent in 1993 and 3.5 percent in 1994.
1.3   Parallel to the internal reform progress, in 1991 Paraguay agreed to join a regional
trade group comprised of Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, Mercado Comun del
Cono Sur (Southern Cone Common Market), or MERCOSUR. In the context of
MERCOSUR, Paraguay has to contend with countries that have much larger internal
markets, better infrastructure, more skilled human resources and comparative advantages
in many of Paraguay's exports. To compete, Paraguay will need to invest heavily in
human resource development and basic infrastructure, as well as to enact key legal and
institutional reforms to attract needed investment. Without these actions, lack of a well-
trained labor force may constrain Paraguay's competitiveness.
1.4   Poverty Conditions. Paraguay appears to be among the countries in Latin
America where income is more evenly distributed and extreme poverty less widespread.
Nonetheless, social spending has historically been very low. As a result, access to and
quality of basic social services are uneven. Coverage of water and sanitation services is
deficient at an average of 46 percent for urban areas and 12 percent for rural areas,
representing almost half of the averages for Latin America. Infant mortality and life



-2-
expectancy are generally better than in many other Latin American countries. However,
maternal mortality remains high and, with the exception of Bolivia, Paraguay has the
highest fertility rate in South America. Even in the face of a rapidly expanding population,
Paraguay has achieved nearly universal primary education coverage. This feat is not
matched at the secondary level, where enrollment rates remain among the lowest in the
Region (para. 1. 10). Moreover, quality of social services is an issue at all levels.
1.5   Democratization. A new Constitution was adopted in June 1992 and the country
returned to democratic rule by 1993. Article 85 of the Constitution mandates that a
minimum of 20 percent of the Government budget be spent on education. The
Constitution also calls for basic education to be obligatory and free, and children to be
taught in their maternal language during the first years of instruction. The new
Administration places a high priority on improving social conditions, and has set out an
ambitious agenda of educational reforms. Pressure to change the educational system
stems as much from the desire to modernize and move Paraguayan society forward as
from the desire to break with the highly centralized education system of the past With the
creation of departmental governments (gobernaciones) under the Constitution, a political
process has been initiated to define the roles and responsibilities of various levels of
government, ultimately to include changes in resource flows and the entrance of new,
subnational actors into the education system. This process may ultimately lead to a more
decentralized education system and greater local control of schools. The challenge to the
Government is to design technically sound proposals and to negotiate with a newly-
embodied Congress which has demonstrated a proactive stance in the education sector.
B. Education Sector Overview
1.6   Structure of Education. Historically, the education system consisted of six years
of primary education for children age 7 to 12, six years of secondary education for
children age 13 to 18, and four to six years of higher education. Within secondary
education, the first three-year basic cycle was followed by a diversified upper-cycle
(Bachillerato). The diversified secondary education system, introduced in 1974, offers
concentrations in general (or academic), commercial, and technical areas. In addition, the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock administers about ten agricultural secondary
schools mainly in rural areas which award agricultural Bachilleratos.
1.7   The education system is currently being restructured to encompass nine years of
basic education, divided into three-year cycles (see Annex 1): first cycle: grades 1-3,
second cycle: grades 4-6, and third cycle: grades 7-9. Under the new structure, children
will start basic education at the age of six. The upper secondary level, which will be called
"middle education" (educaci6n media) under the reform, will continue to offer the existing
three tracks: general (academic-oriented), commercial (business and public
administration), and technical (industrial and other vocational education).



-3-
1.8   Secondary graduates can opt for short-term, non-titular vocational courses given
through the National Service for Promotion and Professionalization (Servicio Nacional de
Promocion y Profesionalizaci6n, SNPP), or for four to six years of higher education
provided by the universities and other professional institutes. Until 1989, only two
institutions had full university status: the public National University of Asuncion
(Universidad Nacional de Asunci6n, UNA), and the Catholic University (Universidad
CatOlica, UC), a private institution subsidized by the state. Five private universities have
opened since 1990. In addition, the Institute for Higher Education (Instituto Superior de
Educaci6n, ISE) functions as the principal post-secondary teacher training facility in the
country. The duration of training for primary teaching is two years and three years for
secondary. ISE also offers a variety of in-service training programs.
1.9    Enrollment. Considering the fast-growing school age population and the
country's largely rural and dispersed population, the achievement in basic education is
laudable. The illiteracy rate is low compared with other Latin American countries, on a
par with Costa Rica and the other Southern Cone countries. This is largely a function of
high primary school enrollment rates over the last two decades. Gross enrollment rates
have been above 100 percent since the early 1970s, reflecting universal primary school
access for the 7- and 8-year-old population (see Annex 2 for basic educational statistics).
Primary net enrollment rates are also relatively high at 95 percent by 1993.
1.10  In contrast, secondary school enrollment is one of the lowest in the Region. In
1992, gross secondary school enrollment was estimated at 33 percent, with net enrollment
equivalent to 28 percent. This enrollment rate is well below both the average for the
Region (47 percent) and for countries of comparable income levels (55 percent),
especially compared with the Asian middle-income countries. Similarly, higher education
gross enrollment at 8 percent in 1991 is less than half of the average for middle income
countries (19 percent) and one of the lowest in Latin America.
1.11   Although growth rates for secondary education enrollment over the last ten years
have been higher than those for primary or tertiary, this is an improvement off a very low
base. Total secondary enrollment grew from 47,500 in 1969 to 212,248 in 1993 (Table
1.1). Two-thirds of all secondary school students are concentrated in the lower secondary
cycle. At the upper-secondary level, the majority of students follow the general track,
with 20 percent enrolled in the commercial track, and only 3 percent in the technical track.
.-,  : : -: - - -.   . . . .   . . . . .................:
:Table L: -i.Secouda  Enrii metlP
B oe ............ ..   35,400            76,100            140,779
Bwiln..........i.n............M   9,100   75%  35,800    82%    54,898      77%
C...    ..ji... ........e.....   2,800   23%  5,900    14%    14,194      20%
iferalo-T.chnicI ..       200    2%1    1,900         4%     2,377       3%
Total           .   ~~~~47,500 ___    119,7001 ____   212,248___
Source: Data for 1969 and 1980 - World Bank, Basic Education Report 1985;
Data for 1993 - Ministry of Education, Dept. of Educational Planning



-4-
1.12  Access to secondary school remains largely an urban phenomenon, representing 88
percent of students. In addition, over 80 percent of rural secondary students are enrolled
in the lower secondary cycle, with access to the upper tracks limited in the rural areas to
5,240 students nationwide as of 1993 (see Annex 2). There are no technical track upper-
secondary schools in the rural areas, and only a few offer commercial track courses.
1.13  In terms of enrollment by gender, no significant discriminatory patterns are found
in Paraguay. At the primary level, male enrollment exceeds female enrollment slightly in
the first few grades. However, the gap narrows as the grades get higher, with the overall
share of primary enrollment of boys 51 percent versus 49 percent for girls. Considering
that the repetition rate is higher among males than females, a larger number of male
pfimary enrollment may be attributed to a larger number of male repeaters. At the
secondary level, enrollment is comprised of 51 percent girls. At the post-secondary level,
female enrollment at universities is significant (for instance female enrollment at the UNA
is about 48 percent), and even higher in the post-secondary teacher training institutes
where women make up three-quarters of the student body.
1.14 Principal Actors in the System. The education system is highly centralized. The
Ministry of Education (Minis:erio de Educaci6ny Culto, MEC) is responsible for the
provision of public education at the primary and secondary levels. Virtually all
administrative functions of the MEC are centralized in Asuncion. However, seven
regional education centers, designed in the 1 970s as model schools to provide the full
range of educational opportunities including teacher training, provide contact points at the
sub-national level. To date, municipal and the recently-created regional governments have
not been active in the education sector. As for universities, under the Constitution, they
are autonomous and have the authority to establish their own forms of administration.
1.15  Private Sector. The private sector plays an important role in the education sector,
accounting for 13 percent of primary enrollment and 21 percent of secondary enrollment.
These shares have been relatively stable over the past ten years. In addition, there are
parochial schools officially classified as public schools, with school administration
managed by religious organizations and teachers' salaries financed by the MEC. Of a
total of 966 secondary schools in Paraguay in 1993, 683 were public, 242 private and 41
parochial. Private schools are usually more prestigious, and the quality and efficiency is
higher than that of public schools. The quality of parochial schools is also generally
considered to be higher than that of public schools. Although private and parochial
schools are provided considerable freedom in terms of management and course content,
they are required to follow the general precepts of the national curriculum, and are subject
to evaluation by supervisors of the MEC. At the university level enrollment is largely
public, although private sector participation has increased significantly.
1.16 Community Participation. Paraguay has a long tradition of active community
participation in education. Parents' associations (cooperadoras escolares) support school
and classroom construction and maintenance, finance the purchase and maintenance of



-5-
educational materials, and disseminate information on schools to the communities. In
many instances, parents' associations pay incremental teachers' salaries, particularly for
the creation of new courses at the lower secondary level, until such salaries can be
absorbed within the public budget. The MEC is currently revising the decree to broaden
and formalize the role and responsibilities of these associations, which henceforth will be
legally installed as Comisiones Cooperadoras Escolares.
1.17  The MEC has supported the active participation of parents' associations largely as
a mechanism for cofinancing educational investments at both the primary and secondary
levels. A Social Action Department exists within the NEC to support and monitor the
participation of the cooperadoras. In recent years, the MIEC has transferred funds directly
to the cooperadoras to purchase equipment and materials and then carry out the
construction of new classrooms either using donated labor from the community or by sub-
contracting labor paid by the cooperadoras. The results have been significant, with 345
new classrooms built by this method in 1993 at the primary and secondary levels, for a
total MEC disbursement of over US$1 million, and a reduction in unit costs.
1.18  Sector Financing Framework. The level of total government expenditures is
low, and at 11.5 percent of GDP in 1993 was not only one of the lowest in the Region but
one of the lowest in the world. This translates into limited public resources, in general, for
the social sectors. As a result, Paraguay's public expenditures in education are among the
lowest in Latin America (see Annex 3). While maintaining emphasis on universal primary
school enrollment, this limited public spending on education has been possible through:
(a) constraining access to the higher-cost secondary education; (b) sacrifices in quality at
all levels; and (c) significant private spending on education.
1.19 In 1991', public spending on education was equivalent to only 1.9 percent of GDP,
compared with a regional average for Latin America of 3.5 percent and well below
countries at similar per capita income levels. In terms of the overall budget composition,
education's share declined throughout most of the 1980s, falling from about 15 percent in
1983 to 10 percent in 1991. This trend was significantly reversed in 1992-93, when
increases in teachers' salaries boosted education's share in the national budget to about 17
percent and its share of GDP to 2.9 percent by 1993. These recent wage increases
represent the first real increase in teachers' salaries in the past ten years (see Annex 3).
1.20  Within the education sector, primary education has been the main recipient of
government funds over the past decade. About half of public educational expenditures go
to the primary level, slightly over 25 percent to secondary, and the remainder to higher
education. This translates into a 1992 average unit cost per student of about US$134 for
primary and US$245 for secondary. The lion's share of the education budget goes to pay
wages. Teachers' salaries account for about 95 percent of the recurrent expenditure
budget at the primary level and 99 percent at the secondary level, leaving few resources
available for teaching materials, building maintenance and other inputs. Capital
' 1991 is the most recent year for which significant cross-country data are available.



-6-
expenditures have been negligible over the past ten years, with continual declines in real
resources throughout the 1 980s. Only in 1992 did real capital investments in education
recover to 1982 levels. The MEC's administrative costs (including school supervision)
accounts for about 18 percent of its budget.
1.21  Private spending is significant at all levels in both the public and private systems.
Within the private system, a sample of private secondary schools in Asuncion revealed that
1994 annual tuition and fees (not including expenditures on books, uniforms, and other
inputs) ranged from US$350 to US$1,000 per student depending on the quality and
prestige of the school. Within public schools, private spending is substantial though not
necessarily equitable. Parents pay through a combination of school fees, expenditures on
textbooks, supplies and uniforms, and in-kind or cash contributions through the
cooperadoras escolares. The payments are often greatest in areas where Government
does not reach, such as more dispersed populations. Tuition and fees, at between US$34
and US$49 for public secondary schools depending on the level and track, are about ten to
thirty times less than those of private secondary schools. While comprehensive and recent
data are scant, a 1985 Bank sector review estimated that families were paying 23 percent
of the cost of primary schooling, 36 percent of the cost of secondary schooling and only
18 percent of the cost of higher education. In 1992, in the schools with cooperadoras, 67
percent of the nonsalary costs were financed by these associations. While school tuition
and fees are generally low, they did permit school directors to finance some basic inputs
and services and the school level. Until 1993 public school fees were collected and
managed autonomously at the school level. The Ministry of Finance has substituted a
central collection system through the National Treasury, which appears to be less agile and
may have a negative impact at the school level.
C. Key Sector Issues
1.22  The main issues affecting the Paraguayan secondary education system, to be
addressed by the proposed project, include: (a) limited and inequitable access to the
secondary level; (b) generally low levels of learning achievement, and particularly in core
skills such as Spanish, mathematics and sciences; (c) secondary school graduates often ill-
prepared to satisfy the needs of either higher education or the labor market; and (d) weak
institutional capacity to design and to execute the modernization and reform process.
1.23  Access to Secondary School. As described in the enrollment statistics (paras.
1.9-1.13), coverage at the secondary level is so low that it may constrain Paraguay's
prospects for economic development. Demand is outstripping supply as reflected in the
large wedge between primary and secondary enrollment rates and the large drop-off in
enrollment levels between the last year of primary and the first year of secondary school.
Parents queue for hours or even days to register their children at secondary schools,
particularly in the peri-urban areas. School principals routinely base admission on the
grade averages of candidates in order to ration the limited supply of places. Parental
pressure often leads to one or two years being added on to rural primary schools to



-7-
accommodate aspirations for their children's continuing education. This constrained
access tends to disfavor low-income students.
1.24  The access issue also affects quality. There is evidence of extreme overcrowding
in many peri-urban classrooms, reducing teaching effectiveness and contributing to the
wear and tear on school infrastructure. Even with active community participation, a
backlog of infrastructure needs exists at the secondary level, including rehabilitation and
construction of classrooms and complementary facilities to decongest existing spaces and
to provide for new students. With 98 percent of schools operating on at least two shifts
(often as a primary school in the morning and a secondary school in the afternoon), the
MEC will find it difficult to increase access without the expansion of school facilities.
1.25 Learning Achievement Levels and Educational Quality. Learning
achievements in the secondary education system are unsatisfactory. In 1991, only half of
all secondary students who took final exams passed them. Greater problems are apparent
in the lower cycle of secondary school, where only 57 percent passed the last year of that
cycle, compared to 73 percent who passed the last year of upper-secondary school,
reflecting a weeding-out phenomenon and the heritage of poor quality at the primary level.
However, these statistics should be interpreted with caution as there are no standard
academic achievement tests, and therefore results are highly dependent on the teachers'
testing criteria and individual school performance cannot be compared. In addition to
requiring a secondary school diploma, entrance exams are administered by each university
faculty. Because of the low quality of public secondary schools, it is not unusual to have
secondary school graduates take additional courses, often through the private sector, to
qualify for university admission. The statistics of the past two decades reveal that only half
of the applicants to UNA pass the entrance exams.
1.26 The determinants of student learning and the reasons for poor learning outcomes
are complex. One of the issues is linguistic. Paraguay presents the unique challenge of a
largely bilingual population, with 40 percent of the population speaking only Guarani.
Under the national curriculum, Guarani is taught as a required language at the primary
and lower-secondary levels. Based on the experience with a pilot program of bilingual
education in the early 1 980s, the Government is embarking on a more ambitious bilingual
program for the first three years of primary school. Nonetheless, this issue will continue
to pose challenges of quality at the intake of secondary school, particularly in the rural
areas. Attention needs to be placed on strengthening communication skills in Spanish at
the secondary level to satisfy the demands of the modern labor market.
1.27 The usual deficiencies found in many countries also affect learning outcomes in
Paraguay. Textbooks and materials available to secondary schools are largely outdated
and are not consistent with the basic tenets of the Education Reform agenda, namely
student-centered learning which promotes creativity, critical thinking, open dialogue, and
problem-solving skills. Moreover, supply is scarce, and even where textbooks are
available in schools, there is an administrative culture which tends to 'warehouse'
textbooks as a school resource rather than promote their use as a student learning



-8-
instrument. School libraries and complementary educational materials are also scarce. In
the case of laboratory facilities, those that exist remain significantly underused due to high
maintenance and restocking costs, poor initial design and little training to optimize their
use, as well as the pressure to use labs as regular classrooms in the face of overcrowding.
1.28   The quality of teaching practices is highly variable. Overall, teaching efforts are
thwarted by overcrowded or inadequate infrastructure, lack of good textbooks and
reference materials and a dearth of training. For years, low salaries demoralized teaching
staff, although recent increases have begun to restore the viability of the profession.  At
the secondary level, inadequate salaries had created so-called "taxi teachers" in urban
areas, who move between schools to maximize the number of shifts they teach during the
day. The growth of secondary schools and the limited expansion of teacher training at the
secondary level have created a shortfall of certified secondary teachers. Approximately
one out of four secondary teachers have only secondary education. On the other hand, 28
percent of secondary teachers have a university degrees but have not had any teacher
training in the area in which they are teaching. Expanded enrollment in secondary teacher
training should address, in part, the short-term needs for new secondary school teachers.
There are currently about 1,000 students being prepared as secondary school teachers.
1.29 One final element in low achievement levels is the limited amount of time students
actually spend learning. For instance, the "time on task" is well below standards. At the
primary level, the official school timetable requires only 680 hours per year of
instructional time, in contrast to the average of 839 for LAC countries which is already the
lowest among all the world's regions. At the secondary level, consistent international
comparisons are not available, but the same pattern appears to apply.
1.30   Internal Efficiency of Secondary Education. Internal efficiency of the system,
although better than in many countries in the Region has potential for improvement. The
poor quality of statistics and methodological weaknesses of repetition, drop-out, retention
and promotion rates call for a very cautious interpretation of these indicators. The average
primary school student stays for 6.3 years, but only passes 4.8 grades. At the primary
level, official statistics show an average repetition rate of 8.3 percent and drop-out rate of
4.2 percent for 1993. However, it is likely that actual repetition rates are higher than
those reported2. Using a simulation model to estimate student flows, Schiefelbein and
Heikkinen3 found an average repetition rate at the primary level of 20 percent and a drop-
out rate of 5 percent. Repetition rates tend to be lower for girls than boys, for urban
versus rural schools and for private over public schools. Overall, the student/teacher ratio
at the primary level is 24, with an average of 30 for urban schools and 21 in rural areas.
2 For instance, students who drop out before taking the final exam are likely to be reported as new students
rather than repeaters the next year. Students who change schools during the year are recorded as
drop-outs since there is no system for tracking individual student movements.
3 Schiefebein, E. and Heikkinen, S. , "Paraguay: Access, Repetition and Efficiency in Primary Education",
UNESCO-OREALC Regional System of Information, Santiago 1991.



-9-
1.31   The average student/teacher ratio at the secondary level is about 30, though the
method of payment by teaching hours and salary slot (cargo docente) makes accurate
estimation difficult. Though official statistics are not processed, at the secondary level
estimates indicate relatively significant repetition and drop-out and low promotion and
retention rates. The national average retention rate for the full cycle of six years is
approximately 50 percent, with a range of about 14 percent for rural areas versus 65
percent in the Asunci6n area. Unofficial statistics estimate an average repetition rate of 9
percent and drop-out rate of 15 percent over the six years of secondary school. The large
number of incomplete secondary schools contributes to these low rates.
1.32  External Efficiency. Average years of education of the work force have risen
over time, from four to about six in 1992 for the population over 25 years old. According
to most recent estimates, Paraguay was slightly above the LAC average, largely due to the
high primary school enrollment rates4, but below the average schooling levels of its major
trading partners (with the notable exception of Brazil). This country indicator disguises
large regional disparities, particularly for rural areas. The 1993 Household Survey of the
greater Asuncion area found that of the population ten years or older and economically
active, only one percent of the population had no education, 40 percent had some primary,
18 percent some lower-track cycle of secondary, 27 percent some upper-track secondary
and 15 percent some university education.
1.33 Returns to education in the workplace show significant earnings differentials by
education level, although data are only available for urban areas. In greater Asuncion,
workers who have completed university earn six times more than illiterate workers, 3.5
times more than workers with primary education, and 2.1 times more than workers with
complete secondary schooling. Primary education exhibits the highest private and social
rates of return, at 24 percent and 20 percent respectively. In greater Asuncion, private
rates of return for secondary education in 1990 were estimated at 15 percent, about the
same as the LAC regional average. Social rates of return, at 13 percent, were higher than
the regional average of 11 percent.
1.34  There is not sufficient information to analyze the relationships between the
education system and the labor market. To help orient the structure and curriculum of the
secondary level, there is a clear need for better information and analysis on the dynamics
of the labor market, including wage levels and skill gaps, and tracer studies of both labor
market and higher education outcomes of secondary school students. The annual
household surveys carried out by the General Statistics and Census Office, to be extended
to the national level starting in the 1995 round, will provide important information on the
evolution of labor markets and education level of the population.
1.35 Sector Management and Formulation of Sector Policies. Managerial
weaknesses are common throughout the public sector and decision-making is highly
centralized. Although most rank and file civil servants are experienced in their jobs,
4Barro, R. and Lee, J. "International Comparisons of Educational Attainment", World Bank, 1993.



-10-
routine matters are handled at the highest levels, often causing substantial delays.
Budgeting processes and investment decisions often lack analytical foundations. Norms
and regulations for procurement, accounting and auditing have not proven efficient nor
have they kept up with changes in technology and sound management practices. These
systemic weaknesses apply equally to the MEC and are summarized as follows:
1.36 Centralized Decision-Making. Historically, most managerial decisions have been
concentrated in Asunci6n and at very high levels, even when they pertain to local
problems, such as the performance of a school principal. The democratization process has
increased pressures on MEC managers, initiating a process of greater transparency in
decision-making and responsiveness to community concerns. As the management level is
overwhelmed with routine tasks, there is little time for strategic and policy-level planning,
or for effective monitoring of sector performance. The centralization of functions is
tempered by the strong, albeit defacto, role of school principals at the local level.
1.37 Coordination in the MEC. MEC operational departments function in relative
independence, if not isolation, from each other. This has led to duplication of efforts,
inconsistencies in information and difficulties coordinating services which encompass more
than one department. Recently, there have been some efforts to improve inter-
departmental cooperation. Through the preparation of the proposed project, working
groups were formed to integrate the themes of each project component across the
functional lines of the MEC.
1.38 School Supervision. The MEC has approximately fifty secondary school
supervisors covering an average of 20 schools each. Their role is more as an inspector,
checking administrative matters, with little time allocated for supporting teaching quality.
In addition, little training is provided to school supervisors and principals in school
management, curriculum implementation and other aspects of school performance.
1.39 Inadequate Monitoring, Evaluation and Policy Design. Carried out as part of
project preparation activities, an evaluation of the educational statistics system found that
the current information system is characterized by a high degree of centralization,
duplication of efforts and lack of coordination between various departments, use of
outdated or insufficient infornmation technology, little feedback to users, problems in the
quality of data received due to lack of standard definitions, and little training and
supervision of personnel at the school level. In addition, there is no systematic and
standardized system for comparing student achievement accurately between schools.
D. Government Strategy and Recent Initiatives in Education
1.40   Education Reform. With the political changes in 1989, the Government
undertook to review the education situation and to establish a new plan for the sector
attuned to the emerging needs of the country. To this end, the Educational Reform
Advisory Council (Consejo de la Reforma Educativa) was created (Executive Decree No.
7815, November 1990), consisting of 12 members, including representatives of academia,



-l l-
the private and non-governmental sectors. The objectives of the Council were to prepare
an analysis of the education system, design a reform program and oversee implementation.
1.41   The MEC embarked upon a participatory process to refine the reform agenda.
Representatives of parents' associations, teachers, school principals and supervisors
gathered at the local and national levels to discuss reform proposals. In late 1992, the
guidelines of education reform were presented by the Council and approved at the
National Education Congress (Conigreso Nacional de Educaci6n, CNE). The major
changes proposed were: (a) restructuring of the present six years of primary and six years
of secondary education into a system of nine years of basic education and three years of
'middle' education (see para. 1.7); (b) dividing basic education into three cycles with a
duration of three years each; (c) strengthening pre-school education to address the limited
coverage at present, and (d) lowering the age for entry into primary school from seven
years to six. In addition, a revised curriculum was proposed, to include flexibility for the
development of local curricula within the parameters of the national curriculum.
Curriculum content is to emphasize the opening of civil society, including the inclusion of
civic themes, critical thinking skills, and student-centered learning processes.
1.42 The Government inaugurated in August 1993 places education, especially
education reform, as a priority. Congress is currently working on the General Education
Law, the preliminary draft of which calls for the creation of a National Education Council
and the restructuring of the MEC. Some reform initiatives are already underway, most
importantly the implementation of the revised curriculum. Changes in the secondary
school curriculum are to be phased in upon implementation of the primary curriculum.
1.43 Rationalization and Modernization of the MEC. The MEC has made initial
efforts to increase its administrative and operational efficiency. Following retirements of
technical and managerial level personnel, transparent and competitive recruitment
procedures have been introduced, particularly for school supervisors and directors. Also,
an independent audit of the payroll has been completed which found significant anomalies,
including "ghost teachers", "ghost schools", professors receiving more than one salary,
and excessive teaching hours assigned to individuals. Based on these audits,
rationalization of the personnel structure within secondary schools was initiated in mid-
1994, permitting the MEC to generate savings sufficient to finance 34 new courses,
equivalent to five new complete secondary schools and one partial school (grades 7-10).
1.44  Investment Strategy. To support the implementation of its reform program, the
Government has developed a significant investment program in education, and has sought
policy advice and external financing to underpin this investment strategy. The US$59.0
million IDB-financed Primary Education Improvement Project became effective in March
1994. This project aims to improve the quality of pre-school and primary education, to
increase its internal efficiency, and to strengthen the administration of the education
system. Specifically, the project comprises: (a) improvements in education and teacher
quality through the redesign and implementation of a new primary-level curriculum,
provision of textbooks and teaching materials, expansion of access to pre-school



-12-
education, rehabilitation of primary school infrastructure, community information
campaigns, and the overhaul of the teacher training system, and (b) management
strengthening of the MEC in the areas of management and administrative information
systems (budgeting, property and inventory, personnel, and financial administration),
implementation of a school mapping exercise, development of a National Education
Evaluation System, strengthening of primary school supervision, as well as design of a
new functional organization of the MEC and the legal framework of the sector.
1.45   At the same time, the Government is seeking World Bank assistance at the
secondary level. Preparation of the proposed project has been coordinated closely with
the IDB project. Areas of joint support and division of labor have been clearly identified.
The two project coordination units are working closely in sharing information and plan
project activities. To formalize this relationship, a cooperation agreement between the
two projects, authorized by the Minister, was presented at negotiations (para. 6.1 (a)).
E. Bank Experience and Strategy
1.46   Since the early 1970s, the Bank has invested a total of US$39.1 million in five
education and training projects in Paraguay. In the 1970s, the Bank financed three
projects: (a) diversified secondary education, including the creation of the technical track,
(b) non-formal vocational training, and (c) the expansion of access to rural primary
education.5 In the 1980s, there were follow-on operations in rural primary education and
non-formal vocational training.6
1.47 While these projects increased access to primary and secondary school and
efficiency through better promotion and retention rates than in the 1970s, the institutional
impacts have eroded over time. OED reports found that the largely successful completion
of the physical targets of these projects was a direct result of strong and autonomous
project implementation units. However, after the Bank's hiatus from operations in
Paraguay in the mid-1980s, the experience of long-standing project implementation units
in education has largely been lost.
5 The First Education Project (Credit 347-PA), a US$5.1 million credit approved in December 1972,
financed the construction of diversified schools as well as the strengthening of the Department of
Technical and Vocational Education within the MEC. The Second Education Project (Loan 1252-T-
PA) a USS4.0 million loan approved in May 1976, supported non-formal vocational training through
SNPP. The Third Education Project (Loan 1346-PA/Credit 667-PA), a loan of US$8 million
approved December 1976, addressed rural primary education.
6(a) the Rural Primary Education Project (Loan 1992-PA), a loan of US$17 million to improve access to
and quality of rural prirary schools, and (b) the Second Vocational Training Project (Loan 2373-
PA), a US$5 million loan executed by the SNPP to promote rural development through improving
productivity, income and self-employment in selected agricultural frontier areas.



-13-
1.48   Lessons Learned in Education Projects7. The Bank's experience in the
education sector worldwide, along with specific lessons from Paraguay, have influenced
the objectives and the design of the proposed project. Experience suggests the following:
1.49   Educational Content. As put forth in the Bank's Vocational and Technical
Education and Training Policy Paper (1991), investments at the secondary level should
focus on improving core skills, especially in basic studies such as mathematics, science and
language, more than specialized technical knowledge. The experience shows that better
core skills improve worker adaptability to a rapidly changing workplace and promote
"trainability" of secondary school graduates.
1.50   Textbooks, School Libraries and Teaching Materials. Success in the effective
provision and use of these inputs depends on arrangements for the selection, publication,
procurement, distribution, storage, usage and financing of these inputs. Common
problems include: (a) poorly defined or ill-understood institutional and procurement
arrangements which result in inconsistent supply, inadequate timing and unreliable delivery
of these inputs; (b) limited technical capacity to select textbooks and materials, including
links between textbook content, curriculum and other educational objectives; and (c)
neglect of aspects related to book and teaching material utilization.
1.51    Educational Assessment Systems. To develop a country's assessment
capabilities, experience shows that it is necessary to: (a) ensure adequate technical training
and specialized personnel as part of the required staff, and (b) realistically assess the role
of the public sector, which should include formulation of assessment policies, test
development and monitoring and dissemination of results; and (c) shore up weak ministry
capacity with sub-contracting of key functions to universities or the private sector.
1.52   In-Service Teacher Training. For components supporting in-service teacher
training, the record is mixed. More successful experiences make clear distinctions
between activities to certify untrained teachers and those activities to upgrade the skills
and knowledge of current teachers. Programs that seek to improve teaching skills,
especially with the use of textbooks and teaching materials, are generally effective when
they are designed and implemented in the teachers' work environment.
1.53   Sustainability. Involving policy-makers and technical staff from the early stages
of project identification and design is a prerequisite for achieving project sustainability.
Other elements of project sustainability include: (a) providing for broad participation of
'This section is based on: (a) a review of 24 Project Performance Audit Reports, Project Completion
Reports and Staff Appraisal Reports from the LAC, Asia and Africa regions; (b) recommendations
from the following Bank documents: The Sustainabilitv of Investment Projects in Education (Report
No. 9225, OED, 1991); Lending for Learning: Twenty Years of World Bank Support for Basic
Education (Report WPS 686, PER, 1991); Textbooks in the Developing World: Economic and
Educational Choices, EDI, 1989); Effective Implementation: Key to Development Impact (Report of
the World Bank's Portfolio Management Task Force, 1992); Developing Educational Assessment
Systems in Latin America (Report No. 9, LATHR, 1991); and (c) Project Completion Reports and
Project Performance Audit Reports of previous Bank education projects in Paraguay.



-14-
system managers and stakeholders, including school principals and parents' associations,
(b) addressing in a timely manner the issue of counterpart funding, (c) defining both long-
and short-term project objectives so as to facilitate implementation. monitoring and
evaluation, and (d) building in project ownership.
1.54  Monitoring and Evaluation. Many of the impacts of previous investments in the
education sector are difficult to assess because of a lack of effective monitoring and
evaluation indicators and systems. Moreover, while quantitative targets of input delivery
have been relatively easy to track, the impacts on leaming achievement, internal and
external efficiency and overall institution-building objectives are not well understood. The
ability to measure these types of impacts should be built into monitoring efforts.
1.55  Lessons from Recent Experience in Paraguay. Project ownership and early
attention to implementation issues, especially procurement and disbursement
arrangements, have been crucial to the success of Bank investments.  In addition, the
strength of community participation has been effectively incorporated into Bank-financed
projects, most notably in rural water and sanitation investments, increasing the
sustainability and relevance of these projects. Maintaining timely and adequate
supervision has allowed for quality control and critical adjustments necessary during
implementation. While the most recent Country Implementation Review (December
1994) found no major shortfalls in counterpart funding, this may be largely a function of
the small number of projects in execution as the Bank rebuilds its portfolio in Paraguay.
Particular attention must be paid to the budgeting cycle and administrative requirements
for assigning counterpart funds under current public finance rules.
1.56  Effective implementation of education projects has relied on the creation of
efficient project units with well-qualified staff, direct access to the Minister of Education,
and continuous communications with supervisors, teachers and school administrators.
Provision of inputs was highly satisfactory. However, longer-term objectives, particularly
in institutional development and improved sector quality and efficiency, are more difficult
to assess due to weaknesses in monitoring and evaluation systems, lack of reliability of
official educational statistics, and a dearth of information on students.
1.57  Building on Lessons Learned. These lessons have been systematically
incorporated into the proposed project. Substantial advance planning and preparation
have been carried out through a PPF and a PRHD grant from the Japanese Government.
This has allowed for advance staffing of the key positions of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), including training in procurement and disbursement issues. Project preparation
has also financed technical assistance and training to MEC personnel in key areas of
project design to raise project quality and ensure ownership by the MEC rank and file.
1.58  The design of the project has taken into consideration: (a) giving priority to
improvements in core skills at the secondary level; (b) creating an appropriate information
and analytical basis for monitoring project and sector developments; (c) strengthening of
community participation and local school management; (d) incorporating school-based



-15-
teacher training linked explicitly to the selection and delivery of textbooks and other
educational materials to be provided by the proposed project; (e) building in elements of
teacher selection into the procurement of these materials; (f) defining a strategy for
student assessment appropriate for the thin institutional context in Paraguay, including
sub-contracting of selected parts of the system to private actors; (g) agreeing with
Government on overall counterpart funding levels and mechanisms to ensure that annual
allocations are disbursed in a timely manner.
Country Assistance Strategy
1.59   On-going operations were halted in the mid-1980s after the Bank suspended
disbursements in response to deteriorating macroeconomic management. With significant
improvements in economic policies in the early-I 990s, the Bank renewed its partnership
with Paraguay. As a first step, intensive efforts went into rebuilding the Bank's analysis of
economic and social conditions8. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
discussed by the Board on December 21, 1993, focuses on three objectives: (a) private
sector development, (b) agricultural development and natural resource management, and
(c) poverty alleviation through human resources development.
1.60  The Bank's assistance strategy in poverty and human resources development calls
for increasing access to secondary education, improving educational quality at all levels,
deconcentrating sector management, promoting community participation, and
strengthening institutional capacity. Attention to the secondary education level is relevant
to improving Paraguay's opportunities in the context of greater regional economic
competition within MERCOSUR. The proposed project would be the first step in
addressing the critical need to improve educational quality and overall sector management.
The proposed project would provide essential inputs while building the institutional,
analytical and policy foundations of a more far-reaching reform agenda in the future. The
proposed project complements the Bank portfolio and is fully consistent with the CAS.
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Components
2.1    The proposed project would support the Government's initiatives to improve the
quality, efficiency and coverage of secondary education (particularly the third cycle of
basic education), and to increase the MEC's institutional capacity for information-based
8 A Country Economic Memorandum - CEM (Report No. 9147-PA dated October 15, 1991), a Public
Expenditure Review: The Social Sectors (Report No. 10193-PA dated June 16, 1992), a study of the
implications of Paraguay's joining the MERCOSUR trade area (Report No. 10902-PA dated January
28, 1993), a poverty assessment (Poverty and the Social Sectors in Paraguay, Report No. 12293-PA,
dated June 29, 1994) and June 1994 updated CEM (Report No. 11723-PA).



-16-
decision-making. The specific objectives of the project would be to: (a) build the
necessary information base on educational system conditions and performance, essential
for the design and monitoring of sectoral policies and strategies, (b) improve teaching and
learning conditions within the classroom through the provision of essential inputs and
improved physical conditions; (c) gradually ease overcrowding and expand access at the
secondary level, beginning with grades 7-9; and (d) support more dynamic and
participatory school management at the local level.
2.2   The proposed project would consist of five components. The project would
increase institutional capacity through: Institutional Strengthening (US$3.2 million, or
nine percent of project base costs) to (a) develop an educational statistics system to track
student flows and system efficiency; (b) design and implement a student assessment system
to measure learning achievement; and (c) conduct research and policy studies to facilitate
information-based decision-making and increase the capacity to evaluate the impacts of
education investments. These efforts would apply to the education sector in general. The
quality, efficiency and coverage of secondary education would be improved by: Provision
of Textbooks, Educational Materials and Curricular Support (US$6. I million, or 17
percent of project base costs) to support the implementation of the revised curriculum and
access to and quality of learning materials for the final cycle of basic education; Training
for Teachers and School Managers (US$2.2 million, or six percent of base costs) to
support upgrading and innovations in the professional ability of secondary school teachers
as well as training and orientation in school management for supervisors, school principals
and parents' associations; Infrastructure Upgrading and Expansion (US$20.5 million,
or 57 percent of base costs) to finance the rehabilitation and expansion of classrooms and
school-based facilities and the provision of basic school furniture, and would continue
incentives for the involvement of parents' associations in the cofinancing of school
infrastructure; and a Pilot Proposal for School-Based Innovation Projects (US$1.0
million, or 3 percent of base costs) to develop a small pilot experience in demand-driven,
school-based innovations designed by the schools themselves, modeled after the
experiences underway in Chile, Brazil, and Uruguay. In addition, support to the Project
Coordination Unit and PPF refinancing accounts for the remaining six and one percent of
base costs, respectively.
B. Project Description
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening
2.3   The objective of this component is to build the informational and analytical basis
for monitoring educational developments, as well as to design appropriate sectoral
policies. The focus will be on micro-level information (e.g., assessment of student
achievement levels), system information (e.g., an education statistics system to monitor
student flows), and sectoral analysis through policy studies, research and impact
evaluations. Other areas of institutional weaknesses, particularly in administrative,



-17-
management and control functions of the MEC, are being addressed through the 1DB-
financed project (paras. 1.44).
Sub-Component: Development of an Educational Statistics System
2.4   The general objective of this sub-component is to establish an educational
information system which supports the needs of each level of the system, thereby creating
an effective tool to plan and evaluate education system performance. Specifically, the sub-
component would seek to: (a) improve the quality of information currently processed;
(b) disseminate information based on a communications strategy oriented both toward the
sector and to the general public; and (c) provide sufficient technology and training to each
level of intervention (school, supervision region, and central MEC departments) which has
a role in collecting and processing educational statistics.
2.5   To attain these objectives, the sub-component would carry out activities in four
main areas. The initial stage would focus on the design of an appropriate statistics system,
including the development of a Manual of Educational Indicators, workshops to build
consensus on the information needs of each level in the system, redesign and adjustments
to existing data collection instruments, and creation of manuals for statistical
administration for each level (local, regional and national). The implementation phase
would define data base configurations and procure information technology (software,
hardware and other office technology) required by each level concerned in the processing
and diffusion of statistical information. After implementation at the central level in the
first year, decentralization of information processing would be carried out through the
implementation of information technology at the regional and school levels on an
experimental basis in 50 selected institutions (schools, supervision offices, and regional
government offices). Training in system administration would be conducted initially at the
central level, followed by regional workshops. Central level training would include the use
of models to project student enrollment rates as a basic management tool of the
Department of Planning. The sub-component would also finance analysis and
dissemination of indicators, with particular attention to feedback mechanisms to the
school level to improve local school management. The education statistics system would
become the mechanism for continual updating of the IDB-financed school mapping
exercise. The MEC would commission an information audit to evaluate the reliability and
quality of information in the system following its implementation.
Sub-Component: Development of a Student Assessment System
2.6   The on-going educational reform has stirred a keen interest in developing an
effective system for monitoring levels of student learning. Under the aegis of the National
System for Evaluation of the Education Process (Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del
Proceso Educativo, SNEPE), the IDB and the Bank will jointly support the establishment
of a national student assessment system. The IDB will finance achievement tests at the
primary level, and the proposed project would support the assessments at the secondary



-18-
education. Technical assistance and training requirements of SNEPE are to be shared
between the two projects.
2.7   The national assessment system would provide periodic, reliable and timely
information on student cognitive achievement, and would identify factors that can help
explain the differences in learning outcomes. Effective strategies for disseminating results
to the various targeted audiences would be implemented, including direct feedback to
schools and teachers, analysis of results for policy makers and the public in general. One
important focus of this feedback would be to orient the in-service teacher training
activities and content. Once census-based information is available, comparison of school
performance will identify critical areas to direct future MEC efforts. Furthermore, an
updated database of the results would be available for educational researchers.
2.8    The assessment system would measure learning in Spanish, Spanish literature,
Guarani, mathematics, natural sciences, and social studies, with an annual core of
mathematics and Spanish and rotating modules of the other subjects. The tests would be
criterion-referenced and would be administered to students at the final grade of the
educational cycles covered by the project (i.e., grades 9 and 12). During the
implementation of the proposed project, three sample-based administrations and one
census-based administration would be undertaken. In tandem, surveys for directors,
teachers and parents would be carried out. These surveys would provide information on
student background and school inputs and processes, so as to strengthen the policy
implications of the assessment data.
2.9    As the institutional home to SNEPE, the MEC's Department of Vocational and
Educational Orientation (Direcci6n de Orientacion Educacionaly Vocacional, DOEV)
would be responsible for the management of the system, including quality control, test
development and administration, and the dissemination and utilization of results. All
aspects related to data processing and analysis would be sub-contracted. The project
would finance technical assistance and training for DOEV's central unit in general skills
and in the design of test content at the secondary level, equipment and material needs, the
implementation of sample and census-based tests and dissemination of results. The
sustainability of the system would be furthered by the capacity-building activities, the
lower cost of a sample-based system, and the stimulation of demand for information. A
detailed description of component activities is found in Annex 4.
Sub-Component: Policy Studies, Research and Impact Evaluations
2.10  The objective of this sub-component is to build the foundations of a longer-term
education sector policy, and for secondary education in particular, based on the use of up-
to-date information, analytical rigor, dissemination and consensus-building. The sub-
component would adopt the following strategy: (a) ensure financing for a core set of
essential policy studies and technical support of particular relevance to the secondary level
and for evaluating the impacts of the project itself (para. 2.1 1); and (b) finance a number
of supplemental studies in areas of policy interest as determined based on the evolving



-19-
needs of the education sector (including primary, secondary, and tertiary). Through these
studies, the project would seek to leverage and coordinate other efforts to support the
development of sector policies and strategies. The studies and evaluations would provide
the foundations for the preparation of future Bank-assisted projects in the sector.
2.11   Areas of core policy studies include:
(a) internal and external needs of secondary education, including an evaluation
of the diversified Bachillerato, tracer studies of school leavers, labor market
analysis, and the implications of MERCOSUR for secondary education. This set
of analyses would allow for eventual revisions to the structure and curriculum of
the upper-secondary grades to bring it closer in line with the evolving skill needs of
the country'
(b) the education sector financing framework, including such issues as the
expansion of secondary school coverage, cost implications of the introduction of
compulsory and free basic education, and expenditure allocations between levels
and between the public and private sectors. This investigation would be carried
out jointly with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance in order to
plan for a rational expansion of educational opportunities and ensure an equitable
and efficient distribution of sector resources;
(c) status, organization and capacity of secondary school teachers, including
definition of classroom performance, future training needs, overall capacity of
teacher training institutions, and employment conditions. The recommendations
from these studies would be used to revise current teacher statutes, provide
feedback to future teacher training programs and identify policies and incentives
for improving teacher performance,
(d) technical support for defining education decentralization options. As such,
the project would finance the assistance of experts in the design and
implementation of decentralization strategies, bearing in mind that Paraguay has
recently begun to discuss the issue and many of the principal agents, such as
municipal and departmental governments, will require significant institutional
strengthening if they are to assume any responsibilities in the social sectors. This
support will provide a technical basis to the on-going political discussions around
decentralization, including information on international experience and assistance
in defining Paraguay's options over the medium and longer-terms; and
(e) evaluations of the impacts of the project, such as an evaluation of changes in
teaching practices in the classroom, the use and impact of textbooks at the
secondary level, and surveys on community participation in secondary education.
2.12  These core studies would be complemented with supplemental education research
proposals to be selected annually based on a competitive process to stimulate and



-20-
strengthen the broader research community. All studies would be contracted out to
institutions, firms or individual consultants, with the MEC providing key information and
personnel, where appropriate, to facilitate analysis and the definition of recommendations.
In addition, the project would finance dissemination activities, including seminars to
present and discuss research results and the dissemination of approximately 5,000 reports.
The dissemination strategies would be oriented to the following audiences: (a) regarding
the core policy studies, results will be incorporated into the on-going development of
proposals to reorient secondary education, with particular emphasis on key policy-makers
within MEC management, the Education Reform Council and other agencies (e.g.
Ministry of Finance, universities); (b) regarding project impact evaluations, results would
be fed directly into training materials for teachers and school managers as well as the
appropriate MEC departments and teacher training institutes; and (c) regarding
supplemental research activities, dissemination would seek to strengthen the broader
research community, such as universities, NGOs, and ISE_
2.13  The PCU would be responsible for the technical management, contracting and
dissemination of these studies. The PCU would receive guidance from an ad-hoc Policy
and Research Committee chaired by the PCU Executive Coordinator and comprised of
members of the Education Reform Council, high-level MIEC management and other
institutions as appropriate. This committee would: (a) coordinate activities with other
institutions and programs, such as the 1995 agreement with Harvard Institute for
International Development (HIID) to provide policy training to MEC; (b) define technical
criteria for the selection and monitoring of the studies and evaluations; (c) review terms of
reference and intermediate products to ensure consistency with these criteria; (d)
recommend strategies for dissemination and application of the main findings; and (e)
manage activities related to supplemental research proposals, including definition of
priority topics, screening of proposals and review of final products. Establishment of the
Research Committee, through a ministerial resolution, is a condition of effectiveness.
Component 2: Provision of Textbooks, Educational Materials and
Curricular Support
2.14  The objective of the component is to improve the quality of secondary education
through the provision of better textbooks, educational materials and library materials to
enrich the learning environment, to improve teaching content and, ultimately, to increase
academic achievement and internal efficiency. In keeping with the Education Reform
agenda, the third cycle of basic education would be the principal target of interventions.
The MEC is currently designing the extension of curriculum reforms initiated at the
primary level to grades 7 - 9. Given the importance of the curriculum redesign for the
orientation and content of textbooks and other educational materials to be developed
under the component, as a condition of disbursement against textbooks, the MEC will
prepare, validate and furnish to the Bank a new curriculum and lesson plans (guidelines)
for grades 7 - 9. To carry out this review, a team of national and international experts will



-21-
evaluate the proposed curriculum and assist the MEC in refining the final version based on
the on-going experience of implementation of the new curriculum in the earlier grades.
2.15  Provision of Textbooks. The project would support the production and
distribution of textbooks in the core skill areas of mathematics, Spanish, and natural
sciences for public school students in each year of the third cycle of basic education.
Based on enrollment projections, about 866,835 textbooks would be procured during the
project. The initial delivery of textbooks is scheduled for the 1998 academic year,
following the implementation plan of the revised curriculum. This schedule allows for
sufficient time to carry out preparation activities, including development of technical and
pedagogical specifications and selection criteria, carrying out of the public bidding
process, and incorporation of teacher preferences.
2.16  Building on the recent experience with procurement of textbooks at the primary
level, a two-step international bidding process is envisioned whereby the MEC would
solicit texts in the three main subject areas from the private editorial and publishing sector.
The project would support training for the technical staff of the Department of Curriculum
in the design and content of textbooks in order to improve the ability of the MEC to select
high-quality texts. Technical evaluation of bid proposals would be carried out by
committees comprised of Curriculum Department specialists, representatives from other
MEC departments, and teachers with classroom functions in the appropriate grades from
both rural and urban areas. These committees, one for each subject area, would use
selection criteria and checklists developed during project preparation and would ensure
conformity between the textbooks and the revised curriculum. Textbooks would be
delivered pre-packaged to the existing MEC storage facilities. The project would finance
the distribution of textbooks to schools. The mechanism to be used will be based on a
market study of private distribution services available at the national and local levels, and
an evaluation of the on-going experience of the MEC with direct distribution of primary
level textbooks using MEC and other public sector infrastructure and logistical support.
2.17  At the school-level, textbooks would be made available for each student's use and
distributed free of charge, in keeping with the Education Reform objectives for the basic
education cycle. However, to promote respect for textbooks, students who lose or ruin
their books would be responsible for the full cost of replacement. To address the issue of
longer-term sustainability of textbook financing after completion of the project, the project
would support the design of a mechanism to finance the acquisition and distribution of
textbooks once the project ends, including potential contributions from parents'
associations, the National Treasury and, eventually, support from regional and municipal
governments and NGOs. The project would support the definition of the legal,
administrative, financial and targeting aspects of this mechanism, which for the third cycle
of basic education is estimated to need on average US$600,000 per year. Parents
currently spend about US$2 per student per year on photocopies, or US$425,000 for all
public secondary school students, which would no longer be necessary with sufficient
supply of texts and educational materials.



-22-
2.18  Establishment of Classroom and School Libraries. The component would
support the establishment and upgrading of classroom and school libraries as a means of
building reading habits, enriching basic communications skills, stimulating interest in study
and research, and expanding access to basic information. The project would provide for
600 basic classroom libraries (80 volumes of texts, reference books, and specialized
books) and 200 upgraded libraries (up to fifty volumes to complement existing stocks) in
secondary schools. The project would finance training for school librarians, teachers and
students to promote the flil use, maintenance and updating of this resource.
2.19  Supply of Complementary Educational Materials. The component would also
finance a package of basic materials for 800 public secondary school to support the new
curriculum for the third cycle of basic education. Equipment purchases, particularly
related to the teaching of natural sciences, will be determined based on criteria of cost
(purchase, installation, maintenance, training of users, consumable inputs, and spare parts),
simplicity of design and operation, relevance to the curriculum, availability of local
materials, and flexibility in use.
2.20  Support for Departmental Pedagogical Units. This component would also
support basic teacher training reference materials and equipment for the MEC's eighteen
Departmental Pedagogical Units (Unidad Pedag6gica Departamental, UPD), including:
high-quality reference materials on curricula, teaching methods, evaluation methodology,
educational psychology and related topics, reference books in the core skill areas, samples
of teaching materials from other countries, and technical slides and videos. These
materials would reinforce close coordination between the provision of teaching inputs and
the training of teaching staff in their use.
2.21   Support to the Department of Curriculum. The project would provide training,
technical assistance and basic equipment to the Department of Curriculum to develop its
Learning Resources Division. This unit would functions as: (a) a normative body, to
establish, communicate, and monitor compliance with quality standards for texts and
educational materials in order to increase the quality of materials and to send signals to
textbook authors and publishers to improve materials available in the local market; (b) a
clearing house for dissemination of new materials and innovations, particularly to support
departments carrying out training activities; and (c) as a coordination mechanism between
UPDs, universities and teacher training institutes. The project would finance specialized
technical assistance and training in the areas of: general curriculum development, core skill
areas, development of selection criteria and quality standards for textbooks and
educational materials, methodologies for evaluating use and impact of educational
materials, and design and use of mini-laboratories for science experiments. Annex 5
provides further details of component implementation.
Component 3: Training for Teachers and School Managers
2.22  The general objectives of the component are to: (a) raise the quality and
effectiveness of teaching in the classroom; (b) promote the effective use of didactic



-23-
materials provided through the project; (c) stimulate more efficient and participatory
management of schools; and (d) strengthen the MEC's capacity to carry-out activities
related to in-service teacher training and training for school managers. The
implementation of the component would be based on a decentralized strategy oriented to
school- and locally-based training. The component has two areas of emphasis: teacher
training to improve instruction techniques, and training in school management with school
principals, supervisors and school-based community associations, as described in Annex 6.
2.23  Teacher Training. The main objectives of teacher training are to disseminate key
principles of the Educational Reform program, to implement curriculum reforms in grades
7-9, and to improve teaching techniques based on the new textbooks and other materials
to be provided. Teacher training would be delivered through school-based workshops.
The first stage would be closely related to the use of the educational materials to be
furnished under the project, including textbooks and teaching guides, library and other
educational materials. This training would be carried out in all 800 schools receiving these
inputs. This first experience will reinforce the schools' initiative to enroll in a second
phase of continuous training related to improving teaching methods and content
specifically in the areas of Spanish, mathematics and basic sciences. This second phase
would be targeted to schools which display priority needs for quality enhancements.
2.24  Training in School Management. The objective of training in school
management would be to promote efficient and effective management of secondary
schools in areas related to administration, organization of the learning environment, and
community participation. Training activities would apply to three groups:
(a) supervisors, pedagogic coordinators, evaluators and other specialized professionals at
the department or school zone level, (b) secondary school principals and their non-
teaching staff; and (c) members of parents' associations. For the first two groups, training
content would include: (a) orientation in the Education Reform objectives and
methodology; (b) curriculum content and its application in study plans and classroom
sessions; (c) school administration, including guidelines and procedures for managing
financial, human and physical resources; (d) optimal use, conservation and cost recovery
mechanisms for educational materials; and (e) guidelines and procedures for increasing the
participation of teachers, students and parents in school management.
2.25  Training and orientation for parents' associations would build on the existing
experience of parents' associations and would seek to involve the community more deeply
in the school environment. Part of the training would be focused on strengthening the
parents' associations themselves, through guidance in how to manage resources effectively
and other organizational issues. The training would also inform parents' associations about
the Education Reform program, goals of the education system, and information regarding
school performance. Finally, the training would seek to better integrate these associations
into the planning and monitoring functions of the school. Activities would include
information campaigns via mass media, assemblies with representatives of parents'
associations and workshops at the school level. The training activities would be organized
by a central team from key MEC departments and executed at the regional level by an



-24-
outreach team of social promoters. To this end, during project preparation a cooperation
agreement was signed with UNICEF for its technical support to develop training
materials, define selection criteria for promoters, and support dissemination.
2.26  The project would finance the production and distribution of training and
informational materials, technical assistance, seminars on selected topics to incorporate
national and international experience into the on-going training efforts, and equipment and
materials to strengthen the capacity to manage the program. The component would
provide for training of about 75 training specialists at the central and regional levels, about
240 secondary-level supervisors and specialized staff, and 1,110 school directors,
orientation in the application of the revised curriculum and use of educational materials to
about 10,000 teachers, upgrading of teaching skills in mathematics, science and Spanish
for about 6,000 secondary-level teachers, training of 2,400 members of parents'
associations, and preparation of materials to promote participation of over 150,000
parents in school activities.
2.27  Institutional Framework. The institutional framework for teacher training
divides functions among the national, regional and school levels. To implement the above
strategy, the MEC central-level agencies will be strengthened to play a more strategic role
in coordinating this multi-level system. This institutional framework is consistent with the
National System for Teacher Training (Sistema Nacional de Actualizaci6n Docente,
SINAD) currently under implementation with the IDB-financed primary education project.
As such, the Department of Teacher Training (Departamento de Formaci6n Docente -
DFD) and the Instituto Superior de Educaci6n (ISE) will be the national agencies
responsible for establishing guidelines and overseeing the execution of the training
program. A Technical Unit for Teacher Training (Unidad Tecnica de Actualizaci6n
Docente, UTAD) would be established within the DFD, directly responsible for the
design, execution and evaluation of the program. This central team would work with the
18 departmental training teams (UPDs) being conformed under SINAD and consisting of
a small number of high-level professionals. These UPDs would coordinate the training
activities at the regional level and identify local networks of training resource people
within educational institutions. Supervisors and school directors would be responsible for
organizing on-going school-based workshops to deliver this training. Training in school
management would use the same system, with the exception of the activities related to
parent's associations.
Component 4: Infrastructure Upgrading and Expansion
2.28  The availability and quality of school infrastructure are factors in low secondary
education quality and coverage. The cost estimates of infrastructure needs to the year
2000 are provided in Table 2.1. The component would finance rehabilitation, substitution
and the construction of new classrooms and support facilities, as well as provision of basic
furniture and equipment, focused principally on the lower secondary level (grades 7-9), in
keeping with the priorities of the Government. In those cases where the primary and
secondary levels share infrastructure, investments would be coordinated with the IDB



-25-
primary education project. Annex 7 presents details of the infrastructure program and
enrollment projections.
Table 2.1: Summary of Secondary Education Infrastructure Requirements
Investment Area                                                   USS million
Support Facilities for Existing Infrastructure                    43.7
Rehabilitation and Substitution of Existing Infrastructure         14.2
New Classroom Needs to 2000 Without Increase in Coverage           17.0
New Classroom Needs to 2000 With Increase in Coverage             64.8
Total Range  US$75 - 123m
2.29  Eligibility criteria for school selection include: (a) an increase in enrollment by at
least five percent between 1993-94 or other verification of sufficient student demand, (b)
property title in the name of either the central or municipal governments (or proof that the
title transfer process is underway), (c) existence of a formal parents' association
recognized by ministerial decree, (d) a student body from a low-income population, and
(e) physical conditions that allow for complementary works and expanded classroom
space. The school mapping exercise currently underway with IDB financing will update
this information. Target geographical resource allocations between departments are based
on the 1992 Census population share. Poverty targeting at the local level will be carried
out with assistance from a poverty map of unmet basic needs currently being developed by
the General Office of Statistics and Census.
2.30  Parents' associations would be actively involved in the infrastructure program
building on the already good results in this area. Contracting of civil works would be
carried out either through parents' associations or through private contractors, depending
on the scale of the investment and the economic and management requirements. Both
methods are routinely used by the MEC. To avoid creating disincentives for community
participation all infrastructure works would require cost sharing with parents'
associations, either in cash or in-kind contributions of labor and materials. Works to be
done on school are divided into two types: (a) 'pre-selected' secondary schools which
would include minor and major rehabilitation, substitution and construction of new
classrooms and other facilities (library, sanitary facilities and administrative office); and (b)
community-generated demands for construction of new classrooms on a 50-50 cost-
sharing arrangement as currently is the practice in the MEC. Regarding (a), individual
schools would be selected annually based on the priorities presented in para. 2.29 above.
Rehabilitation would be carried out first through cost-sharing with parents' associations.
Once completed, private contractors would be used to complete the major works in these
'model' schools. Parents' associations would share the costs of all exterior works (access
paths, drainage canals, perimeter walls). At present, maintenance of physical facilities is
the responsibility of the school level, carried out through school fees and community
contributions. MEC would provide an initial stock of minor equipment and supplies under
a cost sharing agreement with the school, supervised by the parents' associations. During
project preparation, a draft Maintenance Manual was developed to serve as a reference
guide for these associations.



-26-
2.31   For those works carried out by parents' associations, the Department of Social
Action would process requests, and the Department of School Construction would
evaluate the technical proposals and supervise construction activities. For each civil
works contract, a Cost-Sharing Agreement would be signed between the MEC and the
parent's association reflecting the total value of the work to be carried out, including the
specified community contributions. Administrative oversight and auditing would be
carried out by the MEC's Intemal Audit Department. During execution of works, support
from the community in labor and materials would be verified vis-a-vis the initial contract.
Technical supervision would be financed for each contract to provide quality control and
technical assistance during the construction period.
2.32  The proposed project would finance an estimated 600 new classrooms to be
constructed through parents' associations on the demand-driven system. The 144
institutional renovations of pre-selected schools would include rehabilitation and
construction of classrooms and other facilities.9 Basic furniture would be provided to all
rehabilitated and new classrooms. The overall investment would allow for an incremental
46,032 student places. Assuming two shifts, this investment would raise the enrollment
rate for grades 7-9 from 45 percent at present to 56 percent by the year 2000.
2.33   The MEC would ensure that incremental teachers' positions would be assigned to
any new classrooms constructed under the project. The natural growth of the system
(crecimiento vegetativo) is routinely budgeted for in the annual negotiations between the
Ministry of Finance and the MEC. To the extent that the project would finance a net
increase in coverage, these additional resources will need to be provided for through a
combination of internal efficiency and reallocation within the MEC budget and increased
resources allocated to the sector (para. 3.8). This component builds in flexibility in the
distribution of project resources between rehabilitation, substitution and new classroom
construction based on the absorptive capacity of the sector.
2.34  The project would also provide institutional strengthening to the MEC's School
Construction Department. Incremental technical support including a program manager,
technical specialists, and supervisors would be contracted in accordance with the work
load of the Department. In addition, technical assistance would be provided in
methodologies and mechanisms for micro-level planning of school infrastructure.
Component 5: Pilot Program for School-Based Innovations
2.35   The objective of this component is to promote greater local participation in finding
solutions for low school productivity. Grant-based financing for sub-projects would be
awarded on a competitive basis for those demand-driven initiatives designed to increase
learning and improve school performance. These initiatives would address educational
9 Standard designs and unit cost estimates were developed during project preparation. In addition, field
work carried out on a sample of 40 secondary schools generated estimates for average cost of
rehabilitation and substitution.



-27-
issues clearly related with students learning needs in the core curriculum subjects, building
on the on-going experience with similar programs in the Region (Chile, Brazil, Uruguay).
A major portion of resources would be reserved for innovative proposals from eligible
schools which display priority needs for quality enhancements, and a minor proportion of
resources for the remaining eligible schools. The support would be used for activities not
included under other project components.
2.36  As a pilot, this component would be implemented during the latter part of the
proposed project. The activities of the other components (school-based training,
provision of educational materials and curriculum development) would set the basis for the
preparation of the pilot. In 1997 and 1998 (the second and third year of the proposed
project) technical assistance would be contracted to assist in establishing the guidelines for
the operation of the pilot program, including: (a) institutional arrangements for execution;
(b) definition of eligible schools; (c) identification of sub-project award criteria; (d)
definition of mechanisms for disseminating information about the program; and (e) training
of those responsible for program execution. Execution of the first sub-projects would
begin in the second semester of 1998. It is expected that 200 schools would benefit
during the pilot program, receiving grants on average of US$4,000. The phasing in of this
program reflects implementation capacity considerations of the MEC and the sequencing
of key project activities. As a condition of disbursement for this program, operating
procedures and selection criteria would be presented to and agreed with the Bank.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Costs
3.1   Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at
US$40.5 million. Table 3.1 summarizes the estimated project costs by component. Annex
8 provides a further breakdown of project costs by expenditure category.
3.2   Base Costs. Base costs are estimated at US$35.7 million and are expressed in
November 1994 prices. Estimated costs of civil works and school furniture were based on
prevailing market prices. Estimated costs of equipment, vehicles and office furniture
were based on prices of similar imported or locally available items. Estimated costs of
teacher training, operating costs and educational, training, and dissemination materials
were based on recent price quotations, past experience, and expert opinion. Costs for
overseas and domestic training were based on prevailing standards. All recurrent costs
were based on current MEC budget items.
3.3   Contingencies. Total contingencies amount to US$4.9 million (12 percent of
total project costs), of which US$2.6 million for physical contingencies and US$2.3
million for price contingencies. Physical contingencies were applied to base costs as
follows: 10 percent for civil works; 5 percent for consulting services, equipment,



-28-
furniture, training, school-based grants, operating costs, educational, training, and
dissemination materials and recurrent costs; and 0 percent for vehicles. Price
contingencies were applied based on Bank estimates of foreign and local inflation rates.
Table 3.1:
Project Cost Summar  by Component
C.mponent.Local  Foreign    Total   Base Costs
...        .................................... ..........................................  gn..............................
A. Institutional Development                        US$ million                  
Educational Statistics System                0.46      0.30      0.75           2
Student Assessment System                    1.51      0.41      1.92           5
Educational Policy Studies and Analysis      0.36      0.20      0.56           2
Subtotal Institutional Development           2.32     0.91      3.23            9
B. Textbooks and Educational Materials         2.94     3.16      6.09           17
C. Development of Human Resources
Training for Teachers and Pedagogical Units  0.98      0.53      1.50           4
Training for Parent Associations             0.50      0.15      0.65           2
Subtotal Development of Human Resources      1.47     0.68      2.15            6
D. Infrastructure Improvements                15.56     4.90     20.46           57
E. School Based Innovation Sub-Projects        0.88     0.11      0.98            3
F. Project Coordination Unit                   1.72     0.55      2.28            6
G. PPF                                         0.09     0.35      0.45            1
Total BASELINE COSTS                          24.99     10.66    35.65          100
Physical Contingencies                       1.90      0.67      2.57           7
Price contingencies                          1.71      0.57      2.28           6
Total PROJECT COST                            28.59     11.90    40.49          113
of which: Taxes                                                   3.44
3.4    Foreign Exchange. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$11.9
million, or 29 percent of total project cost. Foreign exchange estimates were based on the
following percentages of base costs: 100 percent for international consulting contracts; 90
percent for library materials; 80 percent for equipment and vehicles; 70 percent for
fuirniture; 65 percent for non-printed materials; 50 percent for other printed materials; 33
percent for textbooks; 20 percent for civil works; 10 percent for training; and 0 percent
for local consultants, school-based grants, operating and recurrent costs.
3.5    Taxes and Duties. Local taxes and duties amount to approximately US$3.3
million, or 8 percent of total project costs. Locally procured goods and services are
subject to a value-added tax (VAT) of 10 percent, excluding computers and related
equipment (VAT-exempt). Import duties for computers are about 6 percent, 10 percent
for vehicles, 30 percent for furniture and, on average, 10 percent for other equipment.
Duties on textbooks and library/educational materials are zero.



-29-
B. Financing Plan
3.6    A proposed Bank loan of US$24.5 million would finance 60 percent of total
project costs, or 66 percent net of duties and taxes. Bank financing would cover 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures and 50 percent of local currency expenditures
net of taxes. Contributions from communities channeled through parents' associations
would amount to US$4. I million or 10 percent of total project costs. The Government
would finance the remaining US$11.9 million, or 30 percent of project costs. The
Government counterpart requirement represents about one percent of the current MEC
budget on an annualized basis. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government on the overall amount, budgeting and disbursement mechanisms to ensure
timely provision of counterpart resources. As a condition of effectiveness, the
Government would confirm the inclusion of the appropriate level of counterpart funding
within the 1996 national budget submitted for Congressional approval. The
Implementation Letter of the Loan Agreement includes annual estimates of counterpart
requirements to expedite the planning and approval of the annual government
contribution. The actual disbursement of counterpart funds would be confirmed through
the annual independent audits (para. 3.18) and monitored on an on-going basis with
support from the Bank's Facilitating Office in Asuncion. The loan would be a fixed-rate
US dollar single currency loan for up to 15 years. Each semester's aggregate
disbursements (Disbursed Amount) will have a grace period of three years and a final
maturity of nine years from the rate fixing date of that Disbursed Amount.' The interest
payment dates and rate fixing dates are June 15 and December 15, respectively. The
financing plan is presented in Table 3.2, with further details provided in Annex 8.
Table 3.2:
Local and Foreign by Financiers
..........................................................  .. ...ll~ ...............................................................
Local   Foreign         Total
Government                  11.9        0.0           11.9
Communities                  4.1        0.0            4.1
Proposed Bank Loan          12.6       11.9          24.5
Total                      28.6        11.9          40.5
C. Recurrent Costs
3.7    Recurrent costs related to project execution and incorporated within the financing
plan include: (a) incremental MEC salaries and overtime payments to support the
implementation of project activities (US$ 1.1 million); (b) maintenance of vehicles and
' The Borrower has selected fixed rate US dollar single currency loan terms in order to improve the
management of its external liabilities and reduce its risks. The choice of US dollar terms reflects the
importance of the US and US dollar-based contracts in Paraguay's international trade and Treasury
receipts. The Government considers a fixed interest rate appropriate for the diversification of its
interest rate risk and management of the repayment stream.



-30-
equipment (US$0.25 million); and (c) maintenance of civil works and school furniture
(US$0.50 million). None of these recurrent costs would be Bank-financed. Communities
would share the costs of school maintenance with the MEC, either through donated labor,
materials or financial contributions channeled through parents' organizations. The MEC
would fully finance the incremental salaries and maintenance of vehicles and equipment
through the counterpart financing requirements of the project.
3.8   In addition to the recurrent costs identified within the financing plan, during
negotiations, it was agreed that adequate teaching positions would be assigned by MEC to
any new classroom constructed under the project. The hiring of new teachers to staff
these classrooms would be financed from three potential sources: (a) additional resources
from the Treasury through the annual budget allocation process; (b) increased efficiency
within the education sector, in particular from incremental resources freed up through the
potential gains already identified within the personnel system; and (c) parents' financing of
teachers' salaries, on a temporary basis awaiting absorption within the MEC budget, as is
currently a common practice in many highly motivated but undeserved communities.
Based on the planned infrastructure program, the new classrooms to be constructed during
the proposed project would generate, by the year 2001, between US$5 million and US$1 I
million annually in operating costs (depending on number of shifts), equivalent to between
2 and 4 percent of the 1994 MEC budget. To ensure that classroom construction keeps
pace with the absorptive capacity of the training and financing of teachers, the program
would be reviewed annually as to the mix of rehabilitation, substitution and new classroom
construction. No later that September 30 of each year, the Government would present an
action plan for implementation during the following year, satisfactory to the Bank,
including a list of expected teaching positions to be assigned to new classrooms to be
constructed under the project during that year, and the amount of funds necessary to hire
these positions. In addition, the policy research on the education sector financing
framework (para. 2.11) to be undertaken during the project will update the recurrent cost
projections and reconfirm the absorptive capacity of the MEC for the investments planned
during the later years of project implementation.
D. Economic Analysis
3.9   At US$190, the total investment per student is in line with the scale of investment
per student in other Bank-financed secondary education projects in the Region, such as
Colombia (US$100 per student) and Jamaica (US$174), and generally lower than Bank-
financed investments in the higher-income LAC countries of Chile (US$317 per student)
and Argentina (US$355 weighted average of participating provinces). Although an
economic rate of return is generally not applicable to this type of project, empirical results
of the links between education and earnings do point to acceptable levels of both private
and social rates of return for individuals which complete their secondary education (para.
1.33). To date, this analysis has been limited to the Greater Asuncion area. Results from
the first national-level household survey to be carried out in 1995 will permit estimation of
these indicators on a national level.



-31-
3.10  In the absence of sufficient data and methodological limitations, economic
appraisal of the project has focused on unit-cost analysis. Within the infrastructure
program, unit costs have been optimized through: (a) the consideration of different
architectural models to assess the cost implications of such facilities as laboratories, multi-
use spaces and libraries'" and (b) the cost implications of alternative delivery systems.
Regarding the latter, past MEC experience revealed significant reductions in unit costs of
construction carried out through parents' associations compared with contracted firms,
although quality is an issue in some cases. Adjusting for appropriate technical support and
supervision, the unit costs of civil works to be carried out by parents' associations under
the project are estimated at two-thirds of the cost of using private contractors. Under the
teacher training program, the option of school-based workshops offers significant unit cost
savings from the alternative of large-scale displacement of teachers to centrally-based
training facilities as has been the practice in the past in Paraguay. For the investments in
textbooks and other teaching materials, analysis of existing market structure and unit costs
were used to estimate a cost per textbook of US$3.30. International competitive bidding
procedures will be used to procure textbooks and other educational materials in order to
promote cost control and expand access to lower-cost supplies outside of the limited
national market. Measures of cost effectiveness of these interventions are not available at
this time. The project would finance a student assessment system which will permit an
identification of key inputs and the benefits of selected investments in the future.
E. Procurement Arrangements
3.11   The PCU would be responsible for procurement under the project. Procurement
of civil works and goods subject to Bank financing would be carried out in accordance
writh Bank guidelines (January 1995), and for services, Bank guidelines for the use of
consultants (August 1981). Based on a January 1992 Bank review of Paraguayan
procurement practices, there are several discrepancies between local and Bank procedures.
In recent Bank-financed projects, these differences have been resolved by using standard
documents, provided that the Loan Agreement contained specific mention of each item,
for the procurement of civil works, goods and/or consulting services (see Annex 9). The
Loan Agreement, according to the Comptroller General of the Nation (CGN), prevails
over local legislation. Table 3.3 summarizes proposed procurement arrangements.
3.12  Procurement methods would require documents and procedures as follows:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would require the use of Bank-issued
standard bidding documents, which are mandatory. Under ICB, domestic
preference may be applied, in accordance with Bank guidelines for the
procurement of goods;
"Such analysis led to the decision to work with modular science kits for grades 7-9, consideration of
multi-use spaces only in selected cases and a preference for library and study space.



-32-
(b)      Limited International Bidding (LIB) would be carried out for procurement of
selected goods and equipment using Bank-issued standard ICB documents
modified as necessary for LIB,
Table 3:3
Procurement Arrangements /a
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method
International           National
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding (ICB)    Bidding                     Other    N.B.F   Total
(NCB)                /b             lc
Civil Works                                                           103.           8.8                       19.1
........................... (4:..)I  (35)    ,       (7.6)
Goods and Equipment                                4.5                  0.7          2.0                        7.1
Textbooks                                          2.7                               0.2                        2.9
............... 72. ( .   ........................   ........ft )   ....,..............  .....
Consulting Services                                                                  5.3                        5.3
.    .......(5 2)                     (5.2)
Training and Seminars                                                                 1.0                       1.0
...  (0 7) .               .   (0:7)
School-Based Innovation                                                              0.9                        0.9
Sub-Projects                       .            .... . ..(0 8)                                .     ..(0. 8)
PPF                                                                                 0.45                      0.45
(045)             ~~~(0.45)
......................................................................................    ..........  !!   . .............................   0..........
Operating  Costs                                                                      1.8                       1.8
(09~~~~             (0.9)
..................................................................................   ............. R D .... .......................... ...... 9.2 ....  .: 9.2.
Recurrent Costs                                         .                                            19         1.9
Total                                              7.2                11.0          20.4             1.9      40.5
(6.5)               (4.7)        (13.3)                    (24.5)
a' Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show allocations from Loan proceeds.
Figures may not sum due to rounding.
b/ For civil works, refers to lump-sum, fixed-price contracts and direct contracting with communities; for goods
and equipment, refers to national shopping or limited international bidding; for textbooks, refers to distribution
expenses to schools based on the distribution mechanism to be established in the procurement plan per para.
2.16; for consulting services, refers to procedures for contracting of services; for training and seminars, school-
based grants and operating costs, refers to not applicable to procurement except for purchases of minor supplies
where national shopping procedures would apply.
c/ N.B.F. = Not Bank financed.
(c)      National Competitive Bidding (NCB) would be carried out under procedures
agreed with the Bank, using approved standard bidding documents. The standard
documents were agreed upon at negotiations;



-33-
(d)   National and international shopping procedures for the procurement of goods
would be carried out according to procedures acceptable to the Bank which
require a minimum of three price quotations obtained from eligible suppliers;
(e)   Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts would be used for the procurement of small
works and awarded on the basis of comparison of at least three qualified
contractors;
(f)    Direct contracting with communities may be allowed in selected cases of small-
scale civil works executed by parents' associations with donated or self-financed
unskilled labor inputs or local materials, as stipulated in para. 3.15 of the January
1995 Guidelines. A standard contract between the MEC and parents' associations
for the contracting of such civil works was agreed upon at negotiations; and
(g)   Contracting of consultants would use the standard contract based on the Bank
Standard Form of Contract and the standard letter of invitation agreed upon at
negotiations;
(h)   A procurement plan, as contained in the project's Administrative Manual (para.
4.3), reviewed during negotiations, with annual adjustments to be carried out
through the Annual Implementation Plan (para. 4.4).
3.13  In addition to these general requirements, procurement subject to Bank financing would
comply with the following specifications per category:
(a)   Civil Works. For the contracting of civil works, the following thresholds would
apply per amount of contract: (i) above US$2 million - ICB, although because of
the small size of civil works contracts, relatively dispersed nature of the schools
affected, and projected annual amounts of the construction program, no individual
contracts are expected over US$2 million; (ii) more that US$75,000 and less than
US$2 million - NCB, with a total expected amount of US$10.3 million
representing 54 percent of the civil works contracts to be financed through the
proposed project; (iii) contracts US$75,000 or less would be lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified
contractors; and (iv) for contracts US$25,000 or less (including value of
community contribution), direct contracting through parents' associations may be
allowed. The aggregate limit for civil works procured through lump-sum, fixed-
price contracts would be US$0.5 million. The aggregate limit for civil works
procured through direct contracting would be US$8.3 million.
(b)   Textbooks. The procurement of textbooks would be carried out through ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines and using Bank-issued Standard Bidding
Documents for Textbooks. A two-stage process would be used. First, bidding
documents will be issued, requesting technical proposals only. Second, a short list
of qualifying bidders will be invited to submit new technical and economic



-34-
proposals, revised according to the recommendations of the technical evaluation.
The contract would include pre-packaged delivery to the MEC's warehouse.
Delivery expenses to the school-level would be procured as operating costs in the
case of distribution through the existing MEC and parents' association channels or
through competitively contracted private services (para. 2.16).
(c)   Goods and Equipment. 12 Contracts valued at more than US$250,000 per
contract would be awarded through ICB, including school furniture (US$1.8
million), science kits (US$1.35 million) and library materials (US$1.35 million).
To ensure effective cost control and access to competition by smaller-scale
national producers, the ICB for school furniture would be structured in packages
of regional lots. NCB procedures would be used for contracts estimated to cost
US$250,000 or less but more than US$50,000, up to an aggregate limit of US$0.7
million. National and international shopping procedures would apply for all
contracts valued at US$50,000 or less, up to an aggregate limit of US$1.3 million.
For vehicles (US$0.21 million) and for computer-related equipment and
photocopiers (US$0.45 million) in packages of over US$50,000, limited
international bidding (LIB) procedures would apply. For packages estimated to
cost US$50,000 or less, national shopping procedures would be used, with the
aggregate limit included above.
(d)   School-Based Innovation Sub-Projects. Under a pilot program, grant financing
(average size US$4,000) would be awarded to schools presenting winning
proposals in project competitions. Any equipment and materials to be purchased
per sub-project estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$900,000, for which at least three
price quotations cannot be obtained, may be procured by direct contracting in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(e)   Categories Not Applicable to Procurement Arrangements. Standard
procurement arrangements would not apply to operating expenses and training
costs (rent, utilities, travel, per diems, communications, etc. though any minor
office and training supplies would be purchased using shopping procedures), nor
would they apply to expenditures not financed by the Bank.
3.14  Prior Review. Prior review would be required for: (a) all contracts procured
through ICB and LIB; and (b) all NCB contracts for goods and works. About 54 percent
of the total estimated value of civil works and 88 percent of goods and equipment
(including textbooks) would be subject to Bank prior review. The Bank requires a no
objection on all terms of reference for consulting services. Prior review of candidates and
hiring procedures would apply to contracts with firms for US$20,000 or more and
contracts with individuals for US$5,000 or more. In addition, the Bank requires prior
12 Includes vehicles, computer equipment, fiurniture (school and office), education and training materials,
and other equipment. See Annex 9 for details on expected distribution of goods and equipment by
procurement method.



-35-
review of all PCU positions. All other contracts would be subject to post-review by the
Bank in the course of supervision. School-based grants, operating costs and training
expenditures are not subject to prior review. Nonetheless, to ensure effective use of these
categories of financing, the Annual Implementation Plan (para. 4.5) would include a
schedule of planned training activities and a quarterly budget for operating costs. Annex 9
presents a summary table of procurement arrangements.
F. Disbursements and Accounts
3.15  Loan proceeds are expected to be disbursed (in accordance with the schedule
shown in Annex 10) over five years, which is shorter than the average for Paraguay (7.5
years) and for education projects in the LAC region (7.5 years). This shorter than usual
disbursement period, in keeping with the consensus at the IEPS stage, reflects: (a)
intentional project design focused on keeping project objectives modest and building the
analytical, policy and implementation foundations for future Bank support to selected
policy initiatives and new investment areas, (b) creation of implementation capacity during
project preparation to permit more dynamic start-up than is usual for projects in Paraguay;
and (c) the high Government priority given the education sector and the project. Based on
recent Bank experience with projects approved in Paraguay, including the Congressional
ratification process, project effectiveness is expected for May 31, 1996, which would
result in a project completion date of June 30, 2001 and a closing date of December 31,
2001. Table 3.4 shows the estimated Bank loan disbursement schedule and Table 3.5 the
allocation and disbursement categories for Loan proceeds.
Table 3:4
Disbursement Forecast (US$ milli n)
Bank Fiscal Year      FY96      FY97      FY98      FY99    FY00    FY01
Annual                  1.1        4.5      7.8        4.8      4.4      1.9
Cumulative              1.1        5.6     13.4       18.2    22.6    24.5
3.16  Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOE)
for all expenses except those covered by contracts requiring prior Bank review. Full
documentation would therefore be required of: (a) civil works contracts over US$75,000,
(b) goods and equipment (including textbooks) contracts over US$50,000, and (c)
consultant service contracts with firms over US$20,000 and individuals over US$5,000.
Additionally, all expenditures made on operating costs, training and school-based grants
would be made against SOEs. Documentation of these expenditures would not be
submitted to the Bank but instead retained by the PCU for periodic inspection by Bank
staff and for audit purposes.
3.17  Special Account. To ensure efficient and timely project implementation, the
Borrower would open a Special Account in the Central Bank of Paraguay, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation to this account would
be US$1.6 million, equal to the average of four months' eligible expenditures (net of
anticipated direct payments). An initial deposit of up to US$500,000 will be made



-36-
available and the full amount of the authorized allocation will be released when
disbursements reach a level of US$2 million. Funds from the account will finance only the
Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The Bank will replenish the Special Account as
requested upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for
financing out of the account.
Table 3:5 Allocation of IBRD Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated    Percent of Expenditures to be Financed by
Categories            (US$ Equivalent)  IBRD
Civil Works                   7,500,000 40 percent of total expenditures
Goods and Equipment           5,690,000  100 percent of foreign and ex-factory local
expenditures, and 80 percent of local
_expenditures for other items procured locally.
Textbooks                     2,900,000  100 percent of foreign and ex-factory local
expenditures, and 80 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
Consulting Services:
a. for PCU                   1,540,000  100 percent of total expenditures excluding
b. Technical Assistance      2,830,000  taxes
to MEC
Training                        680,000  75 percent of total expenditures
School-Based Innovation         720,000  80 percent of total expenditures
Sub-Projects
Operating Costs                 840,000  50 percent of total expenditures
PPF Repayment                   450,000
Unallocated                   1,350,000
Total                J       24,500,000 J
G. Audits
3.18  The project would finance an independent auditor with qualifications acceptable to
the Bank to: (a) audit all accounts, SOEs and Special Accounts; (b) apply auditing
standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, (c) carry out its auditing work in a
timely manner so that an annual report would be presented no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year; and (d) render an audit opinion or the reasons why such an
opinion cannot be rendered. With respect to SOEs, the auditors' reports would include an
opinion on the methods employed in compiling the SOEs, the relevance of supporting
documents, their eligibility for financing with loan proceeds, and the standards of record-
keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The MEC would also contract
independent physical audits of civil works and major purchases of goods. Draft terms of
reference for the independent financial audits were presented at negotiations, and
assurances obtained that the auditing arrangements would conform with these terms.



-37-
4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Status of Preparation
4.1   The proposed project was initially identified in May 1992. Due to institutional
capacity constraints on initiating both the primary and secondary education projects at the
same time, it was agreed to sequence processing, with the five-year primary education
project coming on stream in mid- 1994. After the change in government, the proposed
project objectives and content were reconfirmed with the new MEC authorities in
September 1993 and preparation activities began.
4.2   Preparation has been supported through a PHRD Japanese Grant to finance project
development in the social sectors in Paraguay, along with a US$450,000 advance from the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Key activities include: (a) recruitment of the core PCU
staff and training in Bank administrative and procurement procedures; (b) seminars and
workshops to disseminate international experience, particularly in the areas of education
decentralization, student assessment systems and educational statistics; (c) regional study
trips; (d) technical assistance in the design of key project components; (e) surveys and
assessments of education aspects (e.g., physical infrastructure needs, status of secondary-
level teachers, supply of library and teaching materials); and (f) technical assistance and
training to validate the proposed curriculum revisions for grades 7 -9.
B. Project Management
4 3   Organization and Management. The MEC would be responsible for overall
project planning and execution. A PCU, reporting directly to the Minister, would
coordinate all project activities and ensure that the project's execution is carried out in
accordance with established guidelines, procedures and agreed targets. A description of
the PCU structure and main functions is contained in Annex 11. An Administrative
Manual sets forth the functions and structure of the PCU, proposed staffing,
administrative and financial procedures, procurement arrangements and procurement plan,
and reporting and auditing requirements. A draft version of the Administrative Manual
was reviewed during appraisal and a revised version was presented prior to negotiations.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed its assurance that the PCU will be staffed
with high-caliber personnel satisfactory to the Bank, and that no changes to the Manual
would be made without prior Bank consultation.
4.4   Implementation Strategy. During preparation, a Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) was prepared by the Government, with inter-departmental MEC working groups
established for each component and sub-component, under the coordination of the PCU.
The PIP has been encoded in an Operational Manual which specifies objectives, activities,
targets and institutional arrangements for each area of intervention of the proposed
project. A draft of the Operational Manual was reviewed during appraisal and a revised



-38-
version was presented prior to negotiations. MEC's approval of both the Administrative
Manual and the Operational Manual are conditions of effectiveness.
4.5   To allow for adjustments in project implementation, the PCU would be responsible
for furnishing to the Bank an Annual Implementation Plan (Plan Operativo Anuai), no
later than March I of each year (prior to the commencement of the academic year) in a
content agreed upon at negotiations, and to include. (a) description of activities and
implementation targets on a quarterly basis for each component and sub-component of the
project, (b) identification of critical dates for specific activities, (c) areas of cooperation
with other programs related to the proposed project, (d) revised disbursement estimate
and quarterly budget by source and use of funds, and (e) the annual procurement schedule.
The presentation of the first year plan is a condition of effectiveness.
4.6   An Administrative and Procurement Review would be held in Washington during
the second year of project execution among PCU, Government and Bank staff to review
the legal, procurement and administrative aspects of project implementation. This review
process would assess the experience with procurement arrangements, discuss the findings
of the first independent financial and physical audit(s), and analyze the project's
disbursement profile and arrangements, including counterpart funds. The scope and
timing of this review was agreed upon at negotiations.
C. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
4.7   Monitoring and Evaluation. Overall monitoring and evaluation of the proposed
project would be the responsibility of the PCU. Specific requirements include:
(a) preparation of annual reports to include: (i) a summary of the completion of
implementation targets and description of the principal activities carried out; (ii)
explanation of those planned activities and targets not achieved; (iii) identification of
critical areas of project implementation, (iv) coordination with other agencies and
programs with relation to the proposed project; (v) performance of monitoring and impact
indicators; (vi) a financial report, including a summary of expenditures, analysis of the
financial management of the project and availability of counterpart funds; (vii) a
procurement report, including completion of the procurement plan and identification of
any issues regarding procurement arrangements; (viii) analysis of PCU performance; and
(ix) recommendations for future actions, to be furnished to the Bank no later than
February 15 for the prior year, as agreed at negotiations; (b) submission of Annual
Implementation Plans (para. 4.5); (c) the timely contracting of the project impact
evaluation studies; and (d) preparation of a Project Completion Report that would be
submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the closing date of the Loan.
4.8   Based on the Operational Manual, Annex 12 presents a summary of the project's
implementation schedule as well as key sector and project performance indicators. The
sector indicators would measure efficiency, quality and coverage in order to track overall
improvements in secondary education. Other indicators would assess the project impacts



-39-
on the institutional capacity of the MEC and the quality of teaching and school
management practices at both the school and classroom levels, where appropriate.
4.9   Mid-Term Review. A joint Bank-Government Mid-Term Review would be
carried out no later than 34 months after the date of project effectiveness, on the basis of
an independent assessment to be carried out with Bank approval of the terms of reference,
as agreed upon at negotiations.
4.10  Bank Supervision. Bank supervision requirements and schedule are presented in
Annex 13. The Bank would carry out at least two supervision missions per year as well as
the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.9). In addition, a Project Launch Workshop would be held
close to the date of project effectiveness to ensure all operational procedures are in place,
present the final outlines of the proposed project to key stakeholders in education and the
general public, and confirm the arrangements and activities presented in the first year
Annual Implementation Plan (para. 4.5).
5. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Expected Benefits
5.1   The main benefits to be realized during implementation of the proposed project
are: (a) improvement in the quality of the learning process through provision of better
learning tools, teaching practices, and physical facilities; (b) partial satisfaction of the
social demands for access to lower secondary schools, particularly from low-income urban
and rural areas; and (c) increased understanding of sector and student performance, and
the resulting enhanced capacity of the MEC to monitor and design sector policies. In the
longer-term, this should contribute to a more productive and trainable workforce, increase
the internal efficiency of the system, create a more dynamic and better-managed school
setting, and establish the analytical foundations of evolving sector policies and strategies.
5.2   Poverty Impacts. Access to and improved quality of secondary education offers
to increase the earnings potential and "trainability" of secondary school students and
thereby improve individuals' chances of rising out of poverty. Although not included in
the Program of Targeted Interventions due to the general profile of the secondary school
population, eligibility criteria for the infrastructure component target schools with a low-
income student population (para. 2.29).
B. Expected Risks and Safeguards
5.3   Risks of administrative difficulties which hamper efficient procurement and
disbursement and slow project execution, a common problem in Paraguay, would be
minimized through the application of a PCU Administrative Manual to clearly define



-40-
administrative and procurement procedures, upfront agreement on procurement
procedures and documents prior to implementation, and an Administrative and
Procurement Review to address issues arising during implementation. Risks of
inconsistency between the primary and secondary levels would be addressed through the
incorporation of the lower years of secondary education into the basic education cycle and
the implementation of the revised curriculum in a phased-in manner. On the operational
level, the proposed project would be coordinated closely with the IDB-financed
investment at the primary level. The risk of overload of the implementation capacity of
the MEC would be mitigated through the preparation of an Operational Manual specifying
implementation responsibilities and timelines, technical assistance and training to increase
MEC capacity and the incorporation of flexibility into project execution through the
preparation of Annual Implementation Plans. In addition, key activities will be sub-
contracted outside of the MEC or phased in as pilot activities. The risks related to
counterpartfinancing have been addressed through agreement on counterpart amounts
and disbursement mechanisms, as well as incentives for community participation in
education investments. The Bank's Asuncion Office in Asuncion, along with the annual
Country Implementation Reviews, will monitor this issue.
5.4   Environmental Risks. The project is expected to have no significant
enviromnental impacts. An environmental rating of "C" is assigned.
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.1   Prior to negotiations, the Government presented for the Bank's review:
(a)   the cooperation agreement between the PCUs of the IDB-financed Primary
Education Project and that of the proposed project, authorized by the
Minister's Office (para. 1.45);
(b)   the revised version of the Administrative Manual (para. 4.3), including
draft TOR for independent financial audits (para. 3.18); and
(c)   the revised version of the Operational Manual (para.4.4).
6.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government on:
(a)   the overall amount, budgeting and disbursement mechanisms to ensure
timely provision of counterpart resources, including inclusion of the
required counterpart amount in the proposed 1996 budget (para. 3.6);
(b)   independent auditing arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.18);



-41-
(c)   that the PCU will be staffed with high-caliber personnel satisfactory to the
Bank, and that no changes in the Administrative Manual would be made
without prior Bank consultation (para. 4.3); and
(d)   that an annual progress report and an Annual Implementation Plan (Plan
Operativo Anual) would be furnished to the Bank no later than February
15 and March 1 of each year, respectively (paras. 4.5 and 4.7).
6.3  In addition, agreement was reached on:
(a)   the mechanism for providing teaching positions to new classrooms (para.
3.8);
(b)   procurement procedures, including: prototype NCB documents to be used
in procurement of civil works and goods (para. 3.12); use of a standard
contract based on the Bank Standard Form of Contract (May 1993) (para.
3.12); and prior review arrangements (para. 3.14); and
(c)   the scope and timing of: (i) the Administrative and Procurement Review
(para. 4.6); and (ii) the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.9).
6.4   The conditions of loan effectiveness would be:
(a)   establishment of the Research Committee by ministerial resolution,
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.13);
(b)   presentation of the budget proposal for the MEC for 1996 submitted to
Congress, including the counterpart funds necessary to carry out the
project during its first year (para. 3.6);
(c)   the presentation of the first Annual Implementation Plan, satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 4.5); and
(d)   presentation of the Administrative Manual and Operational Manual duly
approved by the MEC (para 4.4).
6.5   As a condition of disbursement for the School-Based Innovation Grants
program, the operating procedures and selection criteria would be presented to and agreed
with the Bank (para. 2.36). A condition of disbursement against textbook purchases
and distribution would be that the MEC prepare, validate and furnish to the Bank a new
curriculum and lesson plans (guidelines) for grades 7 - 9 (para. 2.14).
B. Recommendation
6.6   Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$24.5 million to the Republic of Paraguay.






ANNEXES






- 42 -
Annex 1
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Structure of the Paraguayan Education System
Former Education System                                          Current Education Svstem
Age                                                                           Agc
24                                                               H            23                                                   H
Vocational         Teacher           Univenity         I                        Higher Education                         I
and              Training          (4- 6 yeas)       G                       (not spccifled)                           G
Technical         (2. -3 yeac)                        H                                                                  H
Truining                                              E                                                                  E
R                                                                 R
23                                                                            22
22                                                               E            21                                                   E
21                                                               D            20                                                   D
20                                                                            19
19                                                                            is
is          Bach=er2to                                                        17        Bachillerato  )
E 
Humanistic and Science Cc                                                    Humanisc A Science                  D
Comimercial                                   0 R                          Commercial
9- Techzcal                                    N                           - Technical
D
17                                                                            16                                                   E
16                                                                            15SH                                                 D
] I         Basic Cyce n     Basic General Educaon               E
Basic Teclnucal Educauon            D
14                                                                            14                                                   B
3rd Cydle                                 A
(7. L 9Grades)                            S
I
C
13                                                                            1 3
12
1 2         2nd Cycle                                            7            I1I        2nd Cycle                                 E
(4, .56 Grades)                                    R                      (4.5,6 Grades)                             D
A
R
y
II                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
10                                                                            9
9          Ist Cycle.- (1. 2. 3 Grades)                                       a          13t Cycle- (1.2.3 Grades)
7                                                                             6
6          Pue-school                                            P5                     3rd Level - Pre-School
r                                                                 T
R                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~A
NI                                               ~~~~~~~~~~L
R                                                                 E
S         landergarien                                                        4         2nd Level - KiClderparten
4                                                                             3
3         Daycame Center                                                      2         ist Level - Motaae
21



- 43 -                                                 Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Selected Educational Statistics
Comparative Education Indicators
Illiterate Population                                       Enrallment Ratios
as % of 15 + (1990)            Primary                         Secondarv                        Tertiarv
Total    Female      1970      1980      1991       1970       1980      1991       1970      1979      1991
Paraguay            10        12       109        102       109         17         26        30         4          7         8
Other Latin American Countries
Argenina             5         5       105        116       107         44        56        NA         22         23        43
Bolivia            23         29        76        84         85         24        36         34        13       NA          23
Brazil              19        20        82         93       106         26        32         39        12         12        12
Chile                7         7       107        117        98         39         55        72        13         12        23
Colombia            13        14        108       128       111         25         46        55        10         11        14
Costa Rica           7         7       110        108       103         28        48         43        23         26        28
Mexico             13         15       104        120       114         22        37         55        14         15        15
Peru                15        21       107        112       126         31        56         70        19         16        36
Uruguay             4          4       112        105       108         59         60        84        18         16        32
Venezuela           8         11        94        104        99         33        39         34        21         21        30
Middle-income Countries
Lower Middheincome
Averege         25w-         32w       93w       98w       104w       32w        33w        SSw       13w       lOw        18w
Upper Middle-income
Average           1Sw        18w       94w      104w      lOSw        32w        48w        54w       14w       13w        19w
Cameroon           46         57         89       104       101          7         18        28          2         1          3
Cote d'lvoire      46         60         58        78        69          9         17        24          3         2        NA
Korea                4         7        103       107       107         42         85        88         16        14         40
Malaysia            22        30         87        92        93         34         53        58          4         3          7
Morocco            51         62         52        76        66         13         24        28          6         4         10
Philppin-a          10        11        108       110       110         46         63        74         28        25         28
Poland             NA         NA        101       100        98         62         77        83         18        18         22
Sengal             62         75         41        44        69         10         10         16         3         3          3
ThiMnd               7        10         83        96       113         17         29        33         13        13         16
Source:   World Development Aeport 1983 and 1994
( * ) w means weighted averages



- 44 -                                                                Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Selected Educational Statistics
Secondary Enrollmnent by Grade in Urban and Rural Areas (1981 - 1993)
1581                                               1963                            Efsar.w GOV."
Total    LJbar,                                    Total     U.bl                  8V41                T@tla    WV9b       R
G odo        Num        N              %    Pd..bw         %    Aatobw    Nto",1 mr       %    N.,t %,                    %        9.       %
TotW        124.4B1    116530        100      7951       100   206.871    183260         100     26271        100      163%    I1%        330%
F.nT         33.581      30350         26     3231        41    60 359      50173         20     1013          4 1     149%     165%      315%
Sond        25.794      23669         20     2125         27    45.170     38719         20      6452         24      15%    164%        W%
T1WI         21.311      19645         17     '486         18    35.250     30857         17      4333         17      145%     15        300%
Fawnm         17.9S55    17337         15      s18          a    29.337     26735         15      2602          9      149%     1S4%      421%
F."           1 . 005    13677         12      325         A    22.092      20J83         11      1604          5      145%     150%      419%
S.alh        11.635      11652         10       163         2    17.13      16579          9      1034          4      140%     142%      569%
So.cs;             MPASrv 0f EOAow
D.owln,,nt of  JcMItoOI Ptwwo.
EnrdoUmnnt by Grade in 1981
35000
30000 
25000 4-
20000                                             _
15000-                         -                                         _
1             2            3             4             5              a
Enrodlm   by Grade in 1993
60000 -
500001         _         _         _         _        __                       _
40000 
*0000-
20000 -_________
1           2            3          4            6            6
Cr_dp



Etarollsitent by Grade mid by Gende-
Primilary 1nd11 Seconldary Edtucation
1993
Primary Education                                                  Secondary Education
Grades           1         2        3         4         5        6         1         2         3        4         5         6
Tolal      180,302   151,735   141.773   122,559   103,092    05.026    60,359   45,170    35,250    29.307    22,092    17,613
Male       97,745    79,380    73,683    63,394    62.313    42,308    30.509    22,472    17.298    14.190  9,931     7.773
Female     90.637    72,355    68,090    59,165    50,779   42,638    29.050    22.698    17,952    15.197    12,161   9,040          En
I,
Enrollmenit by Grade                                                               a
12                                                                                                                C 
11                                     .                                                                          3:
10 
.      7      -                 -                                                             * EFemale E-rol inen   C
6                                           - - .  ,p   _ ___ ___ ___
-  ,WEH Male Enrolnllent                                                                                       3
4            _             .                     ,; --  1                                  (.1 Total Ciirolin)cnt  I
3                  -                                                                                             0
2    _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ __   =_       -   -        _ -   _ _  _ 
2.__
0    20,000  40,000  60,000  80.000 100,000 120,000 140.000 160,000 180,000 200,000
Enroflrnent
Source:   Ministry of Education
Department of Eductional Planning
1A



- 46 -
Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Primary Enrollment by Public and Private Sector
1985, 1989, and 1993
Year                     1985                 1989                   1993
No.                  No.          %         No.        h
Total            570,775    100.0     656,877      100.0    792,567    100.0
Public          492,472    86.3     553.048       85.0     688,209      86.8
Private          78,303    13.6      98,829       15.0      104,358     13.2
Source:    Ministry of Educatioa, Departmeat of Educational PlaI
Secondary Enrollment by Public and Private Sector
1984, 1989, and 1993
Year                    1984                  1989                   1993
No.        X         No.          %         No.        g
Total             149,019   100.0     155,434      100.0    212,656      100.0
Public          113,989    76.5      118,044      75.9      167,262     78.7
Private          35,030    23.5      37,390       24.1      45,394      21.3
Source:    Ministry of Education, Department of Educational Planning



- 47 -                                   Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Reteotion Rate in Secondary Education by Region
1987 - 1992
Deparunent     |          Retention Rawe
Urban Areas    Rural Arcas
Total                       47               14
Asuncion                    65
Concepcion                  31               4
San Pedro                   26               16
Coroillera                  39               27
Guaira                     44                8
Caaguazu                   37                12
Caazapa                    27                34
Itapua                      37               18
Misiones                    34               3
Paraguari                  76               21
Alto Parana                39                19
Central                     44               10
Neembucu                    49
mnamabay                    31
Canindeyu                   27               23
Sources: Ministry of Education. Department of Educational Planning
Retention Rate by Track in Urban and Rural Areas
Secondary Education
1990 - 1992
Total    Urban    Rural
Basic Cycle
General                    73%      78        45
Technical                  58       58         -
Bachillerato
Humanisoc                  71       74        40
Commercial                 75       76        35
Technicil                  74        74
Source: Ministry of Education. Department of Educational Planning



- 48 -                           Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Enrollment of Primary Teacher Training
1993
Total    1st Yr.   2nd Yr.
Total            4,515      2,324      2,191
Male            1,033        610       423
Female          3,482      1,714     1,768
Source:      Ministry of Education
Department of Education Planning
,2                          U Female
Enrollment
i  Male
0   1,000 2,000 3,000      Enrollment
Enrollment         * Total
Enrollment of Secondary Teacher Training
1993
Total    1st Yr.   2nd Yr.   3rd Yr
Total         1,020       367        501        152
Male           348       123        183        42
Female         672       244        318       110
Source:   Ministry of Eduoetion
Department of Education Planning
3
0 
- 2                                *- -  lX Female Enrollment
Male Enrollment
0       200      400       600   * Total Enrollment
Enrollment



- 49 -                           Annex 2
PARAGUAY -
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Number of Schools by Public and Private Sectors
Secondary Education
1993
Region           Total     Public    Private  Parochial
Schools
Total               966        683       242        41
Asuncion            166         76        78         12
Concepcion           45         35         5          5
San Pedro            75         60        14          1
Coordillera          49        47          2
Guaira               37        32          1         4
Caaguazu             78        59         13         6
Caarapia             31        29          2
Itapua               65        53         11          1
Misiones             35         34                    1
Paraguari            51        48          3
Alto Parana          69         33        30         6
Central             162         86        74          2
Neembucu             26         25                    1
Amambay              17         16         1
Canindeyu            20         16         3          1
Pte Hayes            25         24                    1
Alto Paraguay         7          7
Boqueron              8          3         5
Source:       Ministry of Education
Department of Educational Planning



Annex 2
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Number of Secondary Schools by Terminal Grade
Secondary Educadon
1992
Grades
Total        1         2          3          4         5         6
Total            916         57        53        165        66         40       529
Urban           663        20         23        83         41        28       460
Rural           247        37         30        82         25        12        61
Source:    Ministry of Education
Department of Educational Planning



- 51 -                                                    Annex 3
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Education - Financial and Economic Data
Comparauve Indicacwr osoiEducao"nI SpenAuag
Percent
GN?
AenLaw-             5I .
Bolivia             Z.7
Brazil,             4.6
ChilC                3
Colombia            2.3
Ecuador             2.6
Guyana              4.7
Paruy               1.9
pcnz               3.5
Sunnamc-            8.3
Urupisy             3. 1
Vencz3cla          4.3
DA for 1991. LTUNESCO         YcarbooiL 1993)
'CO-DI w-th as-uht halw d- for ygxi aher Ihi 1991.
CONIpGr.iuv had.star of EdmUomw  S_adwq 191"
.6
z                                                         
- ~ ~     ~     ~       _           'YS._                _    ___fi



-52 -                                                 Annex 3
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Inprovement Project
Share of MEC Budget in GDP and Gov't Budget 1982-1993
Yean    Shut MECICo Sb-sof %4EClCDP
1982        13.9         1.8
1983        15.1         1.7
1984        13.6         1.4
1985        14.3         1.3
1986        14.2         1.1
1987        14.3         1.1
1988        11.7        0.97
1989        10.3         1.2
1990         8.9         1.2
1991         9.9         1.9
1992        12.4         2.6
1993        16.9         2.9
Share of MJEC Budget in GDP and Gov't Budget 1982-1993
14
i2 '
10 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- --  sh. MEro'Gt
U                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a  O(mMEOOop
4.
0*
t9Q 1983 9ISS   193  196  I97  I9M  199  1990  1991  1"2  1I93
Yers



Annex 3
- 53 -
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Education - Financial and Economic Data
Coupuve Lndican oi4c aosl Spsdaing
Pecn
GMP
An"sIan       1.5
Boiivia       2.7
BnUzii        .6
Chile          3
Colombia      2.3
Ecuador       2.6
u"y,,         4.7
Paguy         1.9
Peru*         3.5
Swume          .3
Unsuy         3.1
Ven-uela      4.3
DeAfor 1991. (UNESCO Sl_anm Yurbeat 1993)
-CoAm  ,tdh usais aaw ddi for yon obw dm 199.
C.m.gu s. ndIa at EwcUmeralm SpsadW4 1991
1.
-. ilull"  . . ...



- 54 -
Annex 3
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Monthly Salaries of Teachers bv Level. MEC
19801994
Cwm: Gs                                          C.iaat 1"0
Yearn      Primarv   Seco,da2rv              Primarv    Secondarv  Growth Rate
1980          15175       32000                    15175       32000
1981          15675       36800                    13750       31659         -1.1
1982          18000       43200                  14790.5       35381         11.8
1983          19800       48000                  14337.4       34424         -2.7
1984          19800       48000                  11920.5       27056        -21.4
1985          22800       56000                  10962.9       25214         -6.8
1986          25300       65600                   9233.3       22451          -11
1987          34200       88640                  10247.2       23275          3.7
1988          41800      104000                  10180.2       21818         -6.3
1989          78800      196800                  15234.4       31462         44.2
1990         120300      288000                  16831.1       33783          7.4
1991         150500      416000                  16943.9       39094         15.7
1992         244900      499600                  2527S.7       40631          3.9
1993            n.a.     704000                      n.a.
1994            n.a.     848000                      n.a.
Annual Averaige                                                                2.01%
!CaIuiIu 1mm _m&  x Id ini m sep LS mdm
SwamI192 tmw  Os S1 _15.  1 119 MC           f F_
.-AsOidC(r in,Gq m cnswm a dmWIM OP PdWa lxI GOP rte. 0ma 6m CE.ZA 4U p. 1r.
Monthv Salaries of Teachers Bv Level, MEC in Constant Gs (1980)
45000 r
40000        _
35000:         ..- 
o 30000     -
e25000;                                            
-20000                                  t                                 --
c 15000
Ca 10000 t_
5000 
0'
1930 19t  193r  1913 1934 1985  1936 1937 1988 I9M9 2    1991 19929
Yean



lludgclel Ealucallonal Ezpendiilures By LevtI*
(Cogut lan I99W)
Enrolliineit
1982         .1985           1988           1989           1990)          1991           1992       CGrowlh Rae Crowil, l ie
Prilimary       61168f         41729          3.1675        *1618         41696          ff0781         114258         6.40%          3.2%/"                R
n
secrcra         24925          20241          30554          22392          20664          44905          597711        9.10%           5.8RO%
1ertlary        26264          19275          29889          26.155         24523         29726          53613          7.40%           1.30%
*Iba .vaJA& a 196291 (.id. * .xqs. of 139) J ame bi* dotwn c tal coset L-v od c
11.. &Iue,it mmada urn e.md b abm. gj . a hi h d  e muabA as t nspilcoscupcol esueeI                                     1 1                                           >
Sawes 196) 1101 (.Uile 996 powusly sedw  Socil Stci 114 13p). *O9 A 1193. lnfsw F,sangn Iduagmm Facbsa Fm Witey lP(Fnwee
Sliares dt UDilgeicti Elpc.i(lisircs lly Lcvcl
1982          1985           1988           1989           1990           1991           1992
I'dIuary         5.1.1          52.5           3(.5          '17.8           '18             52           510.2.                              a
Sec/Tecih        22.2           24.3           32.1           23.9           23.8           28.9           26.2
Terilary         23.4           23.2           31.4           28.3           28.2           19.1           23.6
Tot:l           I (II)         I (3                         I(101          I0N            IN0            100
,                                  .                               . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
UE
em



- 56                                 Annex 3
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Average Percent Enrollment and Percent Expenditure Bv
Level 1982-1992
so 
60 
L Ot                                           =     0wd
20
1     2           ~~~~~~~~~3
Levei of Educaxion



Allocalioin of Butgeati-y ltesources by Curreii amid Capital Expeniditure
2982, 1935, 1988-1994
(Viicsig (3,)
1982          1985            198I          1909')         1990          1991           1992          1993           1994
* Curtenl       8991          12632         29-150         541153        771176         145483        223169        3341641        417108
Caplial        2279           2520          2797           2358           2185          9367          27168          15332          15704
rotal         11270         15152          322-17        56511          79661         154850        250336         349973         432812
em
s...  ost.19l1SP.'di...41    ,,,, IaM I"aCW.d.`........ a1, I" I.9.w..|..s -i ...  l... .... .urc o
*S..tpul I.  M. I  I". m-u.&. Uqyuh14 IMkvo   SM .q...d.u9 .d7 h.A6,~ba..=-  W~ C.w.. .I 99' inaIbm. 1.1OWN am..
Allocation of Bihagetuay Rlesoulces by Cur r ent aisd Capital Expeiditure
21932. 295. 1988-1994
C.
.0                    (Cosuant  1992 ,G)o
0*
1982^        12985           19R8           1989           1990          1991           1992           1993          1994                          1
cuirrclnl      a)892         69431          75(120        105685         110943         166901        223168                                                  - 
C*aplial      22785          13851          7163           46212         3129           10746         27168 90
Total        112678         83282          82583         110286        1141071        177647        250336                                                  c
5S..". 1911. IM               11"1 ,9' 199I(so,M.s,.1 1....a, w O  191b1. ... F -Km .IalWw...    1991 MtC I vnlq.bnc W-g elE PI--
'"ml i 191 n.1 1. b..I-w *.u .h"  gyiw I tdA I kaot,p.4 .d.                        esiAM. I. Sm1. &Sm,
Slimrie tor Resoiurces tio Ctuni-eit motif Casital Expendliutires
t9R2. 19RS. 19R331994                                                                                     tO
I982          1985          1298H          1989           1990           1991          1992           1993           1994
Curtent          80            83             91            96             97             94            99             96             96
Captial         20             17             9              1             3              6             11             4              4
'Ioal          200           10U            200            l00           200            lO            100            100            100



- 58 -                                 Annex 3
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
a  2~e
|-  -  o       r 
_  _,   a-  2-
i:      -a __c c 
.    .*  -  ,     -o  3 



- 59 -                                                                Annex
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Courses by Zone
Gm tmi Totwl:                    4931
Blic                             :9SJ
Bach. Humustice:                 1573
Seek. Cmmmevcust:                 344
Bock. Technucal                    :6
ac                                    I             B Humc                                  Ba Ci                    |
zoe                      Iir           second       Third       I Fourth       Fifth        Sink        jFmarh        Fifh         Sduh
Capua                         10 L56                     170          116           110         IOS           S550                      4.6
C                              53           49           42            21           13           13            I            0            0
SanPedm                        ii           71           63            37           33           30            5            4            3
Cwodilla                       36           66           60           46            51           39            7            6            6
Gua                            52           39           35            30           25           =             2            :            2
Csap..33a                      97           79           64           42            34           29            t            5            5
caanpa                         &I           33           32           21            17           13            I            I            I
Itua                           72           so           53           29            26           23           10           t0            I
.AMICIMC,                      *6           47           43           .5            20           Is           .
Pauan                          67           62           56           47            45           40            A            3            3
A1to Patu                      57           43           39            35           74           26            7            7            7
CcUnd                          IS:          129          127           17           6J           di             I          11            15
Nenbu                          :7           26           24            1 4          Is           13            I                         I
Arn--y                         19           19           17            I 1          9             6            I            I
Cmmdciu                         1           19           16            10           9             7            : -
Pdis Hay                       :7           26           16            13           11           1 1           I            I 
AJto iPwaay                    10           9             7            4            5             3            0            0            0
ia3                             i            2            3            3             2            2            0            0            0
Tftal                    I   113I 13                    S67    1    591            524                        123          113          103
Hwr CitumdamC.m.
1"4
BMW                      I             Bach. HunmAm_O                          Baci Cammu-l
Fint         Sweond      Third        I Fowsh       FiRft        SIxh         I Feanh       Fifth        Sinth   _ I TOW
1153         963          567          $91           524          455       :121             113          103         4905
HomCazxco                 I    160          160          160    I    159            160          159    I    159            160          159    |    95S
Sub-Total                    131573110    154080       U113726       93969        83340         728S7        70352         17967-       I6 1377     733407
Hore Ca                                             Hor_ Catod,uoCu.                                      Tal Hmn Catm
1994                                                1994                                                 1994
Basic                         47S3O
Cau    Docega  (199.4)                      379                   Ba Hauiaco                    250631                 By Rubro                       34.11
Ha. CmadWCgo                                96                   Bich. COaCi                    5469                   By Cum                       7W307
Toa H         Caind                        WS4                    Geniei Toa                   733407                  TOtW                         16791



- 60
Annex 4
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Student Assessment System
1.    The Ministry of Education in the process of establishing a National System for
Evaluation of the Educational Process (SNEPE - Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del
Proceso Educativo) that would support educational policy decisions. The assessment of
student learning is one of the main components of this national system. The IDB would
finance the evaluation program for primary education and the proposed project would
finance student assessments for secondary education.
2.    The following section briefly describes the objectives of the secondary education
student assessment program and highlights key elements of the program's: (i) institutional
framework for implementing the system, (ii) technical design of the assessment
instruments, (iii) test administration and analysis scheme, and (iv) promotion and
dissemination strategies.
Student Assessment Objectives
3.    The main objective of the secondary education student assessment program is to
inform educational policy decision-makers by providing periodic, valid, reliable, and timely
information on student coenitive achievement and identifying factors that can help explain
the differences in achievement.
Institutional Issues
4.    Institutional arrangements. A special unit in the Directorate of Vocational and
Educational Orientation (DOEV - Direccion de Orientaci6n Vocacional) would carry out
activities related to the general management and promotion of the system, test
development and administration, and the dissemination and use of results. The unit would
be composed of a director, a technical-pedagogical team, and an administrative team. All
aspects related to data processing and analysis would be sub-contracted.
5.    Strengthening local capacity. The DOEV's capacity to carry out its new functions
is weak and therefore, strong capacity building efforts are required. During the project
preparation phase, such efforts were initiated. For example, a workshop on selecting
objectives and item construction was provided for the DOEV's staff and evaluators from
other MEC Departments. The proposed project would continue such efforts by:
(i) providing workshops on statistics, test construction and analysis, promotion and
dissemination strategies, computer skills, and administration; (ii) financing study tours to
foreign institutions with experience in assessment, and (iii) providing means for the DOEV
staff to communicate with peers through journals, library development, and travel to
professional meetings.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Test Technical Design
6.    Cycles and grades. Assessments would be developed for students at the final
grade of the educational cycles covered by the project, which would be the equivalent of
ninth and twelfth grade. In 1997 and 1998, the present third and last year of secondary
school would be tested (i.e., 3 and 6 curso). In 1999, after the extension of prinary
education to a nine-year basic education cycle, the last year of this new cycle ( 9 grado)
and the last year of secondary education (12 grado) would be assessed.
7.    Subjects. The system would measure learning in the following subjects: Spanish,
Mathematics, Natural Sciences, Social Studies and Guarani. Spanish and Mathematics
would be the core subjects included in every national administration. Natural Sciences
would be assessed in administrations for ninth grade and Social Studies in those for
twelfth grade. Guarani would be assessed only after the curriculum changes of the
Educational Reform are carried out; that is, only after Guarani is incorporated into the
ninth and twelfth grade curriculum.
8.    Reference. The assessments would be criterion-referenced, measuring knowledge
and other key curriculum objectives of each cycle.
9.    Number and ype of items. The tests that would be nationally administered in ninth
grade would have 45 items per subject and those for twelfth graders would include 50
items per subject. These items would be multiple-choice. The tests for language at both
levels would include an essay question.
10.   Versions and Equating. For each subject, two parallel versions would be
administered during the national administrations. In order to ensure that assessment
results can be compared, the parallel versions would be equated.
11.   Standardization. The content, administration, and scoring of the tests would be
standardized.
12.   Supplementary information. Along with each test administration, surveys for
directors, teachers and parents wouldsbe carried out. These surveys would provide
information on school-related variables (e.g., textbook availability, teacher characteristics,
etc.) that enable the assessment data to be used for policy analysis.
Test Administration and Analysis
13.   Census and sample administration. The system would by sample-based, with the
exception of census-based administration for ninth grade in 1999 and for twelfth grade in
2002. These census-based administrations would be carried out in order to monitor a
complete cohort and evaluate the efforts of the educational reform.



- 62 -
-                                Annex 4
14.   Years of pilot and national administration. Both pilot and national
administrations would be carried out in October. Since the surveys would not vary from
year to year, they would only be piloted at two points in the life of the project: a first
piloting in 1996 and a second one in 2001 for updating purposes. The test administration
plan for the period 1996-2002 is presented in Table I of this Annex.
15.   Reliability and validity analysis. Reliability and validity analysis would be carried
out for all tests.
16.   Analysis and further research. Thorough psychometric analysis of tests and
statistical analysis of results would be carried out. In order to attempt to explain the
differences in achievement, the analysis of the results would include analyses of the
relationships between the assessment data and the information collected in the surveys.
The level of analysis would correspond to the type of adrninistration (census or sample-
based). Optical scanning equipment would be used to speed data processing and thus,
help ensure timely information. Furthermore, an up-to-date database would also be made
available to educational researchers interested in carrying out further analyses of the
results.
Promotion and Dissemination
17.   Promoting system andfostering evaluation culture. An information, education
and communication (IEC) campaign would be carried out to inform supervisors, technical
teams, directors, teachers and the public in general on the meaning and importance of
national student assessment. It is expected that the EEC efforts would help gain support
for the system and foster a culture of evaluation.
18.   Targeted dissemination audience. The results will be disseminated to central,
regional and local authorities, teachers, supervisors and the public in general.
19.   Methods and timing of dissemination. Different reports and methods of
dissemination will be used for the different audiences and directors, teachers and
supervisors will be trained in the interpretation and use of assessment results. The formal
dissemination of results will be carried approximately four to five months after the national
admiinistrations (approximately in March of each year).
20.   Monitoring the impact of the system. These dissemination measures are intended
to influence actions at several levels of the educational system. The general performance
information will provide an important quality check on the overall system and provide a
benchmark against which educational managers and the cormmunity in general can judge
progress. In terms of specific areas of weakness revealed in the test results, the content
and orientation of the pre-service and in-service teacher training system should reflect
efforts to address these deficiencies. Once the census-based results are available for each
school, efforts to improve quality in the neediest schools can be more accurately targeted.
Proposals for school-based innovations at the local level should reflect each school's
particular performance challenges.



- 63-
Annex 4
Table 1: Test Administration Plan - 1966-2002
Year          Grade              Instruments            Administration
1996   9th grade (3er curso    Language and Math   Pilot
I ____________________   Surveys
1997   9th grade (3er curso)   Language and Math    Sample-based National
Surveys                Administration
12th grade (60 curso)   Language and Math   Pilot
Surveys
1998   9th grade (90 grado)    Language, Math,     Pilot
Guarani, and Natural
Sciences
12th grade (60 curso)   Language and Math   Sample-based National
Surveys                Administration
1999   9th grade (9 grado)    Language, Math Guarani, Census-based National
and Natural Sciences   Administration
Surveys
12th grade (12 grado)  Language, Math and  Pilot
Social Sciences
2000   9th grade (90 grado)    Language, Math, and  Pilot
Natural Sciences
12th grade (120 grado)  Language, Math and  Sample-based National
Social Sciences        Adrninistration
Surveys



- 64 -
Annex 5
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Textbooks, Educational Materials, and Curricular Support
Definition and Objective
1.    This component would support the design, development, procurement,
distribution, and use of high quality educational materials for public school students in the
first, second and third years of the third cycle (seventh through ninth grades), as well as
institutional strengthening of the Department of Curriculum of the MEC.
2.    The component consists of five sub-components:
i Textbooks in Spanish, mathematics, and natural science for the three mentioned grade
levels, developed in accordance with the official curriculum of the Educational Reform
currently in preparation. A total of 866,835 texts will be purchased, distributed, and
used during the project; 288,945 each in Spanish, mathematics, and natural science
texts for the third cycle public school students (grades 7-9).
 Educational materials consistent with the official curriculum and the new plans and
programs of the Educational Reform. This includes 800 sets of learning materials for
third cycle public schools in 750 official institutions and 50 subsidized institutions.
* Classroom libraries which stimulate reading habits, research, discovery, and thinking,
keys to facilitating the teaching-learning process. These will be divided as follows: (a)
basic libraries with 80 books, including dictionaries, texts, support and specialized
books for schools which do not have libraries at present. The project will acquire and
distribute 600 basic school libraries for 565 official schools and 35 subsidized
institutions; and (b) collections of 50 books to upgrade existing libraries. The project
will acquire and distribute 200 upgrade libraries for 185 official schools and 15
subsidized institutions.
* Reference books and materials for Departmental Pedagogical Units: (a) libraries
of 70 pedagogical and reference texts for Spanish, mathematics and natural sciences,
and (b) support materials to facilitate teacher training. The project will purchase and
distribute 18 sets of materials, one to each DPU.
* Training for members of the Curriculum Department, specifically the Learning
Resources Division, and other institutions in: (a) new cognitive trends in curriculum,
particularly in Spanish, mathematics and natural sciences; (b) techniques for design
and development of written materials, (c) development of selection criteria for



- 65 -                              Annex 5
textbooks and educational materials, (d) methodologies, sources and forms of research
in learning resources, and (e) mechanisms for parents' associations to increase the
sustainability of textbooks and educational materials. Support would also include
provision of basic reference materials and equipment to the Division of Learning
Resources within the Curriculum Department.
School Texts
3.    The texts currently used are based on the educational concepts of the 1973 period,
which was concerned only with the curriculum and not with the complete educational
system. They are teacher-centered texts, which produce an authoritarian and vertical
presentation of contents to students who passively receive text information. This text
concept no longer serves the needs of students and teachers, nor corresponds to the
characteristics of the Education Reform Program.
4.    Therefore, the new texts will be student-centered, will facilitate individualization,
maturation, contextualization and projection processes and will be dynamic, interactive
models capable of stimulating critical and creative thinking and the construction and
production of intelligence. Texts will be purchased in Spanish, mathematics and natural
sciences for grades 7-9 for use in the school year beginning in 1998, according to the
timetable for implementation of the revised curriculum in grades 1-9 (1994: grade 1, 1995:
grade 2, 1996: grades 3 and 4, 1997: grades 5 and 6, 1998: grades 7-9).
Educational Materials
5.    Students not only learn from the textbooks and the words of their teachers, but
from all the elements available in the classroom environment. The project will develop
specifications for optimal learning materials within the availability of resources and
congruent with the plans and programs of the new curriculum. The purchase of simple
materials for teaching natural science is anticipated, as well as materials for mathematics
and other elements which will facilitate student learning in the third cycle'. A set of
materials will be organized for each official public and subsidized educational institution in
this cycle.
School Libraries
6.     Students require diverse sources of information to facilitate their extended
learning. They should have access to a wide variety of books in order to:
(a)    contribute to the development of habits of reading according to their
interest so they may expand their symbolic horizons;
A tentative list of materials includes: maps, globes, posters and laminated charts, anatomical
displays, magnifying glasses, thermometers, scientific calculators, metric measures, geometric games,
and kits for scientific experiments.



- 66 -
Annex 5
(b)   enrich their communication and the development of their basic linguistic
functions: listening, speaking, reading and writing,
(c)   stimulate their interest in personal study and research to amplify the
knowledge and skills they receive in the classroom; and
(d)   encourage recognition of values and social norms and the preservation of
their environment.
7.    Unfortunately, current school libraries are scarce and poorly equipped. Twenty-
two percent of secondary schools have no supplemental books. More than 25 percent
have less than one hundred books, while 26 percent have between 100 and 299 books.
Only 27 percent of the schools have more than 300 books. A scant 24 percent of schools
have physical library facilities of any type.
Support Libraries for the Departmental Pedagogical Units
8.    The achievement of this project's objectives requires careful coordination among
components. A critical point is the relation between the provision of materials and training
teaching staff in their use. Therefore, this component will provide support libraries and
materials to the 18 Departmental Pedagogical Units. This support will include 40 of the
best texts concerning pedagogy, educational psychology, curriculum, evaluation, and
related subjects, 30 reference texts for the three major subject matters (natural sciences,
mathematics and Spanish), models of materials brought from other countries, technical
devices such as video recorders with a set of videos about subjects in pedagogy and in the
three main subject matters, overhead projectors and other elements to be determined
through research and user surveys.
Action Plan
9.    To select, purchase, and distribute the new texts, educational materials and school
libraries, it will be necessary to prepare an action plan which coordinates all activities. The
following suggests the major steps in the plan.
Preparation of plans and programs for Spanish, mathematics and natural
sciences for first through third grades of the third cycle.
10.   The draft version of these plans would be available no later than August 31, 1995.
Technical assistance will be provided for the validation of the third cycle plans and
programs, and training will be given in new cognitive trends in curriculum development,
particularly those areas consistent with the goals of the Educational Reform. Technical
validation of the curriculum is expected to be completed by the end of 1995.
Strengthening of the Learning Resource Division of the Curriculum Department



- 67 -
Annex 5
11.   The strengthening of the Learning Resource Division should be completed in the
second half of 1996, with the principal functions of establishing norms for textbook
quality, investigation and research in innovations in learning resources and the
coordination and assistance to the in-service teacher training system in the application of
these materials to the revised curriculum objectives.
12.   Once the required technical personnel have been assigned to the Learning
Resources Division, they will receive general training in design and development of
written materials, use of modern cognitive concepts and their application to the subjects of
Spanish, mathematics, and natural sciences, criteria for the selection of written materials,
methodologies and areas of research in learning resources, and in the development of mini-
laboratories for teaching science. This training will be given as part of the organization of
the Learning Resources Division during 1996-98, and will include national and
international technical assistance, study tours and seminars.
Establish the technical and pedagogic criteria for the selection of texts, learning
materials and school libraries.
13.   Critical to the component will be the development of appropriate criteria for the
selection of texts, learning materials and school libraries consistent with Paraguay's
educational needs. The principal areas for development of criteria include: consistency of
the texts with established curriculum, pedagogical quality, technical-graphic quality, and
efficiency and effectiveness criteria. The identification of these criteria will use as a base
the experience with selection criteria in the textbooks procured for grades 1 -6 under the
primary education project. It will also be necessary to determine the categories and titles
for the basic school libraries and the content of the educational materials to be provided,
which would reflect the needs of the new curricular plans and programs once these are
validated.
Purchase and distribution of textbooks, educational materials and school libraries
14.   Texts, learning materials and libraries will be acquired according to established
World Bank guidelines for procurement (January 1995). Standard Bidding Documents for
procurement of textbooks (current edition at time of application) would be used in the
international competitive bidding process. The preparation of the bidding documents will
be done according to the mentioned procedure. There will be four basic bidding processes
during the project, for (a) texts in the three subject matters for the three grades of the third
cycle, (b) educational materials for secondary schools, (c) school libraries for secondary
schools, and (d) support libraries for the Departmental Pedagogical Units.
15.   Texts: There are sufficient math, science and Spanish textbooks in the local and
regional market, particularly at the secondary level, that would serve the purposes of the
revised curriculum for grades 7 - 9, with very slight adaptation. Therefore, a one-step
ICB process is envisioned whereby the MEC would solicit texts in the three main subject
areas from the private editorial and publishing sector. The project would support training



- 68 -
Annex 5
for the technical staff of the Department of Curriculum in the design and content of
textbooks in order to improve the ability of the MEC to select high-quality texts, not to
enable MEC to produce these texts themselves.
16.   Technical evaluation of bids proposals would be carried out by committees
comprised of Curriculum Department specialists, representatives from other MEC
departments, and teachers with classroom functions in the appropriate grades from both
rural and urban areas. These committees, one for each subject area, would use selection
criteria and checklists developed during project preparation and would ensure conformity
between the textbooks, the revised curriculum and the precepts of the Education Reform .
17.   Textbooks would be delivered pre-packaged to existing MEC storage facilities.
Under the IDB primary education project, distribution of textbooks to primary schools, a
much larger and more geographically dispersed universe, is being carried out through
MEC channels, with support from the Armed Services for distribution in rural areas. A
successful public information campaign has heightened community expectations, and
hence local supervision of the effective delivery of these texts. Textbook deliveries
scheduled for 1995-1997 will deepen this experience and provide for alternatives, if
deemed necessary. Since there are fewer schools and a greater urban concentration at the
secondary level, there may be lower-cost options, such as use of the postal service and/or
private distributors. The proposed project, would finance public or private distribution
services, based on an evaluation of the distribution systems currently in use and proposed.
Mechanisms for local level participation in the monitoring of textbook deliveries would
ensure transparency and accountability in the process and inform students and parents of
the rights and responsibilities of textbook use.
18.   Educational materials and school libraries would be procured using ICB due to the
size of the purchases foreseen and the potential for significant cost savings by accessing
regional markets for such commonly available materials (e.g. dictionaries and maps).
Bidding would specify lots of similar materials (for instance, for school libraries: reference
titles, Paraguayan literature, international literature) to increase the overall quality of the
final purchases. Since these would be largely off-the-shelf purchases, delivery times would
be shorter. School libraries and basic educational materials (excluding science kits) would
be delivered by the end of 1996 for use in the academic year starting March 1997. Science
kits would be provided during the second semester of 1998 to allow for the absorptive
capacity of the MEC in the bidding, delivery and training of the textbooks and educational
materials.
19.   Crilical Dales: Due to the importance of timely delivery of textbooks, the
following schedule has been established to permit sufficient time for delivery and initial
training for teachers in their use in the classroom and the relation to the new curriculum:
For textbooks --
=> March 1996 - Distribution of revised plans and programs of the third cycle curriculum
to private sector publishing houses to stimulate the market



- 69 -
Annex 5
= November 1996 - Presentation of draft bidding documents for Bank no objection
> January 1997 - International invitation for bids announced
> March-April 1997 - Evaluation of bids
=> June 1997 - Signing of contract
> October 1997 - Delivery of texts to MEC
> November 1997- February 1998 - Delivery of texts to schools, initial teacher training
> March 1998 - Start of academic year with textbooks in classroom use from day 1.
School libraries --
=> May 1995 - Presentation of results of 'Survey of Availability and Preferences for
Library Materials, Texts and Educational Materials' conducted for students, teachers,
school managers and community members of a representative sample of secondary
schools
> November 1995 - Presentation of draft bidding documents for Bank no objection
=> February 1996 - International invitation for bids announced
=: April-May 1996 - Evaluation of bids
z> June 1996 - Signing of contract
> January - March 1997 - Delivery to schools
Educational materials (general materials)
.I December 1996 - Presentation of draft bidding documents for Bank no objection
=> February 1996 - International invitation for bids announced
> April - May 1996 - Evaluation of bids
= June 1996 - Signing of contract
=  September 1996 - Delivery to MEC
> November 1996 - Delivery to schools
Educational materials (science kits)
= October 1997 - Science fair; presentation of international experience with science kits
=> December 1997 - International invitation for bids announced
> February-March 1998 - Evaluation of bids
z> April 1998 - Signing of contract
=> August 1998 - Delivery of kits to schools
Sustainability of textbook provision
20.   At the school-level, textbooks would be made available for each student's use and
distributed free of charge, in keeping with the Education Reform objectives for the basic
education cycle. However, to promote respect for value of textbooks, parents of students
who lose or ruin their books would be responsible for the full cost of replacement. To
address the issue of longer-term sustainability of textbook financing after completion of
the project, the project would support the design of a mechanism to finance the acquisition
and distribution of textbooks once the project ends, including potential contributions from
parents' associations, the National Treasury and, eventually, support from regional and



-70-                              Annex S
municipal governments and NGOs. The project would support the definition of the legal,
administrative, financial and targeting aspects of this mechanism, which for the third cycle
of basic education is estimated to need on average US$600,000 per year. Parents
currently spend about US$2 per student per year on photocopies, or US$425,000 for all
public secondary school students, which would no longer be necessary with sufficient
supply of texts and educational materials.
Evaluation of the achievements of the component
21.   Evaluation of the results of this component would cover three areas: (a) on-going
monitoring of quantitative targets, i.e., that the number and quality of textbooks and
materials are delivered in an appropriate and timely fashion; (b) evaluations and surveys of
actual use of textbooks and educational materials; and (c) evaluations of sustainability
features of the component. To the extent possible, impacts on student achievement would
be carried out in concordance with the implementation of the student assessment system.
Technical Assistance Requirements
22.   To insure that MEC staff increase their knowledge, skills, and implementation
capacity, several international consultants would be contracted to offer services through
workshops and seminars as well as direct support in the execution of specific tasks. These
services will emphasize human resource development in the Learning Resource Division
and other departments of the Ministry. Nine consultants are planned in relevant subject
areas for a total of 540 person/days of assistance.



- 71 -
Annex 6
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Strategy for Training of Teachers And School Managers
General Objectives and Strategy
1.    This component has two main areas of emphasis: training for effective school
management; and school-based teacher training to improve teaching practices in the
classroom. The component would be implemented in a decentralized framework.
Strategies such as tutorials, discussion groups, and classroom demonstrations will be
used to link the training with the real difficulties faced by those who work in secondary
schools. The training activities will be supported by self-instructional materials,
guidebooks, complementaryqibliography and audio-visual resources.
Institutional Framework
2.    The implementation of the above strategy will require: (a) the strengthening of
the MEC to play a more strategic role in providing training; (b) a decentralized network
of training providers; and (c) targeting criteria for some training activities to the schools
which display priority needs for quality enhancements.
3.    The decentralized training network The institutional framework to
implement the component divides functions between the national, regional and school
level. This division is consistent with the National System for Teacher Training
(SINAD), currently under implementation with the IDB-financed primary education
project. As such the Department of Teacher Training ( Departarnento de Formaci6n
Docente - DFD) and the Institute of Higher Education (ISE), will be responsible for the
overall planning and supervising of implementation. A Technical Unit for Teacher
Training (UTAD- Unidad Tecnica de Actualizaci6n Docente) would be established
within the DFD, directly responsible for the implementation of the component. This
central team would be staffed with specialists in human resource development,
curriculumn, teaching methods in the core subjects and training materials. The UrAD
would be responsible for: (a) designing and planning the guidelines for training content
and methodology; (b) production (through out-sourcing) of training materials for
teacher's update workshops; (e) training delivery and monitoring; and (f) dissemination
of results. To avoid overstaffing of the DFD and to ensure a high-quality and timely
implementation, many of these functions will be performed with the support of short-
term technical assistance. Production of training materials, development of a monitoring
system, external evaluation and dissemination would be contracted with external
institutions or independent specialists. Training for school management would be
addressed to school principals, supervisors and other technical staff such as evaluation



- 72 -                                    Annex 6
and pedagogical coordinators. Training for teachers would be divided into two
activities: (i) training for effective use of educational materials; and (ii) continuous
updating of training subjects.
4.     The UTAD would work closely With the 18 Departmental Pedagogic Units
(Unidad Departamental Pedag6gica, UPD) staffed with a small team of professionals.
The UPD would coordinate training activities at departmental levels which would be
developed by educators and supervisors. This network of units supervised by ETN at
the central level, would be responsible for training of school principals and providing
technical assistance for school-based training in their respective departments. The
project will finance a set of bibliographic materials, training materials, VCRs and Video
Tapes, photocopy machines and other training resources, that will be used to support
training activities and development of teaching materials within the region.
5.     The UPD would alsoc (a) provide technical assistance regarding the content,
strategies and use of the training materials; (b) identify additional training resources in
the region, especially teachers and general educators to help with school-based training;
(c) disseminate the training experiences and promote interchange among the schools;
(d) provide the school committees and parents with timely and reliable information
about the training proeram; and (e) monitor the training activities in accordance with
the guidelines provided by the central executive team.
6.    The school and/or groups of schools would be responsible for: (a) the
organization, delivery and school-level evaluation of teacher training; (b) identification
of individual school training needs; (c) taking steps to meet their specific training needs,
using the resources available at the school or community level, in order to increase
school autonomy.
7.     Targeting schools. Training of school principals and teacher training for more
effective use of teaching materials will include all secondary schools. Continuous
training in the basic curriculum subjects will be initially targeted to the "high-risk
schools", located in low income areas and with high repetition and dropouts rates. The
estimated number of schools is about 180, or 15% to 20% of the schools in each
region. During the life of the project the number of participating schools would increase
in Line with implementation and supervision capacity.
Implementation Strategy: Objectives, Content and Activities'
Teacher Training
8.     Training in the use of educational materials to be provided: Although
materials to be provided to teachers and students would focus on the core curriculum
subjects (Spanish, mathematics and natural sciences), the school will be provided with a
'To update during appraisal



- 73 -                                   Annex 6
set of diversified matenrals such as: libraries, maps, posters, dictionaries, and science
kits. Hence the training for the use of teaching materials will be open to the entire
school teaching team. Each school would organize the training workshops in order to
meet the characteristics and needs of teaching in different subjects.
9.     Objectives: (a) upgrade the knowledge of teaching materials; (b) review and
improve classroom practices through the use of diversified teaching resources; (c)
increase efficiency in the use of text-books through diversification and supplementation
with reading books and others bibliographical sources; and (d) improve the capacity to
identify and produce school-based materials, including school-based projects
specifically addressed to the development of new teaching materials.
Content:
*  basic outlines of the Educational Reform and its impact on school and
classroom management;
*  the use of teaching materials to promote more dynamic student-teacher
interaction;
* identification of community resources and their use as learning tools;
*  analysis and evaluation of teaching materials;
*  production of simple, non-sophisticated teaching materials at the school level;
+  school-based projects to develop and produce customized educational materials.
Activities:
-  school-based workshops;
-  experimental use of new teaching materials in the classroom, followed by
discussion and coaching with specialists;
*  demonstration of the use of new materials;
*  individual or small-group tutorials.
Implementation:
schedule: it is estimated that school would devote about 60 hours each to
this training, beginning in September 1996 until the end of the 1997 school
year. Each school wquld be responsible for the schedule of its workshop to
sections and classroom experiments, under the supervision of the UPD;
teachers would meet on Saturday or in non-teaching hours, according to the
teaching schedule;
location: school and/or school zone;
training providers: school principals, staff of UPD specialists identified by
the school and/or supervisors;
materials: self-training modules (estimated to be about eight); guidebooks
for the use of textbooks and libraries; bibliographical and audio-visual
support materials; materials available at the UPD;
materials providers: The Curriculum Department and the Teacher Training
Deparnment;



- 74 -                                    Annex 6
=> evaluation: self evaluation by teachers; school evaluation of the training; an
external evaluation would be contracted by the DFD/UTAD.
10.   Continuous updating of teachers in the core curriculum subjects (Spanish,
mathematics and natural sciences): This activity would initially be targeted to the
schools with high repetition and drop-outs rates, located in low-income areas. The
results and lessons learned fom these priority schools would then be expanded to
training in the remaining schools.
Objectives: (a) improve the skills in defining the basic competencies to be achieved in
the core currculum subjects; (b) increase and update the knowledge of these subjects;
and (c) review of classroom practices and planning of teaching strategies to improve
student learning.
Content:
+  Spanish, mathematics and natural sciences for teaching secondary students;
* teaching to improve written and oral expression, lecturing and use of
reference materials;
- teaching to develop problem-solving skills and creative thinking;
* scientific methods and their relationship to the student's life;
* teaching to improve inductive and deductive reasoning;
- experimental reasoning and skills;
*  content of the core curriculum subjects and the teaching material provided;
* school-based projects to improve student learning.
Activities:
* school-based workshops;
* classroom experiences followed by discussion and coaching by specialists;
* classroom demonstrations;
* meeting at departmental and school zone levels to discuss experiences and
problems;
* technical assistance of the UPD staff and/or specialists identified by the
school or the UPD staff.
Implementation:
schedule: the school-based workshops will be developed during the 1998
and 1999 school years, with an estimated 120 hours of training by teachers;
each school will be responsible for scheduling its own workshop sections,
supervised by the UPD supervisors and specialists; teachers would be
trained on Saturdays or in non teaching time;
location: schools and/or school zone level;
training providers: school principals, specialists recruited by the UPD,
supervisor specialists by curriculum subjects;



-75-                               Annex 6
=> materials: self-instructional guides; audio-visual materials; complementary
bibliographies; materials available at the UJTD;
materials providers: the DFD/UTAD and the UPD;
> evaluation: in addition to the external evaluations to be contracted by the
UTAD, it is expected that the DFD/UTAD would provide guidelines for
teachers and schools to evaluate the training and provide feedback.
Training in School Management
I1.   This subcomponent would address: (a) the technical staff at the central level; (b)
technical staff at the departmental level such as supervisors of secondary education,
supervisors specialized in curriculum subjects, pedagogical coordinators and evaluators;
(c) school principals; and (d) parents' associations.
Central staff training    ,
Objectives: (a) introduce the most recent developments in the field of school
management; (b) develop the capacity to design training programs; and (c)strengthen
management capacity for implementing, monitoring and evaluating training programs.
Content:
*  Curriculum guidelines and objectives of the Education Reform;
* new demands in secondary education; secondary education and the labor
market;
* conceptual framework of human resource development for secondary
education;
* recent designs and methodologies for staff development in education;
* use of educational statistics and student assessment information in planning
training programs for supervisors, school principals and teachers;
* training strategies and training materials, use of multimedia resources for
training;
* targeting of training activities to the needier schools;
* monitoring of training, programs;
* evaluation and impact indicators for training programs;
* organization of training networks and the role of the Departmental
Pedagogic Units (UPD);
Activities:
* national and international technical assistance;
* study tours and short-term study programs;
* workshops and seminars with international specialists;
* discussion of other countries' training programs in secondary education;
* provision of specialized bibliographical materials;



76 -                                     Annex 6
* provision of technological resources (hardware and software) for program
management and monitonrna systems.
Implementation:
> schedule: technical assistance during the implementation period, more
concentrated in the phases of planning and evaluation of component
activities; two seminars, in the first and third years of the project; study
tours for five staff in each year of the project;
> location: Asuncion and abroad;
> training providers: national and international consultants;
= materials: specialized literature; technical documents and reports on
secondary education training programs.
Regional staff training
Objectives: (a) improve the capacity to provide technical assistance to the schools in
managerial and administrative issues; (b) change the role of supervision from its current
administrative focus to support technical and educational quality; (c) develop the
capacity to collect, process and analyze educational statistics; (d) update the
administrative and managerial skills needed to coordinate school activities at the
regional level; and (e) develop the leadership to stimulate school autonomy and
iritiative.
Content:
* the reform of education in Paraguay and its impact on the curriculum of
secondary schools, school management and the role of supervision;
* new curriculum guidelines in Spanish, Mathematics and Science;
* teacher training strategies based on school workshops;
*  training materials and effective training;
* teaching materials and classroom management;
* strengthening of the school and school-based initiatives to improve
education quality;
* use of statistical infoqnation and student assessment information for
educational management at the regional level;
* planning and financing of education at the regional level;
* school management to increase community participation, school initiatives,
and autonomy,
* infrastructure management to improve the use of physical facilities and
increase the coverage of secondary education.



77 -                               Annex 6
Activities:
* national workshops,
* regularly scheduled meetings at the UPD;
* technical assistance from the DFD/UTAD;
+  provision of training resources for the 18 UPD.
Operational execution:
schedule: National workshops in July 1996, December 1996; and July 1997;
location: Asuncion;
training provider the lTAD;
> materials: basic bibliography related to the training content, self-instruction
materials; audio-visual resources; materials to be provided to the DTC and
copies of the training materials and teaching materials for school principals,
schools, teachers and students;
materials provider: the UTAD;
3 evaluation: the departmental staff to be trained would evaluate the overall
strategy and provide feedback to the UTTAD.
12.   School principals training (would be offered to principals and other non-
teaching staff)
Objectives: (a) develop the leadership to guide implementation of educational reforms;
(b) stimulate school initiatives and innovation; (c) promote parent and commnunity
participation in school management; (d) update knowledge of the administrative and
financial procedures needed for school management; and (e) develop the capacity to
prepare school-based projects to improve student learning.
Content:
*  educational reforms in Paraguay, new curriculum guidelines;
*  efficiency and effectiveness in school management;
*  guidelines and administrative procedures in managing financial and human
resources and infrastructure at the school level;
*  pedagogical managergent - curriculum planning, grouping of students, use
of teaching materials and other pedagogical resources to increase student
learning;
*  use, optimization, conservation and cost recovery mechanisms for the
sustainability of educational materials (texts, libraries and other materials);
*  training materials for teachers and the organization of school-based
workshops for teachers training;
+ infrastructure maintenance and optimization;
* basic educational statistics and their use for school planning;
*  the institutional development of schools; local initiatives and autonomy,
* the development of school-based projects;
*  community and parent partnership; participatory school management.



- 7S -                               Annex 6
Activities:
*  departmental workshops with assistance of the departmental staff and the
UTAD;
*  technical assistance from the regional uriit through the supervisors and
specialists;
*  school principals meeting at the local or school-zone level.
Operational execution:
> schedule: departmental workshops in September 1996 and March 1997;
departmental meetings every two months
location: Department Pedagogic Units (UPD) and/or school zone
= training provider: school principals selected to be the trainers in their
school districts
=> basic bibliography related to training content; manuals of administrative and
financial procedures; self-instructional and audio-visual materials; manuals
of educational legislation; materials to be provided to the DTC and copies
of the training materials and teaching materials for schools, teachers and
students;
= materials producer: The Department of Teaching Training (DFD), will
coordinate with other MEC departments to define the content of the
materials for the school principals' training
= evaluation: the DTC specialists would coordinate a departmental level
evaluation and provide feedback to the UTAD; external evaluation to be
contracted by the UTAD.
13.   Training and orientation of parents (would be offered to members of the
existing parents' associations and to community and parents in general)
Objectives: (a) strengthen the parents' capacity to access available information about
school organization and productivity; (b) develop social skills to improve parents'
participation in school activities; (c) develop knowledge and institutional skills to
improve parents participation in the planning and evaluation of school management; and
(d) strengthen the existing parents' association to broaden its participation in school
management.
Content:
*  ownership - parents' rights and responsibilities towards the school as an
educational service;
*  the educational community, its institutional identity and membership - roles
and responsibilities;
*  normative and fonnal organization of parents' associations;
*  effective management of human and financial resources of parents'
organizations;



79 -                                Annex 6
+  the education reform and its impact on the role of parents and parents'
associations;
* information about the school: sources and uses;
* parents' support to the organization and evaluation of the school outputs;
*  parents' participation in curricular and extracurrcular school activities,
Activities:
* mass media campaign using radio and TV to the public in general;
* assemblies and workshops, at local or departmental level, with
representatives of the 2,400 parents' associations;
* development of manuals and informational materials to promote
participation of over 150,000 parents in school activities;
* school-based activities with parents led by the parents' association
representatives at local or departmental levels.
Operational execution:
3 schedule: the activities/materials would be bundled by school zone and/or
group of schools, and carried out/distributed during the project life;
3 locaton: schools, physical facilities available in the community, DTC;
3 mateials: guidebooks, brochures, graphic and audio-visual materials; radio
and TV programs;
training provider Training Program supported by UNICEF, designed and
monitored by a central team from key MNEC departments and executed by an
outreach team of social promoters or through mass media directly. NGOs
and/or specialized agencies (e.g. UNICEF);
m materals producer: Central team plus services from subcontracted to
private providers or NGOs with technical guidance from UNICEF;
= evaluaton: would be coordinated and/or contracted by the Departnent of
Social Action.



- 80 -
Annex 7
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Infrastructure Improvement Program
The dimensions of the infrastructure improvement program are as follows:
Projected Project Infrastructure Composition
Pre-Selected                 Community-
Requirements    Schools                                Driven Demand   Total
Class-   Meters2    Class-              Meters2    Class-    Meters2    Class-    Meters2                   Impact
rooms                     rooms                        rooms                     rooms                    ._(%)*
Rehabilitation
-Minor                    1,676    135,153                                          458       32,649          458       26,566           24%
...........................   ................  ..................................  ..........................................................................................    ......................... s......................................
Rehabilitation
- Major           ~~~1,098      88,543                                       216        16,340          216       12,062          18%
........... .... ....................   ............. ................................   ................. ?............................... .................. ...........................   ......................................... .................... M j r1 0 88   4  1   6 3 02 61   6  8
Substitution                  115        8,625              1 1          833                          0          1 1         8 .,.,       10%
......   .....................................  ................ ............................   .... L........................... ..................  .................................   . .....  .......... .   .. .......................................
Epan.sion                    918    68,850                222    16,650              600   45,000              822   61 650               90%
Complementary
Facilities                                                          25,265                                               25,265           14%
180,784
,,,,,,,,,,,,...7      4 .....................   ......    ............................................ .....:............................................. .................  ......................
Sub-Total   3,807   481,954                      233    42.748    1.274   93,989    1.507  136,737                               28%
Impact Estimates. The impact (*) is defined as the effect of project activities on system
requirements to the year 2000. In the case of coverage, the project would satisfy 90 percent of
the anticipated demand for new student places in the third cycle of basic education based on
projected improvements in the effective promotion rates of the system. An increase in the
effective promotion rate of the first five years of primary school from 80 at present to 84 percent,
an increase from 63 to 74 percent for sixth grade, and from 74 to 80 percent for grades 7-9 would
result in a total enrollment of graders 7-9 of 183,950 by the year 2000 (see attached tables for
enrollment projections), resulting in an increase in the enrollment rate of grades 7-9 to 56 percent.
Requirements to theyear 2000. Needs for minor and major rehabilitation and
substitution (rebuilding of existing schools whose physical condition is beyond rehabilitation) are
based on a census of secondary school infrastructure carried out during project preparation, in
which 58 percent of classrooms were found to be in acceptable condition (requiring only minor
rehabilitation over the next five years), 38 percent were in normal condition (requiring major
rehabilitation over the next five years) and four percent require complete substitution.
Complementary facilities include bathrooms, administrative areas and libraries.



- 81-                                         Annex 7
PARAGUAY
Secondarv Education Improvement Project
Infrastructure Improvement Program
Enrollment Projections
Primary
Year I Entrants            1          2 |                   41 3         i         6 Tota      |
19931   126.9841   163.9521   133.0441   124.325w   1C6G.9101    88.4351    71.5431   688.2C9
19941    129.9041    167,9821   137,0351   128.0551   110.1171   91.0881     73.6891   707.661
19951    132.8921   168.4701   144.2341   131.3741   113.3511    95.15a1    76.5771   729.1641
19961   135,9491    168.1851   149,t981   137.3761   116.2461    99.4391    80.6911   751.1351
19971    139.075j   167.8181   153.3181   141,6891   121.3281   103,55391    85.0881   772.8G01
19981   142.2741   167.5221   157,2741   145.072    125.1581    109.5621    89.4341   794.0221
19991   145.5461   167,3241  161,2671   14.81901   128.1181   114.8371    95.4081   815.144 
20001   148,8941    170,6461  161,5771   151.8964   130.8861   117.8221   100.0854   832.9121
20011    152.3191   174.5031   164.4381  -?52.5301   134.1371   120.4181   102.7971   848.9231
20021   155.8221    178.5071   168.C601   155.0251   134.3321   123.375j   105.0871   864.8874
20031   159,4061   182.6121   171.8981   158.3541   136.S631   124.2481   107,6561   881.7311
20041   163.0721    186.8121   175,8481   161.9491   139.e661   125.1041   108.5091   899.C881
20054   166.8231    191.1081   179.8921   165.6661   143.C301   128.6991   110.0921   918.487
Basic Cycle                                 BACHILLERATO
lYear I         11          21        3ITotalCycle           41         Si         GlTotalBach.!Total
4                                                          4          4                     j Second.ITOTAL
719934    47.5151    35.3991    27.6251   110.5391   '23.3991    17.1621    13.7211    54.2821 164.8214   8 53.030
[19941    49.4164    36.8151   28.7301   114.9611    24.3354    17.8481    14.2701    56.4531 171.4141  879.380
19951    52.'2531    39.0521    30.1961   121.6011    25.2091    19.1651    15.0854    59.459 181.0601  910.224
19964    5 .9541    42.1874    32.3451   130.4861    26.3461    20.5281    16.4591    63.3334 193.8191   944.954
19974    60.561 1    45.9881    35.2851   141.8341    28.0451    22.1331     17.9131    68.0911 209.9251  982725
t 19981    65,--61    50.7341    38.e634   155,193|    3C.425i    24.2621    19.5171    74.2054 229.4981 1,023.520
19991    70.r731    56.0281    43,3081   170.1091    33.3721    27.0751    21.8361    82.2931 252.3921 1.067,536
20001    75.5-61    60.5401    47.8541   183.9501    37.1491    29.7201    24.3681    91.2371 275.1871 1.108.099
20014    79.3521    64.6831    51.7821   195.8171    41.C691    33.0631    25.7484   100,8801 296.6971 1.145.520
20021    81.6241    68.009      55.3711   205.0041    44.5061    36.5621    29.7571   110.8251 315.8294  1.180,716
20031    83.4781    70.0601    58.2831   211.8214    47.-a35      39.6581    32.9061   120.1994l3320204  1.213,751
20041    85.5091    71.6871    60.1281   217.3241    50.1991    42.4731    35.6921   128.3641 345.6881 1.244.776
20051    86.2821    73.4251    61.5591   221.2661    51.8671    44,7931    38.2251   134.8861 356.1521 t.274.639



Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Mtttton)
Development of Human
Resources
Tralning
Institutional Development    Textbooks      for
Educational    and      Teachers                              School-baed
Educational  Student     Policy    Educational    and     Training for                 Quality      Project
Statistics  Assessment Studies and   Materials  Pedagogical    Parent    Inlrastructure  Improvement Coordination
System     System     Analysis   Provision    Units    AssoclaUons  Improvements    Grants         Unit       PPF    Total
t. Investment Cots ts
A. Consultant Servkes                                                                                                                                                                      2
IrntrnaitneIndrottuaiContracts                           002        Otl        005         030         015            -                        008          048             I 19         0
LocalIndidual Coriracts                                  Ot6        025                    013         014          00           0oe2                        109            266
Fem Controcts                                            006        033        053                     007          023           001                       022             144
Subtotal Consultant Services                               0 24      0 69        0 58        0 43        0 35         0 30          0183         0 08         1 79            5 29
f CtvdWor-                                                                                                                         19 15s                                    1915
C. EquIpment
Compres andRettetEquMent                                 023        002                    00S         005                        000                       001             037          r .
Otherequnpmennt                                                     00s                    001         018          000           000             -         002             020
Subtotal Equipment                                         023       002                     00?         021         000           001                       003             057      {  8
O Vehicle                                                                                                004                        O               -7                        0 21     0. *8Y
E Fundmte                                                  0 03      0 02                    002                                    2 39                      0 03            2 49             .              00
F. Trean                                                             009                     003         056         0 21                                                     0 96            tt
0. Educatlotat. Training and Olaseminallon Materials                                                                                                                                          r-
Textbooks                                                                                  2 90                                                                             2 90     n t    Y290
Oliver Avded MaettM                                      Oil       0 40        003                     0 30        0 t5                         06          0 04            1t6 1     -
Non-prdedEducktaOt Materuias                                                               t 35                                                   .135                                 ) t
L.trry Mater"ih                                                    001                     136        0003.                                                    -       -    1        CD O
SubtotalEducalbonal, Training end DtsseminationMaterials  OIt        041         003         56t        030          0S                          008          004             679        
H Sct f3ued Gants sGans                                                                                                                          094                          0 94
I OperattrigCosts                                         012        026         001         004        013                         0 55         0003         0 60            16           _
i PPF Repayment                                                                                                                                                       045    045
Tota investmentCosts                                        07e        152         062         620         160         072           2309          1 13         249    045   3660
U. Recurrntr Costs                                                                                                                                                                           0.
A Incaenta Sallares                                                 062                     042                                    007             -                         I tl 
B. Maintenance                                                                                                                                                                             -
I irdrastruclure Mo Scthm Furmture                                                           -                                    0 52                                     O 52
2 Equpment nd Veals                                     0 05       0 02                    0 02       0 06                        006                       005             026
Subtotal Matntenance                                      005        0 02                    0 02       008                         056                     0 05           Oe
Total Recurrent Costs                                       0 05       063                    044         006o                        0 65                      OOS             I 11
TotalPROJECTCOSTS                                            084        215        062         665         168          072          2374          1 13         254    045   4049
Taxes                                                     006        Olt         005        026         014          006            257         009          009             344
Foreign Eachng                                            033        046         022         342        057          O7I            563          012         06t    036    1190
IS
id



Disbursernent Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Government of                               Local
IBRD          Communities        Paraguay            Total         For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %      Amount    %       Amount    %    Amount    %           Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. CH Works                                        7.65     399      3.83     200     7.67     40.1   19.15      47.3    3.82    13.61       1.72
B GoodsandEquipmenr/a                              596      83.4                      1.19     16.6    7.15      17.7    5.05      0.91      1.19
C. Textbooks                                       2.90    100.0        -       -        -        -    290        7.2    0.95      1.95
D. Consultant Services                             516      97.6        -       -    0.13       24      529      131      1.62     3.54      0.13
E. Training                                        0.72     75.0                -    0.24      25.0    0.96       2.4    0.10      0.78      009                 LO)
F. School-based Grants                             0.75     80 0        -       -    0 19      20.0    0.94       2.3        -    0.86       0 08                n
G. Operating Costs                                 0 88     50.0                -    088       50 0     1.76      4.3        -     160       0.16                g
H. PPFRepayment                                    0.45    1000         -       -                 -    0.45       1.1    0.36      0.09         - 
1. Recurrent Costs
1. Incremental Salarles                             -       -        -        -    1.11    100.0    1.11        2.7        -     1.11         -
2. Maintenance                                                                                                                                                 C 
Infraslructure and School Furniture               -             0.26     50.0    0.28      500      0 52      1.3        -    0 47       005                 '
Equipment and Vehicles                           -                 -        -    028    100.0    0.26         0 6              0.24     0 02                  >
Subtotal Maintenance                                              0 26     33.3    0.52      66.7    0.78       1 9        -     0.71      0.07
SubtotalRecurrentCosts                                              026       13.7    1.63     86.3    1.89       4.7        -     1.82      0.07                _
Total                                             24.48     60.4     4.09     10.1   11.93      29.5   40.49    100.0   11.90    25.15       3.44                3c
\a inclides equipment, vehicles, furniture and training, dissemination and instructional materlals (except lexlbooks). 
F5



- 4 -                                       Annex 8
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Sumrnary
%     % Total
(US$ Million)       Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Investment Costs
A. Consultant Services
International Individual Contracts                                      -     1.08    1.08      100        3
Local Individual Contracts                                          2.39        -    Z39                  7
Firm Contracts                                                      0.91     0.39     1.29       30       4
Subtotal Consultant Services                                           3.30     1.47    477        31       13
B. CMI Works                                                          13.08    3.26    16.34       20      46
C. Equipment
Computers and Related Equipment                                     0.07     0.27     0.34       80        1
Other equipment                                                     0.04     0.15     0.19       80        1
Subtotal Equipment                                                    0.10     0.42     0.52       80        1
0. Vehicles                                                           0.04     0.16     0.20       80        1
E. Furniture                                                          0.67     1.56     Z23        70        6
F. Training                                                           0.77     0.09     0 86       10        2
G. Educational, Training and Disserination Materials
Textbooks                                                           1.78     0.87     2.65       33       7
Other Pnnted Matenals                                               0.52     0.52     1.04       50       3
Non-printed EducatIonal Materials                                   0.43     0.80     1.24       65       3
Library Matenals                                                    0.13     1.15     1.28       90       4
Subtotal Educational. Training and Dissemination Materials             2S86    3.35     6.21       54       17
H. School-Based Grants                                                0.82              0.82                 2
1. Operating Costs                                                     1 58       -    1.58                  4
J. PPF Repayment                                                      0.09     0.36     0 4        80        1
Total Investrnent Costs                                                 23.32    10 66    33.98      31       95
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremnetal Salanes                                                 0.99             0.99                 3
B. Maintenance
1. Infrastructure and School Fumiture                                0.45             0.45                 1
2. Equipment and Vehicles                                            0.23             0.23         -       1
Subtotal Maintenance                                                   068a              0.68                2
Total Recurmnt Costs                                                     1 67        -    1.67         -       5
Total BASEUNE COSTS                                                     24.99    10.66    35.65       30      100
Physical Contingencies                                                 1.90     0.67    Z57        26        7
Price Contingencies                                                    1.71     057      Z22        25       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                     28.59    11.90    40.49       29      114



Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Governrent of                             Local
IBRO         Comnnutilties      Paraguay          Total         For.   (Excl.  Dutles &
Amount    %    Amount    %    Amnount    %    Amount    %           Exch.  Taxes)   Taxes
A. Institutional Developnent
Educat InaiStatistlisSysYlem                         068      81.4                     0.16    186      0.84      2.1    0 33     0 45     0.06
Studeni Assessment System                            1.28     59.4       -             O87      406     2.15      5.3    0 46     1.58     0 11
EducalioWl Polcy StudiesandAfalysis                  056      909         -       -    008       9.1    0.62      1.5    0 22     0.34     005           45
Subtotal Institutional Development                     2.52     69 9       -        -    1 09    30.1    3.61       8.9    1.01     2 38     0 22          o
S. Texibooks and Educational Materlis Provision        5.92     89 0                     0.73     11.0    6.65     16.4    3.42     2.96     0 26
C. Development of Human Resources                                                                                                                          0
Training for Teachers and Pedagogical Unls           1.32     79.6                     0.34    20.4    1.66       4.1    0.57     0.95     0.14
Training for Parent Assoiations                      0.61     85.8                -    0.10     14.2    072       18     017      0.49     0.06
Subtotal Development of Hunmn Resources                1.93     81.5       7        -    044      18.5    237       5.9    074      1.43     0.20
D. infrastructure lmprovements                  ,     10.57     44.5    409      172     908      382    2374      586     563    15.54      257           f  n
E. Schooi-basedOuaMylrflprovernent Gianrs              0.92     81.4                -    0.21     186     1.13      28     012      0.92     0 09           .
F. PropctCoordinationUnit                              2.18     84.9                     038      15.1    254       83     061      1.84     0.09
G. PPF                                                 0.45    1000                         -             0.45      1.1    036      0.09         -         -            o
Total Disbursemnenl                                    24.48    60.4    4.09      10.1   11.93    29.5   40.49    100.0   11.90   25.15       3 44
.5
Is
I,
-I



- 86 -                            Annex 9
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Procurement Clauses for Loan Agreement and Procurement Arrangements
Special Provisions to be Included in the Legal Documents
In view of the discrepancies between Paraguayan law and Bank guidelines, the
following special provisions would be stated explicitly in the loan documents, that:
(a)   foreign consultants or contractors should not be required to enter into joint
venture agreements with local consultants or contractors as a condition of
submitting proposals or bids neither should they be required to register prior to
bidding; except that in local bidding, foreign bidders may be required to be
registered if the information requested is of such nature that it will not discourage
their participation;
(b)   foreign consultants or contracts should not be required to legalize their proposal
or provide supporting documents either at Paraguayan consulates or the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs as a condition for submitting proposals or bidding;
(c)   no minimum number of bidders should be necessary for competitive bids to take
place, and no minimum number of responsive bids should be required to award a
contract;
(d)   contract prices should be adjustable according to the yearly change in prices during
the life of the contract, regardless of the amount of the change,
(e)   foreign contractors shall not be required to hire local personnel except for
unskilled personnel,
(f)    Contract prices for works and goods may be adjusted even if such prices have
increased by less than 15% of the bid price,
(g)   foreign consultants will be selected from those included on a short list on the basis
of evaluation criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to the Bank; and
(h)   the prices of contracts over one year in duration may be adjusted.



- 87 -
Annex 9
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Procurement Clauses for Loan Agreement and Procurement Arrangements
Civil Works
........................  ..........................................................................................................................................  .................................................
Moreta  US$2 million                                        ICB                                                   All
US??0 oU$  !in....................... NB........ ... ..... .. 1........ ........
US75000 to US$2 million                               NBAll
Less than USS75,000                                         Three pnce quotations
......... ......... ...................... ................................................. ................  ........... .  .................................................................................................
Less than US$25,000 -- Small works   Direct Contracting
executed through communitv groups
Goods and Eu~et
MCore tanr US$250,000 B.                                                                                           All...........................  =  All
............................................................................................... ..........................................................................I........  ...........................
US$50,000 to US$250,000                                   . NCB                                                  All
..............u ....................................  .......... ....................................  ..............   .-          - -  ........
Less than  US$50,000                                        National and Intn'tl Shopping
of which: vehicles, computers and
ph?otocoiers.
More than US$50,000                                         LIB                                                  All
Less than US$50,000                                        Nat'l Shopping                                       ________
Twxbooks2                                                     ICB                                                  All
Consulting Services                                                                                                All terns of
reference
........................................  ...........  .................... ......... ........................................................................  .................................................
Contracts with Firms +US$20,000                             Other                                              . All
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ............................... ...................................................:........ .........................................?_:_:
Contrcts  ith Idiviuals+US$5,000  Other                                                                 All
School-Based Grants                                           Other - For goods valued at less    N/A
than US$5,000 where three price
quotations are not feasible, direct
contracting would be permitted.
Operating Costs                                               Other/nat'l shopping                                  N/A
Training and Seminars                                         Other/nat'l shopping                                 N/A
'Based on estimated package size and timing of goods to be procured, it is expected that: (a) school
furniture would be purchased either through ICB (USS 1.8 million) or NCB (US$0.6 million)
depending on the size of the yearly lot; (b) non-printed educational materials - principally science kits
- would be procured through ICB (US$1.35 million); (c) library materials would be procured using
ICB (USS1.35 million ) with the exception of small purchases of reference material (US$0.02)
through national shopping; (d) vehicles (USS0.21 million) through LIB; (e) office equipment (US$0.1
million) and other printed materials - tests, manuals, training materials- (USS 1.2 million) through
national shopping; (f) computers and photocopiers (US$0.45 million) through LIB with the exception
of about US$0.02 million in computers to be procured under national and international shopping.
2Distribution of textbooks would be carried out in accordance with the procurement plan, and based on a
evaluation of the ongoing textbook distribution under the IDB-financed primary education project as
well as a market study of alternatives. Where private services are to be contracted, competitive
procedures would apply. Where MEC infrastructure is used, distribution would be treated as an
operating cost for procurement purposes. A mixed system may also be applied.



- 88 -                                           Annex 10
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Disbursement Forecast
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
(USS Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
A. Institutional Developrnent
Educational Statistics System                          0.10     0.31     0.20    0.12     0.11     0.84
Student Assessment System                              0.40     0.44     0.42    0.53     0.36     2.15
Educational Policy Studies and Analysis                0.25     0.11     0.03    0.23              0.62
Subtotal Institutional Development                       0.75     0.86     0.65    0.88     0.47     3.61
B. Textbooks and Educational Matenals Provision          2.54     3.24     0.63    0 13     0.11     6.65
C. Development of Hurnan Resources
Training for Teachers and Pedagogical Units            0.63     0.33     0.29    025      0.16     1.66
Training for Parent Associations                       0.23     0.16     0.17    0.15        -    0.72
Subtotal Development of Human Resources                  0.86     0.50     0.46    0.40     0.16     2.37
D. Infrastructure Improvements                           2.23     6.79     6.62    6.27     1.84   23.74
E. School-based Quality improvement Grants                        0.05     006     0.51     0.51     1.13
F. Project Coordination Unit                             0.56     0.52     0.53    0.50     0.43     2.54
G. PPF                                                   045         -                         .    0.45
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       7.38    11 95    8a95     8.69     3.51    40.49



- 89 -
Annex I I
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
PCU Structure and Functions
1.    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would coordinate all project activities and
ensure that implementation is carried out in accordance with established guidelines,
procedures and agreed targets. The PCU's role is to facilitate, administer and monitor
activities executed by the various technical departments of the MEC. The PCU would
report directly to the Minister, with operational matters concerning the MEC Departments
coordinated through the Office of the Vice-Minister of Education.
PCU Structure:
=  Information
Executive                   Systems
Coordinator  -*  Support Services
(secretarial, etc.)
=- -- -   -------    ---------I- - -- - - -- -- - - -----
Finance -                  Procurement               Technical Quality
Administration             and
Contractinc_
_             |     ---1 r__l___ -----'-- - -    -                --
- Coordinator              - Coordinator             -Coordinator
- Accountant               - Assistant               - Education Specialist
- Assistants    I                                   i - Area experts
___________.~~~~     __  _  _  _  _            ____   ____   ______1 
PCU Functions
2.    The Executive Coordinator would be responsible for: (a) compliance with
agreements and procedures set forth in the project Loan Agreement, (b) planning,
programming and authorizing project all activities; (c) coordination of the functions
carried out in the financial, administrative contractual and technical areas of project
implementation, (d) management of the staff involved in information systems and support
services to ensure provision of timely and sufficient support to the actions of the three
functional areas; (e) selection and contracting of all PCU personnel, in consultation with
the Office of the Minister and the Bank; and (f) external relations with other government
and international agencies, as well as the general public and education commnunity.



-90-                            Annex 11
3.    The Finance and Administration functional area would be responsible for: (a) all
financial procedures, including management of the Special Account and project
disbursements, counterpart financing arrangements, the accounting and auditing
arrangements and SOE documentation; (b) personnel management; (c) budgeting and
programming of financial flows; (d) administrative arrangements for the purchase and
maintenance of PCU equipment and PCU operating needs, and (e) participation in bid
evaluation and selection procedures.
4.    The Procurement and Contracting functional area would ensure that all
procurement and contracting would be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines and
the project Loan Agreement. Specifically, the area would: (a) prepare or contract
technical assistance to prepare the technical specifications of all public bidding documents;
(b) supervise the bidding process, including the call for bids, establishment and operation
of the Evaluation Panel(s) and award of contracts, (c) prepare the annual contracting
program, including timing, budget and technical aspects of contracting to be undertaken;
(d) prepare or contract technical assistance to prepare the terms of reference and invitation
for proposals for consulting contracts to be awarded under the project; (e) ensure that
proper documentation is kept on all procurement procedures including ICB, NCB and
national shopping, and contracting of consultants; (f) coordinate the receipt, storage and
distribution of goods and equipment procured under the proposed project; and (g) ensure
compliance with Bank prior review requirements.
5.    The Technical Quality functional area would be responsible for overall quality and
impact of project activities, including: (a) coordination with MEC departments; (b)
contracting of short-term technical assistance to address specific technical aspects of
project implementation; (c) monitoring and updating of technical performance indicators;
(d) coordination with agencies outside of the NEC, such as universities and private
agencies, (e) compliance with reporting requirements of the project, including technical
aspects for the annual progress reports, (f) support for the MEC in the preparation of
Annual Implementation Plans; and (g) support for international and national experts in
strengthening MEC capacity.
6.    The Information Systems Unit would be responsible for: (a) design, installation
and operation of an MIS system to monitor project implementation and administration; (b)
provision of reliable and timely information to PCU management; (c) monitoring of
performance indicators as established in the Annual Implementation Plans; and (d)
provision of technological support to the financial administration of the project.
Resource Requirements
7.    The PCU would comprise about seven full-time professional staff and five support
staff. In addition, short-term technical assistance would be contracted to: (a) carry out
support to the PCU (computer services, information campaigns, etc.); (b) execute
important monitoring functions, such as the independent audits and technical support to
the Annual Strategic Planning Workshops and Mid-Term Review; and (c) balance peaks in



- 91 -                             Annex I I
work load, such as critical procurement periods or additional accountants to prepare for
annual auditing. In Year I of project implementation, this short-term technical assistance
would include the design and installation of a project management system to link
monitoring of financial flows with the planning and execution of project activities and the
overall performance targets.
8.    The project would finance the equipment, consultants (short-term and fixed-term
PCU staff) and operating costs of the PCU. The total base cost of this support amounts
to US$2.3 million, or six percent of total project costs - well within efficiency parameters
for project administration. Estimated PCU costs are distributed as follows: PCU higher-
level personnel (40 percent), short-term consultants and audits (30 percent), operating
costs (21 percent), support staff (5 percent), equipment and furniture (2 percent), and
publications (2 percent).



PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Project Implementation Schedule and Performance Indicators
Project Implementation Schedule
_ ____________                                                         VYeari.  :. .-Y .. ear2  --l Ye.r3 ...  3  Year4  |YearS
Institutional   Educational Statistics
Strengthening  System
Printing & distribution of Manual   10,000    50%       50%
of Educational Indicators        manuals      (5,000)   (5,000)
Printing and distribution of     8,000        50%       50%/O
Manuals of Statistics            manuals      (4,000)   (4,000)
Administration
Design of statistics information  I system    100%
system.                                       (1)
Development of                   I system               100%
statistics information system                           (1)      _
Purchase & installation of equip.    13 sets of         100%                                                 '0
for central level               equipment               (13)                    .
Purchase & installation of       S0 sets of             50%       50%
equipment for regional level     equipment              (25)     (25)
Full implementation of the system    I                  100%
at the central and regional levels    central           (I)
20                               50%        50%
regional                         (lo)       (10)
Dissemination of statistical     3,000        15%       17%       20%        23%         25%
information:                    copies        (450)    (510)    (600)        (690)       (750)
* Statistical Yearbooks
* Bulletins                   6,250         20%      20%       20%         20%         20%
copies       (1,250)   (1,250)   (1,250)    (1,250)     (1,250)
*Brochures                    50,000        20%      20%       20%         20%         20%
____________  .___________________  .__________________________        copies     (10,000)  (10,000)  (10,000)   (10,000)    (10,000)
Student Assessment
System
Training of technical team at    18 activities.  61%    33%       6%
central level                                 ( 1)      (6)       (1)
Application of Pilot Tests      S tests       20%       20%       20%        20%         20%
__________~~~~(1 (___________________    ____SL                            (1)       A) (1                  (1)x



co.hpmicsat  Sub~~~~~~~trnsponent  j Activityt                                 'ar:   YearXrjX i 2    ear 3    Year 4  Ivear 5
Student Assessment
System (cont.)
Application of final test             2 tests               50%                   50%
for 9th grade                                               (1)       ._(1)
Application of final test for 12th grade   2 tests                   50%                    50%
(1)                   ( 1)
Public awareness campaigns            67           3%       30%      30%          30%       7%
activ.      (2)      (20)      (20)        (20)       (5)
Dissemination activities              54 activ.                      33%          33%       3 3%
___________________   ___________________   ____________________ __________ _  (18)    (18)       (18)
Policy Studies and
Research                                      _____
Execution of core policy studies,     13 studies   31%      15%      23%          31%
impact evaluation studies, and studies            (4)       (2)      (3)          (4)
commissioned through studies fund
Seminars to present and discuss results  9 seminars         33%      33%          33%
_   (3)       (3)         (3)
Publications to disseminate results   5,000                 60%      20%          20%
._________________  ._________________________         _  reports               __ (3,000)  (1,000)   (1,000)
Provision of textbooks
and educational
materials
Textbooks and          Purchase and distribution of textbooks   866,835                      100%
educational materials                                        textbooks                       (866,835)
Purchase and distribution of          800          100%
educational materials: -- General     packages    (800)
-- Natural Science                   800 kits                       100%
(800)
Purchase of basic library materials   600                   100%
libraries            (600)                 _
Purchase of upgraded library materials  200                 100%
libraries            (200)              _
Institutional support   Technical training at central level   13          54%      27%       8%          8%
activities    (7)     (3)      (1)         (1)
Library endowment for central level   I library    100%
Library endowment to UPDs             18                    100%
libraries            (18)                                                 x



~~ii, SubcOil~POneft   --dxvfty                          - - ;l  :    tri- -ear~   t~LLI Cear4    Year5
Development of
Human Resources
Strengthening of    Training of central level staff to increase    75   100%
management          capacity to design and manage training  technicians  (75)
training programs    activities
at central level
Training in School   Training for national and regional level  240      100%      100%       100%      100%
Management          professionals in both pedagogical and   profess-    (240)     (240)      (240)     (240)
administrative aspects of school       ionals
management
Training for school principals in all aspects  1,110  100%    100%      100%       100%      100%
of school management                   managers   (1,110)   (1,110)   (1,110)   (1,110)    (1.110)
Training for members of parents'       2400        25%       25%        25%       25%
associations                           parents     (600)     (600)      (600)     (600)
Information campaign to general public  150,000    25%       25%        25%       25%
(oriented to parents)                  parents      37,500)  (37,500)  (37,500)  (37,500)
Teacher training    -Training in the use of textbooks in    10,000                 100%      100%
Spanish, mathematics and science       teachers              (10,000)  (10,000)
- In-service training to upgrade skills and    6,000                               100%      100%,10
methodologies in core areas            teachers                                   (6.000)   (6,000)
Infrastructure
Rehabilitation, expansion and construction   144   33%       33%        33%
of complementaLy facilities in pre-selecled   schools    (48)  (48)     (48)
schools
Construction of classrooms (demand-    600         20%       20%        20%       20%        20%
driven) by communities                 classrooms  (120)     (120)      (120)     (120)      (120)
Provision of furniture for school libraries    490  20%      20%        20%       20%        20%
bookcases   (98)      (98)      (98)       (98)      (98)
Provision of school furniture for      600         20%       20%        20%       20%        20%
classrooms constructed by communities  classrooms  (120)     (120)      (120)     (120)      (120)
Provision of school furniture for pre-  144        33%       33%        33%
selected schools                       schools    (48)       (48)       (48)
Grants for
School-BDaed
Innovations
Implementation of project competitions  200                                       50%        50%
projects                                  (100)      (100)
* The proposed human resources development component is a function of the group of the beneficiaries which will be the same every year (100%). 



95                               Annex 12
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Project Implementation Schedule and Performance Indicators
Performance Indicators
Perfornance and impact would be measured against the objectives of the project, namely to
expand access at the secondary level, to improve the quality and effectiveness of secondary
education, to strengthen capacity in information-based decisioumaking and policy design, and to
support more dynamic and participatory school management. The tables below identify:
(a) the indicators used to measure progress in meeting each objective;
(b) the expected impact (quantitative or qualitative);
(c) methodology to be used in gathering information;
(d) the level of observation since some impacts are expected to be observed at the level of
the educational system, others at the level of the institutional capacity of the MEC, and
others can best be discerned at the micro-level, either within the school or the classroom;
(e) the project area, either component or subcomponent, related to these expected impacts';
(f) whether (partial) results would be available for the mid-term review (MTR); and
(g) how the indicator would be evaluated under project impact studies2.
Obiective: Expand Access at the Secondary Level
Indicator             Expected         Methodology      Level of        Project  MTR?   Study
!___________________ Impact                              Observation    Area
Increase in gross     Raise            Education         System         H         Yes      IS
enrollment rate for   enrollment rate   Statistics System
grades 7 - 9           to 57% in year   -Dept. of
_  2000             Planning
Increase in the        Significant *   Education         System         II        Yes.    IS
percentage of those                    Statistics System
students who finish                    -Dept. of
6th grade entering 7th                 Planning
the next year
Reduction in number   Target: 0        Education         System          II        Yes      IS
of classrooms with                     Statistics System
over 50 students                       -Dept. of
_  Planrning 
'Education Statistics (ES), Acadenic Achievement Tests (AT), Policy Studies and Research and Impact Evaluation
(PS); Provision of Textbooks and Educational Materials (EM); Teacher Training CMI), School Management
Training (SM); Infrastructure Improvement (11); School-Based Innovations (SBO.
IS-Impact study (1999); SMTP - School Management and Teaching Practices Study - to be carnied out in 1996
and 1999; Other - ad-hoc, short-term evaluations carried out on a specific issue.



- 96 -
Annex 12
Paraguay
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Objective: Improve the Oualitv and Effectiveness of Secondary Education
Indicator                  Expected         Methodology   Level of         Project   MTR  Study
Impact                          Observation   AreaI
Increase in acadernic      10% increase in   Analysis of    System         EM, TT, No    IS
achievement in core skills    average scores in  SNEPE data                SM, II,
9th grade                                      SBI
mathematics and
Spanish between
1997 and 1999
Increase in number of      Target by the    Analysis by     System         PS        Yes   IS
effective teaching days in the  Year 2000: 200   Planning
year                                        Department
Reduction in the drop-out    Significant *  Education       System         EM, TT, Yes   IS
rate                                        Statistics                     SMI, II,
System - Dept.                SBI
of Planning
Reduction in the repetition    Significant *  Education     System         EM, TT, Yes   IS
rate                                        Statistics                     Sm. II.
System - Dept.                SBI
of Planning
Increase in time on academic  Significant *  Observation,    Classroom     EM, TT, No    SMTP
tasks within classroom                      interviews                     SM, SBI __      .
Modification of teaching   Satisfactory     Observation,    Classroom      EM, TT, No    SMTP
practices                             .     interviews                     SBI
Increased satisfaction of  Satisfactory      Focus group    School         EM, TT, No    SMTP
beneficiaries (teachers,                    interviews                     SM, II,
parents, students)                                                         SBI  -
Effective and sustained use   Satisfactory  Observation,    Classroom      EM, TT, No    SMTP
of educational materials in                 interviews                     Sm
the classroom
Consistency between        Satisfactory     Observation,    Classroom      ELM, TT, No    SMTP
classroom content and                       interviews                     SBI
curriculum
* Significant --- Quantitative targets to be established once base line determined. In the case of
repetition and drop-out rates, adjustments to the methodology for defining and processing these
statistics will permit accurate baseline calculation during 1996.



- 97 -
Annex 12
Paraguay
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Obiective: Support More Dynamic and Participatory School Management
Indicator                 Expected        Methodology    Level of        Project  MTR?  Study
Impact                         Observation   Area
Improvement in the        Satisfactory    Observation,    School         EM, SM   No      SMTP
maintenance, restocking and               interviews
care for school resources
Increase in participatory  Satisfactory   Interviews,     School         SM       No      SMTP
desicionmaking process in                 focus groups
the educational community                                                        .
Increase in the ability to  Satisfactory  Interviews,     School         SM       No      SMTP
solve school conflicts locally            focus groups
l Improvement in the ability of Satisfactory  Focus groups,   School      SM, II   No      SMTP
parents' associations to                  document
manage resources         I_review
Obiective: Strenethen Capacitv in Information-Based Decisionmakin-e and Policy Deszrn
Indicator                 Expected        Methodology    Level of       Project   MTR?  Study
Impact                         Observation    Area
Consistency between        Satisfactory   Document        MEC            PS       Yes    Other
recommendations of policy                 review
studies and policy decisions  _
Correlation between teacher  Satisfactory  Document       hEC            AT       No      Other
evaluation of student and                 review
SNEPE test results                              _
L.evel of knowledge of key    Significant *  Interviews   MEC            ES       Yes    Other
educational statistics by              %
system managers
Evidence of incorporation of Satisfactory  Document        MEC           AT, TT   No      Other
SNEPE results into                        review
orientation and content of
in-service teacher training      _
Number of school-based     Significant    Document        hlEC           AT, SM, No       Other
grants which incorporate                  review                         SBI
information on academic
achievement                                                           _
Presence of educational    Significant *  Observation      School        ES, SM   No      SlMTP
information and publications
at local level
Quality and reliability of  Satisfactory  Document        System         ES       No      Other
educational statistics                    review, audit   I_I_I_I



- 98 -
Annex 13
PARAGUAY
Secondary Education Improvement Project
Bank Supervision Plan
Supervision Strategy
Supervision of the proposed project would have three main areas of emphasis:
* assessing quality control to ensure project benefits are realized;
* monitoring compliance with the legal and admninistrative requirements of project
implementation;
* building an on-going sector policy dialogue with Government
Supervision tasks would include the following:
Project Launch: A Project Launch Workshop would be held on a date close to project
effectiveness to ensure all operational procedures are in place, present the final outlines of
the proposed project to key stakeholders in education and the general public, review
eligible expenditures for retroactive financing and discuss the first Annual Implementation
Plan.
Annual Strategic Planning Workshops: These workshops, held in the first quarter of
each year (CY), would be organized by the PCU, chaired by the Minister of Education (or
the Vice-Minister as designated) and attended by all relevant MEC managers and staff, the
Executive Director of the Education Reform Council and interested members, the
Coordinator of the Primary Education Project PCU, and IBRD staff. The purpose of
these annual workshops would be to: (a) present and discuss the annual progress report on
project implementation; (b) review sector performance indicators; (c) review findings of
policy studies and impact evaluations-to be financed by the proposed project; (d) update
project implementation targets, schedules and action plans; and (e) confirmn the
consistency of project activities with evolving sector strategies and institutional structures.
Supervision of compliance with the legal and administrative aspects of project
implementation would be carried out during the mission as well.
Supervision Missions: Routine supervision missions would be held in the third quarter
(CY) of year 1, 2, 4 and 5 of project execution. Specialists would be included on specific
components depending on issues raised in the Annual Strategic Planning Workshops and
areas of emphasis in the annual work program.



Annex 13
- 99 -
Administrative and Procurement Review: This review would be held in Washington
between PCU, government and Bank staff to review the le,al, procurement and
admrinistrative aspects of project implementation. The purpose of this review would be to:
(a) assess the experience with procurement arrangements, (b) discuss the findings of the
first independent audit, and (c) analyze the disbursement profile and arrangements,
including experience with the budgeting and disbursement of counterpart funds.
Mid-Term Review: A joint Bank-Governnent Mid-Term Review would be carried out no
later than 34 months after the date of project effectiveness, with prior Bank approval of
specific terms of reference. The Mid-Term Review would be co-financed by the Bank,
Government and specialized agencies invited to participate (UNESCO, UNICEF).
Project Completion Mission: A Project Completion Mission would be carried out in the
final months of project implementation. The mnission would review the status of finalizing
disbursements and other arrangements for project completion, and would agree on actions
to be taken for preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.
Desk Supervision from Headquarters: The Task Manager would be responsible for desk
supervision of the project, including all prior review functions, troubleshooting, client
consultations and coordination with other Bank divisions (8 staffwieeks annual average).
Supervision Plan
See attached matrix for scheduling and composition of missions.
Resource Requirements'
Staffweeks (including    US$ (1995
nissions and desk        constant prices)
supervision)
Fixed. Costs2     Variable      Total
Bank      Consultants                      Costs3         Costs
Year 1    13        3               19,019            40,350         59,369
Year 2     14        4              20,482            38,400         58,882
Year 3.   13         7              19,019            49,600         68,619
Year 4     12        4              17,556            38,400         55,956
Year 5    12        4               17,556            38,400         55,956
Year 6     6         0               8,778             8,700         17,478
1For each annual implementation review PCU would contract international technical experts (4-S20,000
all inclusive) to review quality and Bank would finance two component specialists. Governrment would
finance SUS40,000 in consultant and other costs associated with the Mid-Term Review. Cross-support
would be sought for technical quality control of the Integrated Household Survey (10 weeks 1996/97).
2 Includes imputed Task Manager and Bank Sector Specialist net salaries.
3 Includes mission travel and consultant fees.



Supervision Tn6 Mis5io  Schdule
Ye;r I           Year 2              Year 3              Year 4             Year 5             Year 6
Semester 1  Project Launch   Anninl Strategic    Annunil Straitegic    Annutal Strategic   Anniual Strategic   Project Comipletion
(I week)         Planninzg           Planning            Planniing          Plannting          Missiozn
* TM             WVorkshop           Vorkshop             iVorkshop         WVorkshop          (I week)
* SS - Bank       (12 days)          (12 days)           (12 days)          (12 days)          * TM
* Procurement    * TM                * TM                * TM               * TM               * Disbursements
* Arcliitect     * SS - Bank         * SS - Bank         * SS - Bank        * SS - Bank
*R2 component      * 2 component        * 2 component     * 2 component
specialists        specialists         specialists        specialists
S cm ester 2  Supervision     A lininistrative atitI  Afitl- Term Revieip   Sup*ervision  Supervision
(12 days)        Procurement          (14 days)          (10 days)          (10 days)                                   0
* TM             Review              * TM                * TM               * TM
* SS - Bank      (I week in D.C.)    * SS - Bank         * SS-Bank          * SS-Bank
* Architect      * TM                * 2 component       * I component      * I component
* Textbook       * Procurement          specialists       specialist        specialist
Specialist     * Disbursements
* Audit Specialist
Supenrision
(10 days)
* TM
* SS - Bank
* I component
specialist
TM   Task Manager
SS - Bank = Sector Specialist from within Bank



- 101 -                             Annex 14
PARAGUAY
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project Files
Key Project Implementation Documents
Operational Manual (including Technical Annexes), Secondary Education Improvement Project -
NECES, MEC 1995
Administrative Manual (including Technical Annexes), Secondary Education Improvement
Project - NIECES, MEC 1995
Selected Project Preparation Documents
Haworth J. "Paraguay: Financing Sector Profile", LA1HR - working paper, September 1994.
Kamioka, N., "Paraguay - Education Sector Profile and Secondary Education", LAlHR -
working paper, August 1994.
MEC, Diagn6stico del Sistema de Formaci6n Docente, Departamento de Formaci6n y
Especializaci6n Docente, 1992.
MEC, Investigaci6n Diagn6stica de Departamentos que Procesan Datos, Departamento de
Planeamiento Educativo, May 1994.
MEC, Estudio de Planta Fisica - Nivel Medio v Terciario, Departamento de Construcion -
Departamento de Planeamiento Educativo, February 1994.
MEC, Seminario-Taller Sobre Sistema de Medicion del Rendimiento Academico de la Educaci6n
Secundaria - Conceptualizacion y Disefno, Departamento de Orientacion Educacional y
Vocacional, October 1994.
MEC, Ensefianza Media: Sintesis de Diabn6stico al Anlo 1992, Departamento de Planeamiento
Educativo, March 1993.
MEC, Provisi6n de Textos v Materiales - Encuesta de Opini6n, Departamento de Curriculum,
May 1995.
MEC/UCP, Sintesis del Diagn6stico Educativo. con Referencia a los Componentes del Provecto.
Julio 1994.
MEC, Seminario-Taller Internacional - Deconcentraci6n v Descentralizaci6n de la Educaci6n,
March 1994.
MEC, Guia para la Implementaci6n de la Educaci6n Escolar Basica (basic documents of the
revised curriculum grades 1-6, 1993; grades 7-9 1995), Departmento de Curriculum.









