Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24367
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39410; PPFB-P2170)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.5 MILLION
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
PARAGUAY
FOR A
PY- SECONDARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
06/21/2002
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay
Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Unit
Fri. docnument has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the perffnmnce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  l



f'T rnT1XTT,T'1X T-f%I TTI IA T 'LkTrLC'
C'.~uP1INNCY EA,U1 VPLEAN I S
(Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2002)
Currency Unit = Guarani (Gs.)
Gs. 5,035 = US$ 1.0
US$ 1.0 = 0.00020
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACE           Asociaci6n de Cooneraci6n Escolar (Parent Association)
CARE          Comisi6n Asesora de la Reforma Educativa
(Adv,i1nrv (Cnmimicnin fnr the Fiiic_itinn Rpfnrm)
CNACE         Coordinaci6n Nacional de la Asociaci6n de Cooperadoras Escolares
fKT,,+;-1e  D -+T  A r!rioir
*OfJl0f 1wS^   01 '.1  COOS fl r .L1*ufvA)
CONEC         Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n y Cultura (National'Council for Education and Culture)
"IC At de Recursos d- A                    IT       T-- R
HIID          Harvard Institute for International Development
(mstifuto de Desarroilo internacionai de ia Universidad de Harvard)
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IADB          Inter-American Development Bank (Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
MEC           Ministerio de Educaci6n y C'ultura (Ministry of Education)
MECES         Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Secundaria
(Secondary Education Improvement Project)
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PCU           Project Coordination Unit (Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto - UCP)
PIE           School-Based Innovation Project (Proyecto de Innovaci6n Escolar)
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SNEPE         Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo
(National Student Achievement Testing Syvtem)
UCP           Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto (Project Coordination Unit)
ITDE          Unii±ad fannrtnmPnt nc1 A  Pvt,t-iutir-a (Ztnft. Stnt:tica1 I TTnitl
UPD           Unidad Pedag6gica Departamental
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Myma Alexander
Sector Manager:   Marito Garcia
Task Team Leader:    Cynthia Hobbs



PARAGUAY
SECONDTARY EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  13
8. Lessons LVearreu 
9. Partner Comments                                                               16
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              33
Annex 5. Ratings for Ac.hievement of Obiectives/Outputs of Corponents             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 36
Annex 7. Lisi o01 upporting - L cUUWIoe s                                         3






I n_:.  r nrI_. l                                                17A_l I_. nti C'nili  nfl nK &rl -II
r rJue t I1J. ruv 17i                                    IF"CJJe  iUVrWe. r I- aE.. LJ.r,LJ livIrl\ v
Team Leader: Cynthia Hobbs                               TLUnit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       I Report Date: June 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: PY- SECOND.ED iMPRV                            L/0iriFVumber: SCL-39410;
PPFB-P2170
Country/Department: PARAGUAY                                            Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
SwecitUr/sub.e(tr: ES - 3CrZJlUW7yU£.U4 Z-U1IV
NE. I LJt- I D.o
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:.I- 01/08/931                             zjEffective: 02/07/96         02/0'196
Appraisal:  05/01/95                                 MTR: 11/25/98               12/01/98
Approval:  09V I                                   Closing:  ILI31/L20I         i2/3ii2001
Borrower/implementing Agency:  REPuuLIC Or PAKAGUAY/^iiNISTRKY IOF EDUCATiON
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Javeed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma Alexander                            Alain Colliou
Sector Manager:      Marito H. Garcia                          Gobind Nankani
Team Leader at ICR:  Cynthia Hobbs                             Julia van Domelen
ICR Primary Author:  Eleanor Schreiber
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(M-=14ioh1v Saticfc-tnrv R=Satisfitnr, 11=1afItnrv I=itfatni HL=-ichlev T Alcv I =1 ilk-lv I V=i Tnikieplv In Tn=Hi&hy1v
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
DBanfk erJUrfmance: a
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Obiective and Design. and of Ouality at Entrv
3.1 Original Objective:
In accordance with the CAS, the project aimed to reduce poverty through human resources development by
strengthening the education system. The project was designed in parallel with a major educational reform,
introduced by the Govermnent in 1989 foiiowing 35 years of dictatorship. lTe public education system
was plagued by variable but generally poor quality and low coverage, especially at the secondary level.
Management and decision-making were very fragmented despite a high level of central control.
An Education Advisory Council was formed in 1990 to analyze the education system and design a reform
program with participation of the Ministry of Education (MEC), school personnel, and representatives of
parent associations and the private sector. Reform guidelines were approved in 1992, just as the Bank
began the project identification-preparation process. The reform emphasized quality and coverage
improvements in a restructured basic education, that would combine primary and lower secondary
education, grades 1-9.
The project's broad development obiectives were to raise the quality, efficiency and coverage of lower
secondary education (grades 7-9) and to improve educational management. In support of these objectives,
it aimed to: (a) imDrove qualitv and efficiencv through provision of educational inputs and supports: (b)
expand access at the lower secondary level, with a focus on disadvantaged children, through infrastructure
provision; (c) support narticinatnrv schoml management; and (d) strengthen canacitv in informatinn-bahed
decision-making and policy design. The Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) extended a loan to
support a complementary operat.ion at the primary level.
3.2 Revised Obhertive:
No revisions were made to project objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The project comprised five components:
Cnmnonent A: Tnstitutional Strengthening (IJS$3.6 million or 9 nercent of original costs with
contingencies) included:
* development of an educational information and statistics system for use at the school, regional and
centr levels inchamng nromnn of een.uipmpent enrd trahmna
* development of a student assessment system for basic and upper secondary education, jointly with the
IlTer--rlrcr AeeonAl BarbI tT AD) to rnleasure and Mor-.to _,t-A_l ad+ ll ---A-.-erts
ULLL-Z1tk1V,I IL.ai LJ_~VQi~1VI11iP1L L2aIU l J1JLJ LU iIGU  au  niturIL  sLudem1 aCULU aLW,~V-4111'~La,
and
*   contracting of core educatiULUIl policy stuWles, irlg pUIUJULA ,I,,pact eVaioU .
Component B: rrovision of TextDooks and Educationai ivatenrais (USM6.66 miuiion or io percent of
original project costs with contingencies) comprised.
* provision of approximately 870,000 textbooks for students in grades 7-9 based on a revised
curriculum, 600 basic classroom libraries and 200 school libraries for secondary schools; and basic
classroom and teaching materials to complement the textbooks and related training for staff of the 18
state pedagogical units (UPDs) of the Ministry of Education (MEC); and
* provision of training, technical assistance and equipment to the Learning Resources Division of the
MEC and 1,248 local learning resource centers (CRAs).
- 2 -



Component C: Training for Teachers and School Managers (US$2.4 million or 6 percent of original
project costs with contingencies) included:
*   provision of training to some 10,000 teachers to effectively introduce the new curriculum  and
materials, and to 6,000 teachers to upgrade teaching skills in core subjects; and
a   provsiinn of training for approximately 240 schnno  inn-.rviwr-z I 110 nrinas nniid ofther
administrators on education reform issues, curriculum application and school management, and for
2,00 A ..e.Ar.be. of parernt wsociatins on th- r-f.-rr mar. on s   p  nor tor..n
Uornponen t ID: ITFTas-- ,.eA Upgrn   adTEx'               0           C.A io   o 5
~,UIIjJUI~iI1Il.a1111U"I I~UAV J FLJJaIUIJUr MMU lAJUIAPaI3UH U ILYP.34).0 IILUIiIUII VI J7  1*..AOII1L VI U1Ir,UIda
project costs with contingencies) comprised:
* construction, rehabilitation and substitution of classrooms and provision of furniture for the lower
secondary level schools based on overaii needs, poverty targeting and other eligibility criteria; some
114 schools were to be pre-selected for improvements by the MEC and an additional 600 new
classrooms would De built with community participation, based on parent association demand and
contributions.
Component E: Pilot Program for School-Based Innovations (US$1.1 million or 3 percent of original
project costs with contingencies) included:
* provision of grants of US$4,000 or less each to some 200 institutions to support school initiatives
designed to meet students' learning needs in the core subjects.
An estimated US$2.5 million or 6 percent of original project costs with contingencies was allocated for
project management.
3.4 Revised Components:
No formal revisions were judged necessary to project content. The original project design allowed for
flexibility for development of each component and permitted adjustment and improvement throughout
implementation. Notably, the school-based pilot projects, infrastructure supported by parent associations
and teacher training benefited from early implementation experience (section 4.2, below).
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project's overall quality at entry was satisfactory based on the relevant ICR assessment criteria. Of
particular importance were:
* consistency of project objectives and design with Government and Bank strategies;
*   ciualitv and clarity of proiect design;
* an inclusive approach to project preparation;
*   reasonably accurate assessment of Borrower implementation canacitvy and
* care in incorporation of lessons of prior experience and analysis of risks.
The project's design benefited from considerable and well-used preparation support. It was preceded by
iU.depth caono.rnio and poverty analyses. incluAed werer.  o  report n 101. a p I
review centered on the social sectors in 1992; a Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) discussed at the Board
in Decer.e 17799, artd a Fvv%.ay assessrre1nL akLd UdatLeU UeconoUic 1%JJUI L In 1779. 1.l BDaUk e.eLndeUd ia
Project Preparation Facility loan (PPF) and facilitated access to a Special Fund for Policy and Human
- 3 -



Resource Development (PhIMIJ) grant.  Parallel support was provided through preparation of a
medium-term strategy for the educational reform with assistance from the Harvard Institute for
International Development (HIID) and a Strategic Plan for the ParaRuavan Education Reform. 2020. was
published in 1996. Further, Bank identification and preparation missions were frequent and well staffed
with the requisite specialists (see Annex 4).
Similarly, project component design was clear and detailed. Taking into account implementation capacity
and experience, design was comparatively simple: of the main components, only infrastructure was
programmatic in design; the other components were delineated in detail. Throughout the preparation and
implementation processes, broad stakeholder participation was also incorporated. Participants included the
National Education Advisory Council (CONEC), MEC, regional and school-based personnel, and parent
and other public and vrivate sector representation. This approach undoubtedly contributed to the strong
support the project enjoyed throughout implementation, despite occasional differences of opinion among the
several interest groups, e.g. GONEC and the MEG.
Thp sztrnucture and rnmpsnnitinn nf the nrniect coordinatinn unit (Pr n) was well suiited to imnlPmPntatinn
demands. Located outside the MEC, but working closely with MEC officials and serving at the discretion
of seeveral mi"isters, it comprised technical antd adminis,Atrative slb-vits. An especially strong director led
project preparation and the first three years of implementation.
The Bank supported three prior education projects in Paraguay: a diversified secondary and technical and
vocaiOU4IA VUUL4L1U11 j1UJGI..L apJpIUVGU 1U L1GI..IUVVI 1704A. a ILuaL L IUIILay VuULUaL1IuI PLUJVG% UI MUGIIIUVI
1976; and a non-formal vocational training project approved in May 1976. However, poor economic
performance odunug u  I YO9ICs Weu to a iUiLUS HI BadiK Ieung. Le5Ssons mcUrporaUte inLCu l 1project design
were therefore largely drawn from education operations elsewhere. These included a shift from vocational
training to a focus on core skilis at tne lower secondary level to promote trainability; the development and
use of an educational assessment system to monitor student leaming; promotion of community
participation; and provision of teacher training at the school level, linked to use of textbooks and other
educational materials.
Risks identified were in the management area.  Procurement, disbursement and generally slow
implementation, characteristic of earlier projects in Paraguay in all sectors, were addressed through the
PCU structure and through carefully prepared operational and administrative manuals and annual plans.
Although priority was given to preparation of accounting procedures, difficulties were encountered in
practice that required constant monitoring to ensure transparency. A further risk was that of poor
coordination with developments at the primary level of the basic education cycle, assisted by the IADB.
While the projects complemented each other through consistent support for related reform elements, the
inter-bank coordination proved challenging, in part owing to different priorities and styles of the two banks.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
I fll t;U VIIIII Ul pUJGlJ UCVrIU1IIIVIIL UUJeSUVrN WaI 3Uu1UL%;LVIy.  I LC uUut 11111 UmVtulpillunIl
objectives were to improve the coverage, quality and efficiency of lower secondary education. For this
ICR, selected indicators serve as proxies for early gains in uhese areas. A fourtn and supporting
development objective was to improve educational management
- 4 -



*   Qualitv gains. as measured by the student assessment introduced under the oroiect, surmassed the
expected 10 percent in test scores for mathematics. Despite this significant gain, language scores
dropped by 2.9 nercent; due largely to complexities resullting from the coruntry's bilinmial (Spanish and
Guaranm) issues, as well as general lags in achievement of all reform-based quality improvements. The
results conme from sample andministrations and on.e censusv-based Administration of the assessmePnt at
grades 9 and 12 during the project implementation period. Further support for development and
i.natitutn,onlin'tion ofLhae Weseossmrnat sy-nctm am b-e crr-tl,A n8 p.AaAd ..nAar a new T -A fl ln.,
~~~~~~~~~~i AOLw v A     _A AP A_AA _A .OJOV_A AA . A lU/  A  LM A A*Ll  tfA~ _it _V 1_ A _ .A%  _ U1AA_A1 Al _T .LtwJ.  *tfAA l Uf._A_ AA
_vvv ag-    v iu i UIIIV  U wlama!uIauly. i i1USV lvIv U1UllbiIL laLI IUL UlS IV 1VaLIL drV olUUj HR,1UAdVU ILULII
about 42 percent during project preparation to 72 percent by 2000. The appraisal target, at 57 percent,
was exceedUed, as were U 'ut4,VVV new studentL piaucs piieu. i nese resuits reiiect higher aind more
immediate demand for student places in grades 7-9 than was anticipated, due in great part to the shift in
basic education from six to nine grades. Equity oDjectives, embedded in coverage goals, were only
partially achieved. Schools selected for upgrading were the poorest in their communities. However,
some of the poorest states benefited while others did not. In retrospect, the selection criteria for schools
expanded by the MEC (those to be expanded by parent associations were self-selected) mitigated
against the poorest rural regions. While poverty indices were adequate, the criterion that project
expenditures upgrade and expand existing primary schools by adding lower secondary classrooms,
likely worked against poor regions and communities that still lacked primary facilities. Still, the
significant expansion of enrollments benefited children who, in general, lacked access previously, and
on a national basis, the rural-urban differential was reduced over the project period.
*   Efficiency, as measured by student repetition and transition rates, improved under the project. The
progression rate of students moving from grade 7 to grade 8 increased from 82 percent in 1995 to 94
percent in 1999. From 1999 to 2001, the share of students repeating grade 7 declined from 2.4 percent
to 1.3 percent. While it is not possible to attribute these gains precisely to project activities, it is
reasonable to assume that they were due in part to planned quality of teaching improvements and
educational management gains as well as to availability of additional places in grades 7 to 9.
Nonetheless, cost efficiency for basic education, and the education sector overall, reauires thorough
review. Expenditure per student in grades 1-9 is not excessive (US$170 equivalent at the current
exchange rate). However- nersonnel exnenditures are high and Rector emnlovment requiires asessrement
to identify possibilities for savings.
*   Management impact is not measured here. However, the contribution of the institutional development
compo.enrt anrd r.anager.er.t -.-nt  of tih t- r cor.por.ents. have  A_.do..btedl  co+r.tieA +t
achievements in the core areas of quality, coverage and efficiency. In particular, the national student
A AA_AASsAeAS Ainc A AA+AXA -AT eA-_+;_AAI A_ A A*1_ sta-Isf  Sy  AAsS   4 +  I  iuui d Z AuA
a;ssi;luLLL allu tuun.auVillU  ; ;J6b1hlleM S MM C0IUUUmU U vuliu.ui, a C.tUILU  Ul eva`lU:UlL a--u
analysis.
With respect to development objectives, neither achievements nor shortfalls can be attributed solely to the
project. Tne pace of achievement of overaii reform efforts, including otner projects as well as regular
MEC activities, also had their respective impacts.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A. Institutional Strengthening (US$3.7 million or 11 percent of total project costs) (ICR
D-+ting: Qm4-sEztr- y).
LxaLuLI nJQu.3lan.LsJly 
Thle sub-coipulles fivr education statistics, student assessmnent and policy stuuies were fully implemented
The result was establishunent of the first reliable system with instruments and strategies to gather up-to-date
- 5-



informatinon to inform planning and nolicv develonment in the education sector. The component enhanced
professional capacity in management, improved the quality of macro and micro-level data, and provided
siupprt for tntata rn_o!!tinn at all aeminictrntive levels.
A I            Q gj.+4 -     m  T-hin, Ttnt -,---  -  ot.nfi rt,annrt4  inlpmpnttnfl Tt mnlhidlpel- (a
fl.A. tiUUt   Vna   V l to  IJ- tf.  *-t -£11k O I  .j._..._..l_. -          .. -      \I/
the design of the system, incorporating technical support and involving users at central, regional and local
le-vels; (b ' ln  nadpoulln        f.croo;     n   c :um,pe...r.'tuo  zt suh -eu Al ar.  -e.o
levels, with plans developed for gradual implementation at the school level. Under the component, statistics
and statistical bulletins were upda-ted and published for all ed-ucaional levels. -- planLed, hUe states went
forward to create statistical units (UDEs) to assess and agree on educational needs and priorities. Structure
and staffing of the units and existing education councils vary, but furtLher stan training and graduau
consolidation and institutionalization of these departnental structures would be an important legacy of the
project. The full use of the statistics for analysis and planning wiii aiso require furtner training at aii
administrative levels, and delays in publishing of annual data of up to a year require further reduction.
A.2. Student Assessment. The National Student Achievement Testing System (SNEPE) was developed
and introduced over the life of the project with Bank and IADB support. Activities centered on staff
training and technical support, system development and test application, and results dissemination and
analysis. The MEC unit responsible received high-quality technical assistance from regional experts prior
to, and early in, implementation that supported rapid progress with design. Some 400 state and local
coordinators received training to administer the assessment. The assessment, based on a standardized,
criterion-referenced design, is sample-based. It was piloted, beginning with grade 9 mathematics, in 1996.
Languages, sciences and social sciences were gradually added as were tests for grade 12. Initial
comparisons were carried out between 1997 and 1999. A census-based application was conducted in grade
9 in 1999 and is planned for grades 9 and 12 for 2002. The universal application of the assessment is
intended to evaluate the overall effects of the educational reform and monitor a complete cohort of students.
This subcomponent has become a point of reference for evaluation in the education system.
Commimication and feedback on results among the central regional and school levels have been initiated.
Further work remains to improve the quality of the tests, the establishment of expected performance
StonAdnk anrd the iiuse of renfltq at all levels.
A I PDo!.. S+dies.       n,,,h s o .er.nnt or.n ,1! mnhl,-uAdA 13A eitldies intpnerld to build the hbae fo
education policy on secondary education, incorporating updated data, analytical rigor, dissemination and
consimlnuia bulAung1. .ltI a..Ltudies, can ,,U.aat.VL,.t iLV  -- orS .01  futiors, ,ve  *n --  -area ov. _ . --
needs for secondary education, education financing, capacity of secondary school teachers, and options for
decenLtrallzatil. slu Ui,paL. evaluIo of ULV p1UL e U  VI  and dr Waa UIIUUVU, aIU UU1U1r III1cIILaLII,a aVuL- IIUI
study on the role of parent associations (ACEs) was added. While quality varied, the studies were
generally of satisfactory or better quality and all 14 were completed. By contrast, analysis of study results
and communication and feedback among the policy and various local actors was incomplete and represent
areas for future focus.
Component B: Textbooks, Educational Materials and Curriculum Support (US$8.1 milhon or 25
percent of total project costs) (ICR Rating: Satisfactory)
Component implementation was successful in providing teachers and students with resources that allowed
for the possibility of improved teaching and student achievement. Most notably, all students in grades 7-9
received textbooks of appropriate quality and presentation. A valuable by-product was that Paraguay's
local publishers improved the quality of their products, placing greater emphasis on the curricular
standards established under the Educational Reform. Plans to institutionalize the provision of educational
- 6 -



materials will be required to sustain results of the project and to strengthen the complementary,
school-based resource centers for teachers piloted under the project.
B.1. Textbooks and Materials. The project supported free provision of textbooks for all grade 7-9
students in mathematics, science, Spanish and Guarani, beginning with grade 7 in 1998. Social studies
textbooks were added during implementation. Under the project, some 1.67 million textbooks were
purchased and distributed to students in grades 7-9, exceeding the appraisal target of 0.87 million by some
92 percent. The additional texts were needed mainly to cover the unexpectedly high increase in enrollments
when grades 7-9 were included under the basic education reform program. Science kits, librarv books and
teacher guides and reference materials were also provided. Preparation and testing of materials were
efficiently executed- Technical sunnort enabled MEC's Denartment of Curriculumn the normative body
responsible for materials, to gain experience in evaluating the pedagogics as well as the graphics of
t,-zthnn1ke andi nther mntPrial<.
Despite good -eneral. qui-lity nf lat.vO%nn - nd otS.er mlr-tle. tawnhin,ltinn -ind rpi,Ziew sgesicot tha t thzE
should better reflect the various student cultures, especially visually, and show more consistency in subject
aLaLt%r LuVaL1tr,et Iu.u5SwIuL Lhe 11n., grades of basic tuuL.at.. VI WAr.LIVjJO &nUd LLQa1IJg fo;I tI LL,A.
editors would help in this regard. Better training for teachers on use of textbooks was also identified as a
IeeU. Il4iruILg fUo Ulu rougily IV,0VV te4achrsL  atL 'U1-e 'lower secondany le-vel was inadequae mie.n   of
content and timing to promote the most effective use of the materials. Timing of delivery of the textbooks
to tne schoois also required imnprovements over mne life of the project. ii addition, [he mechanisms for
institutionalizing the provision of textbooks and materials for basic education were not determined as
planned during the life of the project.
B.2. Learning Resource Centers (CRAs). In conjunction with provision of technical assistance to the
MEC Learning Resources Division, the planned 1,248 CRAs were established under the project at
individual schools. Based in existing facilities, the CRAs were designed to provide continuous support for
teachers, school directors and supervisors in the use of the new curriculum and materials in the classroom.
The objective was to provide a site, materials and equipment for exchange of experience and adaptation of
curriculum and materials to local conditions. Three basic models emerged for the CRAs, reflecting varying
socio-economic conditions. Early results showed considerable variation in use of the CRAs. While the
most useful served as intended, creating leaders among school and supervisory staff, the majority served as
more conventional resource libraries. The subcomponent effectively introduced computer technology as
both a teaching and learning tool. In some instances, it also drew the community into school support
activities. Plans for the future expansion of the CRAs incorporate staff orientation and training based on
the initial experience.
Comnonent C. Training for Teachers and School Managers (LJS$2.9 million or 8 nercent of total
project costs) (ICR Rating: Satisfactory)
The training provided for teachers and for parents and other ACE representatives surpassed quantitative
f-rna+. T.h.e f-nn  fnr t+ha A('Pc, ex.eAeA apvnaptonno i terr  nf nolifty onA re.-ta. tHwvrn-, tha.
quality of the teacher training did not meet project expectations. Given the importance of teacher training
fUr sapUpoVrtL oUIfa Lshe VLU e UILIvLUse  LL II allu, 1I1ULo ul- uUlJ b IVA Ufo   ..uu...auuio IrIIform, Uiis 0LIU%oIIjJiLpoIL,
while passable, was the least successful of the project. Still, the flexible project framework, employment of
a participatory approach, and regular expert facilitation pro-vided urough Baik supervision helped to
redirect the training toward the end of the project implementation period, resulting in promising pilots for
provision of continuous training and upgrading for practicing teachers. Tnese pilots are under evaluation
and may be expanded under the next Bank-funded project.
- 7 -



C.1. Teacher and School Director Training. Training was provided for 29,360 teachers and school
directors; nearly 40 percent more than anticipated. Quality nroblems emerged early on- as it became
evident that the training did not use the design envisaged. The project design followed general recognition
nf the need fnr onntinialii training nf edctorntns throughuit thpir career, rdesigned with stAkeholdpr
participation and delivered mainly on-the-job or locally. Unfortunately, early delivery of the training
reflected past methods and, therefore, weaknesses. dneimerig, deig.ed at the c  a-nd ----ed
at regional sites, was the familiar model. Poor communications between the MC  and teacher training
ausuI..ties', and a      I- by +e    LU toI  U L_+- c__L_uual co_AIUU fo; uraiiui g desigr,  a-dI: dliver,
prevailed.
Towards the middle of the project, the Bank intensified its support for the subcomponent, promoting
dialogue among the various interest groups and providing iecnnicai guidance, including workshops on
innovative training models in the region. A promising pilot program was launched in one state in 2000.
Other late activities included initiation of a process to establish organizational and curricular parameters
for the continuous development of educators from pre-service training forward. In hindsight, the appraisal
expectation for a reform of the teacher training system was too optimistic.  It underestimated the
complexity of the transition process essential for amassing support for, and developing, an effective
permanent training system.
C.2. Training for Community Participation. Under this subcomponent about 2,760 parents, 115 percent
of the targeted number, received training through the ACEs. These parents, representing about 1,380
schools, then conducted workshops at their respective schools for some 150,000 additional parents, 100
percent of those planned. Beyond the satisfactory quantitative achievements, the subcomponent surpassed
qualitative expectations. Using both educators and social promoters, the training supported a new kind of
informed participation and interest by the community in the substance and process of children's education.
This innovative approach gained attention in the region as a successful model. In particular, the training
led to the creation of a national parent-run group, the National Association of Parents Associations
(CNACE), to guide the ACEs in coordination with the MEC. CNACE, an initiative that stemmed entirely
from the enthusiasm of ACE members across the countrv, was able to gain parent renresentation by decree
in the MEC state management councils responsible for hiring and firing of teachers and curriculum
decisions. Tn addition, the trAining and active participation of pare.nts serv.ed to strengthen outco.m.es of thte
infrastructire and school improvement components of the project, and of the decentrlization process more
Th  ~ ~    .~-A  V  --   -4              TTI IT 1C A  11.. AC        -,  -
C-omponent DLI. UplsFa nUgr alUd Ex.panso fK1rt3tretS1. rllin          r4Vece.      f.
%_I    VUL1.LJ~U.R UI LAjU~U           I JIUII3U~U ULUIW kUOPIDJ.-t ILIUIIVIII 01 -t-J FulVunI, VI LUL4.
project costs) (ICR Rating: Satisfactory)
Construction and furnishing of school classrooms exceeded goals: the MEC built 1,720 classrooms
compared with 1,330 planned, and the parent associations (ACEs) built some i,230 compared with 1,i00
planned. This was possible as a result of lower than projected unit costs attributable largely to depreciation
of the Guarani and an increase in the loan share for works (see section 5.4).
Part of the training offered to ACE leaders referred to the contracting and financing of classroom
construction and was very effective. Social promoters were hired under the project to provide training and
on-site support through regular follow-up visits. ACEs received funds, materials or both to manage
classroom rehabilitation and expansion. To correct initial variations and ensure adequate construction
quality under ACE-managed projects, new methods were introduced under the component that have been
adopted broadly by the MEC, including the introduction of a mandatory construction foreman to oversee
- 8 -



the building projects. A similar system was developed to monitor small, local contracts for furniture
manufacture to ensure adequate quality. A computerized system for technical documentation was instituted
to facilitate contracting. It provides an archive that can be updated for permanent use in physical planning.
A practical manual for preventive maintenance for use by the community was also prepared and is
considered a model regionally and by Bank technical staff. The manual has been translated to English and
has been shared across the Bank's regions. Its exceptional qualities include its user-friendly presentation
nned its- onvPrqcrt nf ediwcatdinan materais and schnno groulnds, two issues rarely considered in school
maintenance plans. Overall, parents' inputs raised quality and accelerated the process through both
pn-tivipatio  ar.d i.nfnrmal , jprioaht  S.ill m.ntPner._r.  of s^hnno infr.^tn,rt-'hrp rpmnain an issipu
--e...3..   ... ...-..
especially in terms of financing, and more emphasis on linking infrastructure with local and curricular
nee,ds wouldA sX-nlk',e PaCi,e..
Component E. Pilot Program for School-based Innovations (PIE) (US$0.7 million or 2 percent of total
project costs) (ICR Rating: Highly Satisfactory)
The outcome of this comparativelv small but innovative component was highlv satisfactorv. The obiective
was to encourage gains in quality by drawing together teachers, school managers, and non-school personnel
to create innovative nrniects (PTFs) focused on local pedagogical issues. The PIEs were to sunnort the new
curriculum and teaching methods - especially through use of local resources and interactive teaching.
Tnitially, a r.ntrnl tpn.n .uwa nriorented thrniucyh trAining andtu etiusiv tniiro tn T Trioi2v They then de-v.eloned
criteria for preparing and selecting proposals based on potential for quality improvement and involvement
os- Q -1A.I nA thAr .- r.+  I  -,t.I -1  nr-I nn - l - c nrc11 ^Q nr.antc ^nA T.n-nr,nitt lcAnc Thrn, cnlar+a.*  ^n
initial 13 proposals, all from high-risk schools in poorer states of the country. In a second phase, nearly
2v0 proposals Were seLeLLte Uy state L4L.AJ11Utt1 , cooV1UudateU by Uth %.AILUQ1 LVM11, huai at   aiil
at better-off schools. Ultimately, 250 schools, 50 more than originally anticipated, and about 36,000
students benefited from he school-based proJects. t hLSe a-verage cUs'. of each PrI was bo4UUL $2,500.
Tne PiEs integrated different themes, materials and populations - school and community - to support
curriculum guidelines on teaching methods. They included school gardens, vocational, arts, and language
activities as well as student excursions. Most incorporated themes of values and citizenship, national
folklore, and communications. Initial results suggested a need for a good monitoring system, subsequently
developed, and supported dissemination of results in Paraguay and elsewhere, in view of the success of the
projects. Outcomes reconfirmed the positive results of participation and contributed in a practical way to
the decentralization process.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Data available at the time of appraisal did not permit a calculation of rate of return. However, unit cost
analysis was employed to support choice of cost-effective models for infrastructure and delivery systems.
For example, savings were anticipated from school-based training of teachers as distinct from centrally
based training requiring large-scale displacement of teachers (not achieved during the life of the project);
and costs of school construction carried out by ACEs were estimated at two-thirds those of private
contractors, with parental involvement also contributing to higher quality (achieved).
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The assessment system, the statistics system and the studies, provided the basis for information-based
- 9-



planning and policy development in the education sector. The institutional impact of other components also
had striking results. Notably, the growing participation and capacity of the ACEs and the schools,
themselves, through the PIEs, have contributed to a gradual move towards decentralization and generally
improved school management. Related creation or strengthening of decentralized management, e.g.,
establishment of state statistics units (UDEs) of the MEC, and of technical committees for the competitive
selection of PIEs, complemented this movement.
Institutional strengthening has also resulted from the training and experience gained by the staff of the
MEC irnit c nrPetpi at vqriniiQ wJminitrtivie levels tn siinnnrt nrniect execiit.nn With fiirther develonment
of teacher training programs and delivery mechanisms, and creation of a permanent textbook entity,
nAA.4;nl- ntih,tn.orl. -a n   --r. bee pAc.
It -Antfjna  nwJ,I4.,AU   01.nwtk- -
5, MaA,or Fffaetnrs Afife:na Imnlpmnpntgtfon and Outeomne
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
External as well as domestic economics had a negative impact on the Paraguayan budget during
mid-implementation of the project. Essentially, local counterpart funding was halted for all externally
financed projects. The Bank's share of financing under this project, mainly for infrastructure, was
increased for a period of 18 months through amendment to the Loan Agreement and satisfactorily resolved
the problem.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
*   Government changes and commitment to project objectives.   The project weathered  three
administrations and four changes in Ministers of Education. The entering administrations maintained
the key staff of the PCU for most of project implementatation. While the fairly rapid turnover of
Ministers necessitated extra orientation work by the PCU and the Bank, the project stayed on course
for several reasons. These included: (i) the strength of the reform effort and political support for the
education sector; (ii) the high quality and semi-autonomous status of the PCU managers and staff and
(iii) the firm commitment of the MEC staff involved in proiect implementation. All these factors served
to maintain continuity in project content and implementation despite political and economic instability.
*   Government monitoring of sector expenditures.  During project preparation, expenditures on
eduatiton were generally low and inadequate nt I ner cent of GDP. By 2001, that share had increns.ed
to 4.4 per cent of GDP, 22 per cent of public expenditures. The increase is explained in part by needed
,noacea in calar.es from 1022 to 1007 ann imn tpne'hina st_ff tor mppt the-PnrnIImPnt Penansinn
However, employment inefficiencies may also have contributed. Since further increases in the share of
resources                             --- -A..4- &-e -L , secto Axpe,. ..e &nd efflciency need t..o be Areview  T.-un is a
focus of the preparation, currently underway, for a new Bank-funded project.
*   Commitment to monitoring and evaluation. The project had clear, detailed requirements to monitor
project implementation, and results and reporting systems were carerully developed bD tie PCU. Tne
evaluation of project impact, particularly in relation to teacher performance, textbooks and community
participation, was included in the project studies subcomponent of the institutional component. Despite
continuous interest in moving forward on design and implementation of these evaluations, lack of
experience within the PCU led to delays and ultimately the need for outside technical assistance. A
global evaluation was contracted to an outside research entity in 2000 and completed at the end of
project implementation. Results were mixed in quality and lacked sufficient quantification. Late in
2001, a consultant was retained to assess the evaluation and identify areas of interest for further work
and policy consideration. This work was completed in May 2002. The usefulness of results for this
- 10 -



project would have been enhanced had experienced local staff been available to focus on baseline data
and designs for this work earlier in the project.
* Coordination among donors working in basic education. As noted, the linkages among curriculum,
the new materials and teacher trainting for Drimarv and lower secondarv education were weak points in
the project's evolution. Design inadequacies and the typical difficulties encountered in changing
teacher attitudes and teaching mpthods partialvy acncount for the results. A  mnrnnger presenre nf the'
Government and PCU in coordinating activities of the major donors, in particular those of the Bank
and the IA_DB, also could have helned to bring the two main onnor institi'tinc ,acr x1zAth ;tc sown
schedule and priorities, and the related technical assistance for basic education, together in a more
contributed to successful implementation of the assessment (SNEPE) and education statistics
compvOnveits.
5.3  4UV Factr ge,erll~y sub,JctS Sto 5i,,p.'e,71e,.ti&l Iage,l.cy C0,7., 01.
* Achievement of objectives and targets, and cost control. The MEC, through the PCU, was
co1uI-utLtL tLo proJect.L resuilt, allocated eAlleIntL LVLAUMal afLai LU Ulu Pi prUoLje, dilU d%aUVVGU VI
surpassed the original targets while carefully controlling project costs.
*   Timely disbursement of funds. Loan disbursements were delayed due to lack of counterpart funds,
mostly on account of country financial constraints, as noted above (section 5.1). An amendment to tne
Loan Agreement raised the Bank's share of financing of infrastructure expenditures and the Bank loan
was fully disbursed by-the original closing date.
* Project audits and the need for clarity in accounting. While considered adequate at the time of
project start-up, the project accounting system lacked clarity and transparency. During 1996-97, Bank
experts recommended that technical assistance be procured to develop a suitable system. The result did
not fit with Ministry of Finance practices and was therefore not useable. Early audits were delayed,
with the first received for 1997, and judged to have accounting problems. Turnover among project
financial administration coordinators, in part due to unsatisfactory performance, contributed to the
problem. The Bank included financial management technical assistance in all subsequent project
supervision missions, and a system was eventually developed that met both Bank and Government
reporting requirements. Consistent pressure by the Project's Executive Director to overcome the
accounting and auditing problems, and to keep accounts accurate and expenditures appropriate, was
also a deciding factor in resolving the issue.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$40.5 million, with a Bank loan of US$24.5 million,
covering 60 percent of total costs. The loan was fully disbursed by the original closing date, December 31,
2001. Disbursements lagged during 1997-99 when the local budget constraint was most severe, causing
them to slip from the original forecast by one year. Once the Bank increased its share of financing for that
neriod, disbursements regained momentum. During 2000. hudget constraints were overcome hy uine of
proceeds from a Taiwanese credit to cover local expenditures of about US$4.0 million. It is notable that
the strong PCU, timely adjustments to financing and the adlhere-n-e to th.e plannied project imnplementatin
schedule helped the project to the top of the performance list within the Bank's portfolio during the
1000!=)A Iwr.odn.   I a" rln,,na c toos   r^og,  p.rc re.A  rlx- TTUS42A') mi!ion. fl,x 8110c8t.io: of
",,  --O~J.  an. JO  n.^..  =- r"n~t  "-'   Y. J-. a - *  - -' t   _ . .J tJ.V..*Uhf'fll  cxAUt' " mfU'I'A l 
loan funds by category varied within reasonable ranges. Parents' contributions accounted for US$2.0
ilillUiol, appUoxllidately iha.lI UJ*aL VLU.II,dvd aL appiasbal.  Despi:e UV WglUlI iLdI1L. tUIUnI1lul iII lIocda
expenditure, principally in the works category owing to parents' participation, local currency depreciation
- 11 -



and increased loan financing. all Droiect components were fully executed at adequate or better levels of
quality.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely.
It is likely that project outputs and impact will be sustained as a result of growing demand for secondary
education, publicly perceived benefits of the project, the institutionalization of strengthened planning and
management functions and structures within the MEC, and the recognition of and financial support for
expansion of project initiatives under the new IADB-funded project. The increased central government
expenditures on education as a share of total public expenditures, from 1.2% to 3.2% on average per year
between 1980-89 and 1990-2000, is also a positive factor despite needs for improved efficiency. The
sustainability of the impact of the project is also predicted on the basis of the following specifics and agreed
activities:
* The project was rooted in a sound, long-term reform for the education sector and supported by
successor govemments.
*   Stakeholders, including techPrq_ MWC stIfF parents and other private and public individimsl _nd
entities with interests in education, were included consistently in the preparation and execution phases
of Lh.e project.
M T.he n4. o-l studer.h.mnr.nr.t fe-5dr,ster. (NyPP-..  ar. N.h.e ed-catio.m.o -t-stic- syster. are
being maintained by the MEC, the former with continuing IADB support; and a research unit created
UlUff Ui, pi UJOIU 1daa UVVII UOULLuLuu11a LZU W ituhl UIs JALtLULU IVI  a Lnvx I iaLuLu1j klol).
*   Tne increased involvement of pl±rnIw LHi scnoUUI m1uldgUrnent d  upgrFdUilg siiuwud cuuuUUe, Ubaseu on
positive results, in particular for school-building, rehabilitation and maintenance, and, increasingly, for
monitoring of educational quality. Tne IADB has inciuded funding for ACE support under its new
project, and parent involvement in the sector is furither ensured by the creation of the national CNACE
and legal representation of parents in the state education management counciis.
*   The school-based projects (PiEs), similarly involving local, community and educational inputs, should
enhance project benefits by contributing to strengthened school quality and accountability. Once again,
the IADB has agreed to fund an additional 600 projects over the next five years.
* Potential benefits of new teacher training models, to be significantly supported and expanded under the
next Bank-funded project and currently under preparation, should enhance project benefits.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The mainstreaming of project subcomponents into the regular MEC structure and other educational entities
has been largely accomplished, as follows:
* The new units (central, regional or both) for statistics, testing and research, the new programs for
teacher training, and the guidelines for school construction and maintenance, have been institutionalized
within the MEC structure.
- 12 -



*   The new LADB project for primary education also incorporates the teacher training models, ACE
involvement and school-based projects introduced under the Bank-assisted project, as mentioned above.
*   The CNACE, which grew out of the success of the project-assisted ACEs, was established as a
permanent organization.
The institutionalization of responsibility for providing textbooks and other educational materials remains
to be accomplished. However, it is expected that the new IADB and planned Bank projects will pursue an
aDDroDriate solution.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory
Bank support for identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was thorough. Every effort was
made to provide the relevant expertise, including staff and consuitanis. Tne appraisai ieam inciuded
specialists in testing, survey techniques, teacher training, economics, finance, textbooks, and planning and
decentralization. lhe Bank helped to secure both a PPF and a PIIUR grant for the detailed preparation
work. The Bank further encouraged the involvement of a broad array of stakeholders in the process. The
continuing relevance of the project and its outcomes reflects the suitability of its design vis a vis the larger
reform program and local implementation capacity.
7.2 Supervision:
Highly Satisfactory
The Bank's supervision of the project is rated highly satisfactory. A minimum of two field visits were
carried out each year during 1996-2001, including a mid-term review in 1998. Supervisory inputs from
headquarters, initially by telephone and later including video exchanges, were also constant. Through use
of a staff-consultant team, basically comprising the same individuals over the main period of
implementation, the Bank was able to identify and respond to client needs in a timely fashion. Extensive
technical assistance to reorient teacher training and strengthen accounting and auditing, in particular,
helped support the project. Additional supervisory techniques included bringing project management staff
to the Bank to receive organized or informal training and conducting full-day overview sessions on the
project in Paraguay with representatives of each component as well as local stakeholders. These proactive
techniques helped support open dialogue and a cooperative approach by the Bank and Borrower to
problem solving under the project.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
Satisfactory
Based on its thorough and innovative approaches to lending and supervision described above, the Bank's
performance was fully satisfactory. The Bank further demonstrated significant flexibility in responding to
client needs and an inclusive anproach to supervision. Its flexibilitv was especially notable in the effort to
facilitate project expenditure by raising the Bank's share of financing temporarily during the worst period
of budgetany constraint A fncui nn OtAkeholder participantin and on dissemination of proiect resnits was
also characteristic of the Bank's support. The Bank frequently met with the CONEC and initiated dialogue
',to le9ers of tuh.e teac.2.' ,ni ons gr.,ode to~ inr.1   th-r i policy Ascuina
- 13 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Satisfactory
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory. Despite the significant level of
outside technical support provided, project design was led by the MEC and incorporated stakeholder
inputs. The project design reflected the priorities identified in country and sector assessments, and in the
evolving educational reform. By mid-1994, the PCU manager responsible for the bulk of project
implementation was in place and helped significantly, as an experienced administrator, to complete
requirements for preparation of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory
The Government's participation in project execution was also satisfactory. The chief agencies involved
were the Ministry of Finance, the national planning department and the MEC. The Ministry of Finance
supported the project throughout execution through the regular exercise of its oversight functions. Despite
several delays in providing budgeted funds, the MOF readily approved the increase in Bank financing to
keep proiect activities underway during the period of severe budget constraint The planning entity
exercised less regular oversight of the project, and interest varied as directors changed. The MEC, in
addition to participating directly in the oroiect through its regular staff and line functions- never wavered
from full ,even in the start-up period and again in 1999 when the country's political and economic arenas
were Mnot imnQtable
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Highly Satisfactory
The project management team performed at a highly satisfactory level from project start-up through
r'nmpleti^n, hnth in the technical and administrative areas. T.he main evidennce of good performanne wac
the full and timely completion of project components. The PCU comprised a director and administrative
and technical uXnits. It .i,orked pn~crnitle.., to pno,ue ?IAC' .nte,uw,tin in. the pro,ect bu e., ,mx~Aoyed~~ adete
autonomy and authority to support smooth implementation. The director and the head of the technical unit
du-lr.g +U_ _   r .4 peio of`.__.lr.e,i___ti4_ wr  xeo.- --4 11y cor..peter.t a^.d Ao4r....te.''_,lndfiu..U;e
arose on the administrative side, as with the accounting problems, the director was able to act quickly to
resolve problems, including tu e rUerievlU of some $10,000 in stolen funlds. When schools reported
non-delivery of textbooks, the director moved to alter the contracting system to include direct delivery to
tne scnools. Tne technicai director ensured involvement of ivMEG and otmer staKenoiders in component
development and execution and was largely responsible for the generally strong support for project
activities. When a new Minister replaced the director in late 2000, the bulk of the project had been
completed and the incoming director cooperated fully with the Bank to finish outstanding activities.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
Based on imputs and achievements during preparation and implementation, the Borrower's performance
was satisfactory.  Government support and commitment were sufficient to carry out project
implementation even as other development projects floundered due to political or. economic constraints.
The PCU appropriately balanced autonomy with integration of MEC staff into project activities to ensure
overall support for the project, which remained a vital part of the ongoing sector reform.
- 14 -



8. Lessons Learned
*   Project design and the balance between detail and flexibility. Owing to concerns about national
implementation and technical capacity at the outset of project preparation, project design was simple,
comparatively fixed and detailed. The implementation experience yielded results along the way that
generally served to strengthen component design vis a vis achievement of development objectives and
output targets. The flexibility afforded to component development and change during execution (e.g. in
the teacher-training component, in the significant increase in textbooks provided and in the addition of
new subject texts) supported by both the Government and the Bank, was a central factor in
maintaining the vibrancy of the project and its relevance in an evolving reform process.
*   Political support and project ownership as predictors of implementation outcomes. The overall
political support for the project, derived from the general recognition of the need to strengthen basic
education in Paraguay, carried the project through periods of political and economic difficulties. An
important explanatory factor for this success, while other operations suffered delay or worse, lies in the
broad-based ownership of the project within the MEC. The semi-autonomous PCU was able to
successfully involve the relevant parties in the design and implementation processes while maintaining
effective administrative control of the proiect.
*   Difficulties introducing maior change and the usefulness of the demonstration effect and
dissemination of results. The teacher training experience demonstrated the typical obstacles to
introducinrg new panrdigns in entrenched educatinn systerns and the benefits of an incrermental
approach. The notion of continuous training of teachers, with experiential inputs from the teachers
themselve, was foreitp. to Sctalk-er-h.or at the1 hpcinnina nf the proi,ect Pilnt ef.forts Adeieunad and
introduced gradually over the course of implementation were ultimately well received.  The
school -base  r.rvre   pil-t were r,ot as diffic. It  -to A irtr-ue  bu  hei ostae  isr..
increased demand for similar opportunities.
*   Coordinating quality inputs under education projects. Despite the overall simplicity of project
design, tue coordinaiion of supporL for the new curiculum and teacmng methods fel snort. Tne mam
weakness from the Bank's perspective was in the content of teacher training. For reasons explored
immediately above, time is required to successfiully introduce major change. An earlier attempt to
target specific, partial quality improvements, e.g., teacher use of textbooks, might have facilitated
earlier quality gains on a limited scale.
*   Demand for more and better education and the importance of local stakeholder participation.
The project experience demonstrated the potential for creating demand for quality education and
enhancing related accountability at the school and local levels. The unexpected level of participation of
ACEs in school construction and, together with school personnel, in the school-based PIEs, led to
improvements in both quality and efficiency of resource use.
*   Importance of having an evaluation plan in place at project start-up. Despite the difficulties of
mounting initial impact evaluation designs, every effort should be made to do so. The value-added of
having baseline data with mid-term and later project results or broader sectoral changes is significant
for ensuring effective use of Droiect resources and signaling needs for change.
*   Involving the BRnr.wto.r in eoordinating donor<  The level of pmc-tical coopneAtion ac.hieved
between the Bank and other donors varies from project to project in accordance with project teams'
- 15 -



efforts on each side. but also with internal pressures and priorities of each. A stronger role by
government in coordinating the efforts of the two Banks and other donors could have benefited
Parag%uay's education reform.
9 Part_er Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A. INTRODUCCION
A comienzos de la decada del 90 y al inicio del proceso de transici6n a la democracia, se puso en marcha la
Reforma Educativa, que ha sido apoyada tanto en su inicio como en el proceso de ejecuci6n, por
actividades que se resumen:
Un diagn6stico profundo de la realidad educativa en el Paraguay se elabor6 por el Instituto de Desarrollo
Intemacional de la Universidad de Harvard (HIID). Tambien se hizo la integraci6n de la Comisi6n
Asesora de la Reforma Educativa (CARE), dependiente del MEC, cuya funci6n primordial era la de
formular "una reforma intearal del sistema educativo para_uavo." Esta experiencia institucional del CARE
ha servido de base para la posterior constituci6n del Consejo Nacional de Educaci6n y Cultura (CONEC).
Se destaca ademAs la participaci6n de la cooperaci6n intemacional en el proceso de la reforma educativa
tanto en el nbann tMrnicn cnmn en el finaniern  En eqte nrdfen se sitat el nrnommn srnrdnfn entrh Pi M-PC
y el HIID, que ademas del significativo aporte en el campo de la investigaci6n, del mejoramiento de la
c i   lns tInc r,,,nync ,uiin Ai,- h,n de! .iWC' ha apoyado a 1r ,-frniiAn de! P! an  At.. de
tfl,.pt..as .--         -n-k- -          - -,-.                          - *.-- ,.,..atflv..
la Reforma Educativa, Paraguay 2020.
Se estableci6 un programa de apoyo a la reforma de la educaci6n primaria, primero y segundo ciclo (10 al
-'O                   ____ A_tv_+_ 1                   T      r     _ A-    + T    A_1-1_ ___.
u gIauuJ, klJuyduu, LWC.11v y  ICiouii.llauicilarU pvil vi DarIico UlUiai1IllVLi'..Ilu Ur L'd.i:VaLUIlU. LI pLUyUvLU
diseniado inicialmente para el ciclo basico de la antigua estructura curricular de la educaci6n secundaria,
progaria que se ajusto para dar r espuesta a la reforma del tercer ciclo de la Educacion Escolar Basica (70
al 90 grado), fue el Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Secundaria (MECES),
financiado por el Banco Mundial.
A.1 Problematica vigente al inicio del Programa
A fnes de la decada del 80 y a comienzos del 90, los indicadores educativos demostraban la existencia de
una problematica que no ha podido ser resuelto a pesar de los esfuerzos en este ambito. Entre ellos se citan
un elevado porcentaje de analfabetismo (14.2%), un significativo deficit de escolaridad de la poblaci6n en
edad escolar (7 a 12 afios), y un elevado deficit en la educaci6n media (poblaci6n de 13 a 18 anios). Los
indicadores del momento demostraban, ademas, un incremento en los indices de deserci6n, de reprobaci6n y
de repitencia, indicadores que evidenciaban la ineficiencia interna del sistema educativo.
La gran proporci6n de nifios que abandonaban la escuela constituia la fuente mAs importante que
alimentaba el analfabetismo en el Paraguay. Esta problematica se agudizaba en la zona rural. donde la
retenci6n y el rendimiento escolar denotaban los niveles mas bajos. Durante este periodo una evidencia de
esta nroblematica se refleia en aue s6lo 54 de cada 100 nifios que ingresaban en la educaci6n pnrimaria
concluian el 6° grado (periodo 1988-1993).
Toda la problemAtica citada, se agudiza en la zona rural como reflejo de la prolongada inequidad existente
en el Tis.tmeI ..AAtcativo nn T j            A.mphlA Ap natn PC qiio Ae -AdI 100 - o -qu ingresaba-  a  t--= eUCLAtiVo
en la zona rural, solo 38 de ellos culminaban sus estudios primarios. Mientras la retenci6n escolar era de
- 16 -



73% en la zona urbana, era apenas de 42% en la zona rural (cohorte 1988-1993).
Respecto a la educaci6n secundaria, solo 47% de los alumnos que iniciaban el ler. curso Ilegaban al 6°
curso. Esto se agudiza cuando se relaciona el nftmero de alumnios que terninan la primaria y que ingresan a
la secundaria. La tasa de transici6n de la primaria a la secundaria era de 66% entre los aios 1988 y 1989.
La ineficiencia intema del sistema, reflejada a trav6s de los indicadores mencionados, es coherente con la
ineficiencia en la formaci6n de los educadores, la escasa pertinencia de los contenidos y metodos de
ensefianza-aprendizaje, la escasez de los recursos y materiales educativos, la insuficiente cantidad de
locales escolares en general y de escuelas completas en la zona rural y el excesivo centralismo, todos
factores vinculados con el problema de la calidad de la educaci6n. La problematica de la baja calidad,
conjuntamente con la ineficiencia interna del sistema y la gzran inequidad educativa, constituian a inicios
de la decada del 90 los graves problemas de la educaci6n paraguaya.
El Gobiemo recurri6 a dos fuentes intemacionales para responder a los desafios de la Reforma Educativa.
Solicit6 el apoyo del BID para el primer v segundo Ciclo de la Fducaccihn esnclar RBican v a! Banrn
Mundial para   Secundaria. En este marco, donde la educaci6n media no se sustrae de la realidad,
nrofndimdAndose el temai de inefiGienGi2 v la hqiq nAidd,  identfina disenfiA y petAapeiA el Prnamy.a de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Secundaria (MECES), el cual se constituye como la primera
fThe AP meiorammient.o de ia calidi2d de la erupIn ci6n secaniaria a mediianro y ia.n, ,lazo, a-.,sa
que la estrategia global seria la de dirigirse hacia los requeriniientos de corto plazo y la de establecer bases
arnalitir.oo ,noti.r.nncolnoale  msc4n,entnn esor p l m ,n^.dar. y l1r0 plaz..,
Lda UUaM..ria de i1.plerner,iaaU1Ui UU1 I 1Vriaia lvIL..-:LA Udb1e14a p.11II1UI.
* FULLece las eUUd,egIas gloUUaes elI gobierno, tawes coiniu ia moueriuzacion uei Estado, ia intervenci6n
del sector privado y la creaci6n de un sector puiblico que sea eficiente y eficaz en la provisi6n de
servicios sociaies basicos;
* Valorar y fortalecer la participaci6n comunitaria y social;
* Aprovechar ias experiencias exitosas ya existentes en el pais y en la regi6n; y
* Fortalecer la calidad de la educaci6n secundaria en el marco del proceso de reforma educativa.
B. LOS OBJETIVOS
Los objetivos del programa fueron:
*   Apoyar la imnplementaci6n de la Reforma Educativa;
* Mejorar la cobertura, la calidad y la eficacia de la educaci6n secundaria;
* Fortalecer la capacidad del MEC y de las unidades educativas para la gesti6n; y
* Acompafnar el proceso de descentralizaci6n educativa, en coordinaci6n con las politicas del MEC y del
Proyecto MEC-BID de la educaci6n primaria.
Para el cumplimiento de los obietivos propuestos, el programa qued6 estructurado v organizado en tomo a
cinco componentes y trece subcomponentes. Los componentes fueron: (i) Fortalecimiento Institucional,
(ii) Provisi6n de Textos; Material Educativn v Anoyo Curricuilar, (iii) Desarrollo de los Recu rsos
Humanos, (iv) Infraestructura Fisica y (v) Programa Piloto para Innovaciones Escolares.
- 17-



C. DISENO DEL PROGRAMA
A los seis anios del inicio del Programa MECES existe consenso de que los objetivos planteados
inicialmente han sido relevantes y pertinentes, y de alta consistencia con los componentes y
subcomponentes durante la vida entera del programa. Durante su ejecuci6n se han dado ajustes
fundamentalmente en las metas, los cronogramas y las actividades, de tal manera que respondiera en su
praxis a las necesidades y ajustes generados en el proceso de Reforma Educativa, lo cual ha sido
beneficioso. Esto demand6 un permanente seguimiento del cambiante proceso educativo y de la
cooperaci6n amplija de la comunidad educativa. Parece claro que el haber logrado este alto grado de apoyo
v la perfinencia de los nrogranmas de acci6n- exnlican la magnitud v la relevancia de los resqltadns
alcanzados por el Programa MECES.
Para afrontar los desaflos y riesgos que debia encarar el MECES, se concretaron acciones tendientes a
%-          &IAIIILL OsVIUU1sIw La i iiFax  ULi %. jaFlIa W.IUxl FaLa L3av   ia iLJljIl%l,iiIILa%.luII UVL
mismo;
o Se establVcio ur,a bua.lVgia Ur sNUgUImunUn UIwiiAoJ y 4duulisU1aUivU a c.;argo Ud la Ur,IUUdU oUrU1irUU1aUd
del Programa (UCP);
* Se obtuvieron medidas del Gobierno Nacional con la finalidad de asegurar la conirapartida nacionai; y
* Se puso en ejecuci6n un plan de sensibilizaci6n, haciendo conocer las caracteristicas y alcances del
Programa.
Componentes del Programa:
(i) Fortalecimiento institucional: Este componente ha buscado imnplementar actividades que posibiliten el
desarrollo y/o el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de produccion de informaciones gerenciales para el
mejoramiento de la gesti6n y la toma de decisiones a nivel central del MEC y de los establecimientos
escolares. En este sentido, el componente se ha organizado fundamentalmente en tomo a:
* El mejoramiento del sistema de estadistica educativa;
*   Constituci6n de un sistema de rendimiento academico; e
*   Investigaciones y estudios.
(ii) Provisi6n de Textos, Materiales Educativos y Apoyo Curricular: Este componente ha buscado la
dotaci6n de textos de calidad, materiales didacticos y bibliotecas escolares que meioren la calidad del
proceso ensenianza-aprendizaje, aumentando los logros educativos. Esto se ha organizado en tomo a los
siguientes subcomponentes:
a   Dontai6n de textoq e     mnterinlp. didacticos v hiblihtia-zs escorIwes;
*   Creaci6n de la divisi6n de recursos para el aprendizaje a nivel central del MEC; y
*   T,t!ooa4An Ad (r.-tros rla rtam,e.nt.ahu! da Rae'iireau a n e!- a] AprPn A,'
kiU) Jl I %i  U Ur, ijl JU *RUUaIUV3U.  W  WAV)IIIVIISL ia UwL,a4U. kaJ AWU I UULV%.VL VLJUqJUIb tlIuW UWL
nivel central y departamental mediante el gerenciamiento de programas de recursos humanos; (b) mejorar la
capaciutacin UdocniL  a U Veb eU uV a perspeci- va LeOLico-pldaCiUa que iIco1rpore metodologias aiternaivas,
que utilice 6ptimamente recursos didacticos novedosos y evalfie el proceso desde la practica cotidiana; y
asiniismo (c) afianzar la participaci6n de la comunidad educativa en ios procesos de- aprendizaje y gesti6n
escolar para generar mecanismos de eficiencia y eficacia.  En este componente se ha trabajado
- 18-



fundamentalmente a traves de los siguientes subcomponentes:
*   Fortalecimiento de la capacidad de implementaci6n de Programas de desarrollo de recursos
humanos del nivel central y departamental y
*   Capacitaci6n para la gesti6n escolar y la capacitaci6n a padres y madres de familia en la
comunidad educativa.
En forma experimental se ha generado una Experiencia Piloto de Capacitaci6n Docente, la cual se
experiment6 en cuatro departamentos geogrificos del pais, en el quinto ano de ejecuci6n del
Programa.
(iv) Infraestructura Fisica: Este componente ha tenido como objetivos: (a) contribuir a mejorar las
estrategias de nlaneamiento de la infraestructura; (b) meiorar la calidad de la infraestructura; (c) aumentar
la oferta del sistema escolar; y (d) incentivar la participaci6n de las comisiones de padres en el esfuerzo
parn wdicainr v qmnlir la infraettrtiira_ Se ha rgafni7Ado en torno a los siguientes subcomnonentes:
*   CrnctriCrriAn AP niilsi n fin rip nnlinr P1 dlfih-it pmictpntp,
*   Ampliaci6n y rehabilitaci6n de locales escolares;
:   MntenMCinientWo de la nueva irfraest-ctu ra e              a"c^ _on e! a   las comision.es de
padres; y
*   LDIotacuion ude iluuiai.i paia caua auia LvorsuuIua y pa los ev i     ympid
(v) Programa Piioto para lUrnovaciuOcs Escolares: Este cor.poner.e hla apunltauo a promLo-ver la
innovaci6n y complementar las actividades de otros componentes del MECES, mediante concurso de
proyectos de innovaci6n educativa. El objetivo pedagogico fue ei de responder de manerd iidividuaiizaua a
los problemas especificos detectados por la comunidad escolar y de buscar soluciones creativas que
mvolucren a los alumnos en un aprendizaje diferente.
D. EJECUCION DEL PROGRAMA
Transcurridos seis anios del inicio del Programa MECES, la experiencia permite visualizar que los objetivos
planteados han sido relevantes durante toda la ejecuci6n del Programa. Asimismo, ha permanecido la
consistencia en su disefio, lo cual refleja que se han identificado aquellos objetivos de alta pertinencia a las
necesidades reales del sector educativo, diagnosticados en la etapa de identificaci6n del Programa.
Ademas, es importante resaltar que las actividades propuestas para el logro de los objetivos, con algunas
excepciones que se describiran mas adelante, han sido pertinentes durante la vida entera del Programa.
Sin embargo, se menciona que en algunos casos, durante el proceso de ejecuci6n, se ha visualizado la
necesidad de realizar algunos ajustes en las actividades, en las metas y en los cronogramas,
fundamentalmente en coherencia al proceso de implementaci6n de la Reforma Educativa.
D.1 Descripci6n y anailsis de logros y carencias/debilidades del Programa
En este capitulo de la autoevaluaci6n del prestatario, se recurren fundamentalmente a dos instrumentos: por
un lado lo generado por el estudio Impacto del Programa, efectuado por el Centro Paraguayo de Estudios
Sociol6gicos (CPES), y por otro lado la Ayuda Memoria como instrumento de gesti6n utilizado durante el
proceso de implementaci6n del Programa y las distintas Misiones de evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial al
pr3ornma       Los resultados del Programa se referiran primeramente a los logros generales o globales y
luego aquellos referidos a los desempefios especificos de los componentes y subcomponentes.



D.2 La eficacia del Programa
El Programa ha dado muestra suficiente de una alta y amplia eficacia. Las metas cuantitativas, tanto las
inicialmente previstas como las ampliadas y modificadas con posterioridad, tuvieron un 6ptimo nivel de
cumplimiento. A continuaci6n, se citan algunos de los indicadores mas significativos que respaldan estas
conclusiones:
COMPONENTE Y SUBCOMPONENTE                                   INDICADORES D
LOGRO
ComDonente de Fortalecimiento Institucional
h   Estudios e Investigaciones                                      100%
*   Sistema de Rendimiento Academico                                100%
*   Sistema de Estadisticas Academicas                              100%
Componente Textos, Materiales Educativos v Apovo Curricular
Adquisici6n y distribuci6n de Textos                             192%
Adquisici6n y distrinuci6n de Kits de laboratorios               I 54%
Adquisici6n de materiales para bibliotecas                       185%
* Capac.Jtatat iiaauuonde s.f. . . aesuos ne usA- Lib.v s d   Textos, L.,,-as-  *SL. rn15
y Laboratorios
Co4nro- ....  de Aoesrro!!o d. Recorsos Unmanne
*   Capacitaci6n para la Gesti6n Escolar a Directores               218%
*   Canacitaci6n en asnectos nedag6gicos v administrativos de la    458%
Gesti6n Escolar
Capacitaci6n a padres y madres capacitadores                     115%
*   Capacitaci6n a padres y madres de faTnilia orientada a la       100%
participaci6n activa en la vida escolar
Comnonente de Infraestructura Fisica
*   Construcci6n de aulas con participaci6n comunitaria             112%
*   Total de construcci6n de aulas                                   129%
Comnonente de Innovaci6n Educativa (PIE)                             125%
D3 La calidad del Programa
Los resultados cualitativos, segium la opini6n de diversos actores expresada a traves de la evaluaciones
parciales, asi como en la del estudio de Impacto, han sido moderados o de menor logro que los
cuantitativos. Esto es posible atribuir a limitaciones que se presentaron en los ambitos institucionales.
Tambien es imDortante sefialar aue los logros cualitativos del Programa forman parte de un proceso de
transformaci6n socioeducativo complejo, ejecutado en el marco de un contexto social, cultural y politico no
siemnre favorable al cambio v a la innovaci6n. Se debe resaltar que los cambios cualitativos requieren un
periodo mucho mas largo y sistematico para evidenciar sus resultados. Sin embargo, el estudio citado ha
coPfLLttdo qi4lpe el m1a1yo-r imnpc'to ct-inliv tvn se vP-rifirA t en lIn  trmpos de Ina gsqtiAn dei director In
formaci6n docente y el aprendizaje de los alumnos.
Se verific6, ademas, un mejoramiento en la gesti6n escolar entre los aiios 1997 y 2001. Se evidenci6 un
aILO IvUVV Ur, WulAJaUJw1.1dtu11 ralUrV 11) UOLUL.U1LD 3 IV)2 UJ.1AILVIVO, 3 V11U%, 15v3 uu1%1iL.U1O 3Y 1vFa)3 O J arULs3  luaI
sentido, la mayor apertura demostrada de los directores hacia los padres podria ser uno de los motivos
principales en este cambio inicial tendiente a Mejorar la fte-raf;o6n entre estos dos actores Uvntraes del
proceso educativo.
- 20 -



Igualmente se ha notado un aumento de organizaciones que han elaborado proyectos institucionales,
proceso en el cual intervinieron los diversos estamentos escolares. Sin embargo se ha notado una baja
participaci6n en estos proyectos de actores mAs estrictamente comunitarios; solamente el 24% de las
instituciones participantes en los PIEs lograron canalizar la intervenci6n de dichos actores.
Como leoci6n aprendida, se puede sefialar que en los procesos de cambio han sido incipientes la
participaci6n de actores externos a las instituciones educativas, y los cainbios importantes se han dado
"intramuros" de las escuelas. Por lo tanto, se deben continuar haciendo esfuerzos institucionales con el
prop6sitoi de ampliar la participaci6n en el proceso de cambio en la gesti6n escolar de los actores
comunitaios.
Se ha notado la existencia de mayor interes por los temas pedag6gicos y por la organizaci6n de actividades
extracurticulares, tanto ewasrretioies-entre 4ocentes como en los encuentros entre docentes y directores.
En la piActica dcente se percibi6 una mayor frecuencia del trabajo individual del trabajo en clase, si bien
en el ilan6 de las formas de ensefianza no se constataron variaciones significativas. Estas prActicas estan
relacibnadas con el mayor empleo de -los recursos y materiales educativos, asi como una mis asidua
util:aci6n de la biblioteca. Se ha notado ademAs una menor insistencia en el iust del ni.arr6n a favor de
una mayor frecuencia de uso de las "mesas de trabajo".
DA Los logros notables por su impacto en el sistema educativo, sobre la tendencia, eficacia, eficiencia
y ca-L;dad de! ;l e
Los datos e inform.acion.es generados par las es+.dt.s+iic,s edc;ia y brrddo  ol cS..rD1 har poid
caracterizar las tendencias recientes referidas a la cobertura o eficacia y a la eficiencia del sistema a nivel
de: 3er.L cLicl UV la Educaci6n Es-Aco-laar B3aasica, ialmbi'.oo die him-plernent'acio6n del Prog-lamd JvrS  Ls
indicadores mas llamativos observados en cuanto a las tendencias son:
*   Incremento sostenido de la matricula y de la tasa de escolarizaci6n en los periodos 1994-1999.
*   Crecimiento de !as instituciones dei sector pUDIlco, io cuai indica que ei aumento de ia cobertura se esta
llevando a cabo a traves de la demanda, fundamentalmente sobre la educaci6n puiblica.
*   La disminuci6n de la tasa de repitencia durante el mismo periodo y el aumento de los niveles de
retenci6n, aunque este fen6meno no puede atribuirse unilateralmente al Programa NMECES, sino a la
contribuci6n y la diversidad de estrategias implementadas conjuntamente con otros programas del
MEC.
El Programa MECES ha tenido un impacto notorio sobre el conjunto del sistema educativo,
fundamentalmente a partir de actividades generadas del componente Fortalecimiento Institucional:
(i) El labor del SNEPE (Sistema Nacional de Evaluaci6n del Proceso Educativo) permite contar con un
importante coniunto de datos confiables y accesibles para investigaciones y evaluaciones sobre el
rendimiento de los alumnos. La sistematizaci6n, actualizaci6n, mejoramiento de la calidad y amplia
difusi6n de las estadisticas educativas, fueron logrados a traves de las acciones implementadas por el
MECES. Tanto los datos generados por el SNEPE como por el Sistema de Estadistica Educativa se han
conntituido en anortes de informaciones confiables v relevantes nara tener una visi6n certera de la realidadt
resolviendose de esta manera una deficiencia institucional cr6nica. La importancia de estos dos sistemas se
traduce    - en l2nape.npntp u hii7ar1nn de 1a infonrnainnes por mv pn.rgados de ton.ar derin enp  mv
planos de las politicas educativas, el disenio y evaluaci6n de programas especificos, tanto a nivel nacional
-21-



como local.
(ii) En el desempeilo especifico del subcomponente Estadistica Educativa,.merece ser destacado por lo
innovativo y lo contributivo al proceso de desconcentraci6n y descentralizaci6n.  La puesta en
funcionamiento de las UDEs (Unidades Departamentales de Estadistica) permite, de una manera incipiente
actualmente y de una manera eficiente mas adelante, que la comunidad educativa, asi como las autoridades
locales, tengan un rapido acceso a infornaciones sobre la situaci6n educativa de su zona.
(iii) Los estudios e investigaciones'proporcionados por el MECES se caracterizan por su pertinencia y la
utilidad de sus resultados en la formulaci6n o en el ajuste de determinadas politicas aplicadas por la
Reforma.
(iv) Textos, bibliotecas y CRAs: En general. Ios directores; docentes; estudiantes y padres consideran qnte la
amplia distribuci6n de textos en las instituciones escolares constituye un cambio significativo en el proceso
nedap6cyicn v en la TrActiA dneente. .Yi-ztp tin firme. r.qnsnsn Pn nrnngidPrnr a pcta ini-1tiu  fnmnf ina do
las medidas de gran trascendencia por su impacto en el funcionamiento del sistema educativo, a pesar de
qnie han ex-istidno difiilltades en la Artist:ia An Aa.,,aAn xy nn rhino uA Inc t.,t-.s
La instalaci6n de las bibliotecas y la utilizaci6n de los Centros de Recursos para el Anrendizaie (CRRAs), en
los casos que se efectivizaron, tambien son concedidos como instrumentos y espacios de aprendizaje
dinAmicos y iitiles
°)trn tip In- imrtrir2T1tnP InornQ AP an  elrPn PI proPeso de Pe.o.a IPAtivoa- h. sid lA 1. .f-.;.A. de
equipos tecnicos a nivel central del MEC, cuya fiunci6n ha sido apoyar la preparaci6n de los aspectos
*.AflW de Lao ..a.iaaA.-- _o2, as .                          la , nl t aL,nLVt v conrno la A-+b-c   el cor.  At   ua ol dLAdex  y ruate,-,a:es
educativos.
(v) Desarrollo de Recursos Humanos: En esta Area se han visualizado logros que requieren de un adecuado
segui-alIuLU, wi I.uullu 1a oUfIe ue capacitacion oireiua por ei Programa iviECES que permitio ei acceso
y la posibilidad de revisi6n de modelos de gesti6n escolar y de nuevos metodos pedag6gicos en forma
masiva, aunque no dejaron ae presentar prooiemas y cuncuimades que aeDen ser resaltacos.
En cuanto a la capacitaci6n de padres y madres, aunque ha sido amplia, la participaci6n de los mismos se
centr6 en la gesti6n administrativa de los proyectos de construcci6n, aspecto donde se dieron logros de
suma importancia. De hecho, las Asociaciones de Cooperaci6n Escolar (ACEs) se constituyeron en agentes
efectivos para la obtenci6n y administraci6n de recursos.
(vi) Infraestructura Fisica: Este componente respondi6 a una de las demandas mas postergadas de las
comunidades educativas, el mejoramiento de las condiciones de los locales escolares y la ampliaci6n de
espacios educativos para el mejoramiento de la cobertura. Un punto de trascendencia en su disefio fue el
criterio de elegibilidad que respondiera a mejorar la equidad del sistema educativo. Con esta intenci6n, se
utilizaron los indicadores del mapa de las Necesidades Basicas Insatisfechas (NBI) para identificar las
areas mAs carenciadas. Aunque en la practica no se lleg6 a aplicar de una manera plena este principio de
equidad, se lograron avances en la perspectiva de ir meiorAndolo. anovando a las institucinnes de mis, altn
riesgo, localizadas en las zonas urbanas y rurales del pais. Este subcomponente ha sido uno de los que ha
tenidin mavor oind *1e tip ste d1irntre .ii etapt  de eier' iwini fiindqmeintlmePnte rpla-iniinh2f  a Inc fr-tp,4nc A.
elegibilidad y sus respectivos ajustes, durante el proceso de ejecuci6n de la Reforma Educativa y su
-22 -



La participaci6n activa de las ACEs y la metodologia de ejecuci6n del MECES utilizadas por estas
Asociaciones, tuvieron logros de alta efectividad en la calidad de las construcciones y en el abaratamiento
de la construcci6n de las aulas. En este sentido. es de destacar la incorporaci6n de los "Asistentes
Sociales," profesionales que acompafiaron a los padres y madres en todo el proceso de capacitaci6n y
seguimiento a la gesti6n en este comnonente. Este ha sido uno de los aspectos mas novedosos del trabaio
con las ACEs.   La estrategia de acci6n aplicada en este componente contribuy6 a crear condiciones
favorables para la sustentabilidad de los prvyectos de infraestruct-nr
(vii) T<! pr-. deA   s vE inPI. frnA.trodu ,na 1Ao ,4if._a t dieer. n ias escap,,as n,,p in anplirnn ya quep su
implementaci6n implic6 un cambio en las actividades que comunmente se realizaban en una instituci6n
escolar, aCtLIUVIUaUde que Vusc,alL irL.teQ co.MAJ1UUVO de LiWUULA.3 LaLA.at , U-ealAi  experi.encias educafu..vas
mas practicas y lograr un acercamiento de la escuela a la comunidad. El programa dio lugar a proyectos
sumarrien'te inersrle q-ueLu senauSsur e  o  fe.sepe.-ados. S"J vl emargot , suicro dific'uL4ades
en el sentido de que no siempre la elaboraci6n del proyecto se dio a un contexto participativo. Igualmente,
a pesar de ser uno de los componentes apreciados por ios estudiantes, aun no es aprovecnado de una
manera plena por los docentes para integrar y modificar sus prActicas de modo a mejorar el rendimiento de
los estudiantes, tal como se habia pianteado a! iniciar estos proyectos.
E. LECCIONES APRENDIDAS Y SOSTENIBILIDAD DEL PROGRAMA
(i) Fortalecer y consolidar el papel de las instancias institucionales y de los agentes educativos
promovidos por el MECES.     El MECES ha posibilitado la creaci6n y puesta en funcionamiento de
instancias institucionales, organizaciones y agentes tecnicos que requieren ser afianzados en sus respectivas
funciones. A nivel de la administraci6n central, es prioritario lograr un apoyo mAs amplio al SNEPE, de
modo a contar con los recursos necesarios para el mejor cumplimiento de sus funciones, ya que con los
recursos con que dispone actualmente, es dificil cumplir con las exigencias y necesidades de la complejidad
del sistema educativo. En el campo de la descentralizaci6n, es necesario acompafiar de manera mAs firrne y
sistematica las tareas encaradas por las UDEs, a fin de que la incipiente instalaci6n y funcionamiento
puedan ser fortalecidas tanto en recursos tecnicos como en equipamiento. De otra manera, esta iniciativa
podria entrar en una etapa de debilitamiento y serio riesgo en su funcionamiento.
(ii) Crear nuevos mecanismos y estrategias de investigaci6n. En complementaci6n a las medidas de
modemizaci6n institucional, seria conveniente redefinir el mecanismo encargado de definir, supervisar y
nrnmnver la ntilb7acGin de investigaciones v estudios en el camno de la educaci6n. Se sugiere aue a trav6s
del establecimiento de nuevas modalidades, este producto adquiera mayor y mAs esquematica relevancia
tfntn en la esmtpgia de investigaci6rin cnmn en el desarrollo, eiecnci6n y evaiuaci6n de las noliticaq
educativas. Debe incluir la revisi6n de las funciones y operatividad de la Comisi6n de Estudios e
kLL) AaVesgacio.e . JjwFa
fundamentales de la Reforma Educativa es el principio de equidad. En este sentido, se deberia revisar el
U UbO  b de te.II crii, especid U 1ItevI en el caso UVd las iU'VlUvrI lesvuva ud aLjuelvu cImpoeuviILVa Ljuv UVJe Ile
directa incidencia en las acciones de inversi6n y utilizaci6n de recursos materiales y financieros. Dentro de
ese marco, luego de las diIerentes medidas de apUicacindell UPI rograMla ivEES, Se sugicre iuentificar areas
o zonas que demanden una atenci6n prioritaria para mejorar las condiciones de inequidad educativa y
social, previendo ademas acciones coherentes y consistentes con meac'das integraies a corto y meaiano
plazo.
(iv) Ajustar o modificar los contenidos y estrategias de capacitacidn. Las experiencias recogidas en este
-23 -



campo por el Programa MECES y las dificultades encontradas durante la ejecuci6n del desarrollo de
recursos humanos indica la urgencia de considerar el ajuste de su contenido, como asi tambien la estrategia
de implementaci6n. La experiencia recogida en este campo por la Experiencia Piloto de Capacitaci6n,
puesta en marcha por el Programa en cuatro departamentos geograficos en su uiltimo anio de
implementaci6n, se considera como una opci6n a ser consolidada. Continuia pendiente la necesidad de
definir los contenidos de los m6dulos para que respondan realmente a las necesidades de los docentes, en
cuanto a sus experiencias y a sus realidades. Resulta imprescindible, ademas, enfatizar la profundizaci6n
del conocimiento y el uso de practicas pedag6gicas que estan siendo impulsadas por la Reforma Educativa.
Se deberia insistir en la difusi6n y en el funcionamiento de los Circulos Pedag6gicos de Aprendizaje dentro
de. lnq intitciones educativas; oqe deben estar acordes con los contenidos anlicados en los m6dulos de
capacitaci6n. Tambien se deberia prestar atenci6n especial, luego de las dificultades encontradas en la
e,ecuci6nde! Al Prgr%amaMAECES, en trmninos de monitnreo y seg imien.to.
(vA Co-.4..:dar. -. I.L.. I de, --.,c;A. -c-nln,. TTnn Ad las f^rfln.,.as Ade Prnoam-.a .WCflQ  n ha sidA a]
modelo de gesti6n promovido por dicho Programa. Por lo tanto, es recomendable que sea impulsado con
mlayul ULLL.VU0idUa. E.A LAUe rv.o UeLo a spL L.-oVrI..o,I UIApIL..Ua  que .aI dreccion de las ;r,stVciO.
educativas sea ejercida a partir de un estilo de gesti6n que combine la eficiencia con la capacidad de
negociacion y coordirion as                                            itevencionesde Cotos actores 5ucaauvu. iT,u; supone que I lo
docentes y los estudiantes participen individual y/o organizadamente en la gesti6n escolar y pedag6gica, con
el objeto de mejorar la calidad educativa.
(vi) Aflanzar elpapel de los actores de la comunidad educativa. Las ACEs y ia CNA ACE, (Coordinaci6n
Nacional de la Asociaci6n de Cooperadoras Escolares) alcanzaron peso significativo como agentes de
gesti6n administrativa y de presion, pero el deficit en ia participacion de la gestion pedagogica y educativa
es todavia notorio. Por lo tanto, es de alta prioridad apoyar a estas instancias, a los efectos de posibilitar
que asurnan un papel mas activo en dicho proceso y contribuyan de esta manera como agentes de
mejoramiento de la educaci6n secundaria. Queda pendiente reforzar las estrategias en futuros programas
de modo que los padres y madres, a traves de sus organizaciones, se constituyan en actores que participen
activamente en las decisiones de politica educativa y en la aplicaci6n de innovaciones y en medidas que
tiendan efectivamente a mejorar la calidad de la educaci6n.
F. RENDIMIENTO DEL PRESTATARIO
F.1. Resumen general
En general el prestatario. a juzgar. por los logros y productos del Programa, ha tenido una alta eficacia.
Cabria en este punto continuar discutiendo y analizando si ademAs ha sido eficiente en el sentido de como se
ha organi7ado y como se han planteado estrategias de eiecuci6n v su relaci6n resnecto a los recursos
financieros empleados.
En la estructura para la. organizaci6n de la gesti6n empleada mediante la Unidad Coordinadora del
n....,..,  Tf.Dz a  la Con -.-0+-;A/- A.de it-  nc. ai n,a  ,nn,,ion Ae estos con inc Aist;r.
instancias del MEC, ha sido un tema que se habia analizado en diversas oportunidades y que se ha llevado a
situiacionies ud clrsi. rui lo LUIILU, el aarla l UIs U de OW-VUer~lefiViUV de L.tuull conL e  euaLv6m udVVLa sri
un punto a ser debatido ampliamente. Se han evidenciado durante los anios de ejecuci6n del Programa,
momentos de alto riesgo para el Programa, relacionados con la UCP, el ral que eli ha cuMplido durante su
gesti6n, su interacci6n con los distintos fimcionarios del MEC y el niumero de consultores contratados para
la eficiente y oportuna ejecuci6n de las actividades. Esto se ha agudizado fiundamentaimente en momentos
de transici6n Politica.
-24-



En los primeros tres anios ha habido una debilidad administrativa dificil de superar, caracterizada por los
distintos cambios de especialistas en dicha area, asi como la dificultad en implementar mecanismos
administrativos de control y de gesti6n desde el inicio del Programa. Se ha logrado resolver estos
problemas luego de las misiones de evaluaci6n de medio temnino. Asimismo se han evidenciado notables
disparidades en el rendimiento tecnico y administrativo del Programa. Ha resultado dificultoso superar la
nrActica en comnortamientos estancos oue ha caracterizado a los tres niveles gerenciales: el tecnico; el
administrativo y el de contrataciones y licitaciones.
Otro aspecto que ha tenido sus implicancias y que ha generado dificultades en el proceso de cumplimiento
npe-rtimen pn  c  ronoc pcta       nc  ha sido   n rnol,An en forma nnnrhina de ios f;or.do de
contrapartida local. Este tema se halla relacionado fundamentalmente a los problemas fmancieros del pais.
F.2. Resumen de las principales dilicultades detectadas en el aspecto administrativo durante el
uvurfumo uti de;ugPgama.
En ei inicio de la ejecucion del Progra-ma, un aspecto importante ha sido ia carencia de un sistema de
informacion financiera y administrativa para permitir la obtenci6n de informaciones oportunas y confiables,
que pudiera satisfacer tanto a las normativas nacionales como los requerimientos del Banco. La UCP
efectu6 un gran esfuerzo para la aplicaci6n de un sistema de contabilidad llamado BRAINS, para la
actualizaci6n de la contabilidad del Programna. Este sistema no pudo ser implementado, y por esta raz6n los
trabajos de revisi6n anual de la gesti6n fmanciera del Programa por parte de la auditoria extema fueron
dificultosa en los primeros tres a-nos, dado que no se contaba con la informaci6n pertinente. Con asistencia
tecnica, la UCP finalmente pudo preparar y presentar al Banco, en el penultimo anio, un sistema de
informaci6n administrativa financiera que compaginaba la informaci6n requerida por el Banco y por el
Ministerio de Hacienda. Esto facilit6 todos los procesos de administracion fmanciera del Programa durante
los filtimos dos afios y asegura un sistema instalado para la ejecuci6n del nuevo proyecto.
Por otra parte, para la ejecuci6n del Programa y como un requerimiento del Convenio de Prestamo, la UCP
debia contar con los Manuales de Procedimientos Administrativos y de Organizaci6n y Funciones. En
reiteradas ocasiones hubo requerimiento de parte de las misiones del Banco en tal sentido. Para el efecto
fueron contratadas inclusive los servicios de consultores extemos, sin que se pudieran lograr los resultados
esperados en el plazo establecido. La UCP pudo realizar la tarea encomendada y fmalmente el Banco
aprobS los manuales.
IA eiecuci6n del Proerama ha sufriddo desniveles en su parte administrativa; esto commo cAfnsedenria, en
parte, a los numerosos cambios en el cargo de Administrador del MECES (cuatro veces en 2.5 anos) y la
f.alta de coordinaciAn entre los gpos adninistrativos y tMrnninq Se invirtiA Pin qasict1nria tAcnina para
eventualmente fortalecer el equipo administrativo.
La falta de desembolsos oportunos de recursos de contrapartida, asi como las lirritaeiones en la distribuci6n
uel rPlar UV C.aja Udi ivLLA.s, L..biUiaLi d.if.icLau'a  ein algunvlJa ejercicivs la buera ejeuciov UVi r ioUQiad.
Debido a este obstaculo, se discuti6 y se logr6 con el Banco el aumento de algunos de los porcentajes de
iiiaiciaueiie UC1 d;LZUILU Ull e U respLcI-Va UdLVgUia de gasto. Esto pen-riiuui acelerar ia uuiizacion aei
credito, quedando a cargo del Gobierno la inyecci6n de imnportantes recursos de contrapartida para la parte
final de la ejecuci6n del programa, lo cuai permiti6 aicanzar todas ias metas previstas. Es de destacar
tambien que el ahorro en la ejecuci6n de la contrapartida ha sido basicamente por la modificaci6n del
paripasu para el financiamiento de las obras y un costo de las construcciones que fue significativamente
menor de lo esperado.
- 25 -



G. EVALUACION DEL DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
La estrategia y el mecanismo implementados por las sucesivas Misiones de Evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial
ha cumplido un rol protag6nico. Ademas de cumplir el formalismo establecido, han acompafiado y han
tenido la suficiente sensibilidad, de modo a' apoyar los ajustes tecnicos generados por la compleja
problematica educativa, politica y social en la que se hallaba inmersa el MECES, caracterizada por su
amplitud y complejidad traducidas por los objetivos de los componentes, que se han caracterizado por ser
de naturaleza abarcativa. integral v permeable a todo el sistema educativo, trascendiendo el 3er. ciclo de la
Educaci6n Escolar Basica.
(D) Coflnanciers:
The project was not co-financed.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
None.
-26-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Lop. Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
" ,,- ndicatoMab1. 't&                                f     ';PSR14" -AEs                                . .
ITha kev develonmRnt imnact indicators are  I
(a) Gross enrollient rate for Grades 7-9  57%                                172%
raised to 57% by the year 2000;
(b) 10% increase in average scores in 9th  10% increase                       10.6% increase in Mathematics; 2.9%
grade mathemaicbs and Spanish between                                         decrease in Language (bilingual factors as
1997 and 1999;                                                                iikeiy cause)
(c) Satsfactory increase in parficipatory
retaniinn-mnkinn ann imnmvement in AGFE  Latiqflrtnni                        lHinhtv .ntIRfanti  r
ability to manage school resources
(d) Sa&bsfactory consistency between policy  Satisfactory                     Satisfactory mproriving)
study recommendations and policy decisions,
significant presence of educabonal
infornatfon and nua.iratinng a! th Inca! evel,
and satisfactory quality and reliability of
educabonal statiscs.
Output Indicators:
|  . - ;I..d'.w; Ba" .-^ ,4;i.|rel .3asn igi'..n-r4, ;' &;..                      ' OFIVIUMM&O U
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING:
_r ..        .4,.I,            nvv.__4   i' a 'arn k.     Ka oo 'n      n ta ank..i,.n,..n
bulletns and brochures with statistical  brochures.                          Ibrochures.
informaton.
Applicaton of pilot tests for Student  5 pilot tests.                         5 pilot tests.
Performance Assessment;
Execubon of core policy, impact evaluabon  13 studies.                        113 studies.
land other commissioned studies
TEXTBOOKS, EDUC. MATERIALS AND
|CURRICULAR SUPPORT:
Purchase and distributon of textbooks,  1867,000 textbooks; 800 science kits;  1,665.000 textbooks; 1,234 science kits;
science kits and educatonal materials for  materials for 800 libradies.      |materials for 1,480 libraries.
TRAINING FOR TEACHERS AND
SCHOOL MANAGERS:                                                              I
ITraining of teachers in use of textbooks.  1 0.000 teachers.                 115,200 teachers.
Training of school principals and central and 11,100 principals; 240 professionals.  12,400 principals; 1,100 professionals.
iregional level professionals in key aspects of
W-,OO  mram-gmentIII
Training of parent members of parent   2,400 parent trainers and 150,000 parents.  2,760 parent trainers and 150,000 in
lassociabons (ACEs).                   I                                      Ireplication workshops (given by trained
I                  I                                      |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~parents).I
|INFRASTRUCTURE UPGRADING AND          |
EXPANSION:
Construction of classrooms and provision of 1600 classrooms constructed by ACEs  1,230 classroorns constructed and fumished
I  . -                                I-  _ -  1A,A_A   ..A f.-IokoA .. 4AA   ,A4hAC -            ,L.sA flA 
scnooi iumiture for these ulasaluorns.  I(e.a.4..:n and fu  ,s .ed an  144    |w.. ACE- pa",;o    an 490. wnsu 
SCF1001 TUMIUJrO IOr thew ci"smm.      schools expanded by MEC.               Iby MEC.
IPILOT PROGRAM FOR SCHOOL-BASED
INNOVATIONS:
|Grants for school-based innovation projects 1200 projects                    1250 projects
End of project
-27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
-  _         ~     ~~~~~~ A1  M    i1 4'ctu!dUl/t-st  Peircentie'5f
.~4-jf 'f rojectf(cdstsByComponentt 4I jF .                 .tUSebmiIIon   ________--____
A. Institutional strengthening                    j
A. 1 Development of an Education Statistics System  0.80         0.90            105
A.2 Development of a Student Assessment System    2.20           2.20            102
A.3 Policy Studies, Research and Impact Evaluations  0.60        0.65            105
B. Provision of textbooks, educational materials and
curricular support
B.l Textbooks, libraries, educational materials   5.30          6.50            122
B=2 Denartmental Pedagogical UInits               0.80          1.00            122
B.3 Curriculum Learning Resource Division         0.50          0.65            123
C. Training for teachers, school managers and parents
C.l 1fdvomr at cer.tra1 a.A Adet 1-1 I6                         1.90            121
C.2 Training for school management                 0.50          0.60            121
D. mirastruciure upgrading anj Expansion         l 
|D.I Constructionof new classrooms             |13.40            8.10            61
D.2 Rehabilitation and expansion of schools       6.40           4.10            65
D.3 School maintenance                            0.95           0.70            69
D.4 School firniture                              2.80           2.50            89
E. Pilot Program for School-Based Innovations        1.10           0.70            66
F. Project Coordination Unit                         2.70           2.90            105
G. PPF                                           I   0.45           0.40            92
Total Project Costs            40.50          34.2             84
Total Finnninn Requiiredi         A40.50             34.2 I84
-28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E+   i                                    B o ndBiF.                        Tota ,Cost
I Works          4         0.00         10.30        8.80         0.00        19.10
wA~~~~ ~~~~~                 ,ns nn       ,- , s i   nrn hss 
I               I    k~~~u.m )  I  k4. I V)   k5.):U)  I   V.VV)       k / .DV)
2. Goods                    4.50         0.70        2.20         0.00        7.10
(3.80)       (0.60)      (1.60)       (0.00)       (6.00)
13. Textbooks and      1    2.70         0.00         0.20        0.00         2.90
Idistribution               (2.70)       (0.00)      (0.20)       (0.00)      (2.90)
14. Consulting Services     0.00         0.00         5.30        0.00         5.30
1                      [    (0.00)      (0.00)       (5.20)      (0.00)       (5.20)
15. Training                00 M10                                 0.00        1.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
L Schoo=asd                A0.00         0.00         0.90        0.00         0.90
|Innovation Sub-projects   (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.80)       (0.00)      (0.80)
1~~~~~~~                                      11~~' i'  'C  AC  C'f% C  A I  AC
I. FPF                      V.VU         0.V0        0.4,         V.VV        V.4J
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.45)       (0.00)       (0.45)
8. Operating Costs          0.00         0.00         i.80        0.00         i.80
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.90)       (0.00)      (0.90)
9. Recurrent Costs          0.00         0.00    |    0.00        1.90         1.90
I               I   ~~~~~~~~~(0.00)  1 (0.00)  1 (0.00)  1 (0.00)   1  (0.00)
Total                    7.20         11.00        20.40        1.90        40.50
(6.50)       (4.70)      (13.30)      (0.00)      (24.50)
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Ir~~~~~~1a ~~~YXtert MI,                                                    -. A'
_                                                        talX Cst
1. Works                                                 34.0 1  2.10  , 3.  1  2.00  12.60
5I .UUj       I    (i.00)   I   (i.6U)        (0.00)      (7.60u)  ]
12. Goods                |     2.60    |     1.10         2.00         0.00         5.70
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _ _    j  (2.50)        (1.00)       (2.00)        (0.00)       (5.50)
3. Textbooks and         1    3.60          1.40          0.60         0.00         5.60
Idistribution            |    (1.80)   |    (0.60)   |   (0.40)   |    (0.00)      (2.80)
14. Consulting Services  I     0.00    I    0.00     I    5.60    I    0.00     I   5.60    l
LTrnininn                I    (0.00)       (0.00)        (5.50)        (0.00)      (5.50)
6.  ___ Tr_ninn.                            0.00          .            0.00         1.40
__ _ _ _   (0.00)  (0.00)       (1.00)        (0.00)      (1.00)
|Innovation Sub-projects  |                                            (0.00)       (0.70)
t. ,,.                  I     u.uu     I V   .UU    1     .40          U.UU   U1.A40
(°.°°)_ _     (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)       (0.40)
8 Operating Costs        j     0.00         0.00          1             0.           1.60 0
I                        I    (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)   1    (0.00)       (1.00)
9. Recurrent Costs            0.00          0.00          0.00         0.60         0.60
i (0.00)  X    (0.00)       (0-00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                 |    11.30    |    4.60     T    15.70         2.60        34.20
!                        !_______________________ I  (9.30)  (2.60)  !  (12.60)  (0.00)  (24.50)
" Figures in Darenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
fthLeU plujed. mEa.anagi.IMUCIE Offli*CU- LII.1hn15, wetdUh.-HC1l aa-ZO-MSClA SC.DViCA.s, .in-cr-ement-aI p..a15  rCt IIlUU
managing the project and the repayment cost of the PPF loan.
- 30 -



ProJict Financina by Component (in USS million eauivalentl
Component           .a q                          rct.p .....El|int                 ofA    a
IA. lnstitait-nnsl    I  2. 17   1 AAS   I  0.0 n  I  2.64     1  no0  I  n0.00  1!2!.71 75.7    0.01
Strengthening                                            I
B. Provision of textbooks,  4.00  2.65      0.00  |   5.35      2.78     0.00    133.8 | 104.9  0.0
educational materials
and curricular support
C. Training ior teachers,  1.42   0.95      0.00      2.44      0.43      0.00    1 ii.8  45.3  U.U
school managers and
narents
D. Infrastructure       14.25     5.40   I  4.09      10.50  I  2.97   I  2.00    73.7   55.0   48.9
Upgrading and Expansion |
E. Pilot Program for     0.67     0.46      0.00      0.71      0.04      0.00   106.0   8.7    0.0
School-Based Innovations
F. Project Coordination  1.52     1.03      0.00      2.45      0.44   |  0.00    161.2  42.7   0.0
Unit
PPF                  |   0.45     0.00   |  0.00      0.42      0.00   |  0.00    93.3   0.0    0.0
TOTAL                   24.48     11.93     4.09     24.50      7.75   12.00      100.1  65.0 148.91
- 31 -



0.
:3
':p
tD
lo(
rn
1)
ID
:3
._
C)
O
ID)
0.
C,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q



A nnex A. Danr- TnpUtS
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No.;of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation I |Development
|       -        Month/Year    Count          - Specialty                     Progress     Objective
TAirdet:<ei4on.'Prepuz-ati.on
May 1995                    9    Economist, Consultants, Sr.
Education Sneciali-t
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1996                   6   Economist, Procurement
Analyst, Disbursement
Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist,
Evaluation Specialist
|Supervision 
November 1996                4   Economist, Education               S             HS
Specialists, Procurement
Analyst
May 1997                     6   Education Specialists, Evaluation  S             HS
Specialist, Financing Specialist,
Procurement Analyst,
infrastructure Specialist
November 1997                6   Education Specialists, Program      S             S
I sisbltaltr,, Financadl Mar,I aguemIent
I        l        | Specialists, Procurement Analyst
A...1 --iils     I I S                          ...          I                     ..
114)111 1770                              0FvUI.4 %II3~IdIL, I1bb
Disbursement Specialist,                   I
PIinnnar.i  Aana--mnt QSperinl;.c
|   December 1998  |         7 | Education Specialists, Impact      S
I  val.|iutinn Snpecin it
Procurement Analyst,
I Infrastructure Specialist   I             I             I
May 1999                     4   Education Specialists, Impact                     S
Evaluation Specialist, Financial I
Management Specialist
November 1999                2   Education Specialist, Financial     S      I      S
Management Specialist
May 2000                     4   Education Specialists,              S             S
Consultants
December 2000    |           4 | Education Specialists,              S             S
Consultants, Procurement
Analyst
June 2001        |           4   Education Specialists,       I                    S
I l            | Consultants
ICR        October 2001                 4    Education Specialists,             S             S
Financial Management
Specialists                 I             ! _
- 33 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  -                Actual/Latest Estimate
|  - |-- -  No. Staff week -          US$ ('1 38
T1not 2itiO-n rP1nration                                          432,687
Appraisal/Negotiation
Ia+e         M/A          I            )1 QQ1
_  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _   .     ,   ,            .             ' " '  . vv" '
Note: The Bank budget system does not register staff weeks and included Appraisal/Negotiation
exp1LuL--iu    i LUgUI[ WIUI iUV11LifiUaUU1ionrrepar4UU1oIU ard 1.ICR expen1dU1res il Supervisioln.
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Obiectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H OSUOM O N        * NA
U Sector Policies                     O H *SUOM       O N O NA
L Physical                            OH   *SUOM     ON    ONA
Li Financial                          OH   OSUOM     ON    *NA
L Institutional Development           0 H  0 SU 0 M 0 N 0 NA
Oi Environmental                      O H OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction             O H *SUOM       O N  O NA
LGender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
i Other (Please specify)        O H OSUOM       O N * NA
OI Private sector development         0 H O SU O M   0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
OI Other (Please speciJy)             O H OSUOM      O N * NA



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performanee
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
OI Lending                                         OHS OS OU OHU
Oi Suprvri&W HS) O S)                                           O U     \ O  U
O Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
O Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
O Government implementation performance            O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
OI Implementation agency performance               OHS O S      0 U    0 HU
LO Overall                                         OHS OS O U O HU
- 36 -



A.nnex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A. Preparation and Appraisal Documents:
World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Paraguay: Secondarv Education Improvement Proiect: August 18,
1995.
Correspondence Files, World Bank
B. Mid-Term Evaluation Documents (December 1998).
C. Project Closing and Evaluation Documents (April 2002).
D. Estudios e Investigaciones:
*   Estudio sobre Costo y Opciones Financieras. Aporte BIF (Julie Van Domeleny(1996).
*   Gesi vn    LaL  y cscolaryP-ac.ica  ocente I (PIIE-CPES)/(19
*   Estudio sobre Bilinguismo en el Marco de la Reforma Educativa (CPES)/(1998).
*   Repittencia Escolar y Variables Relacionadas I y Repitencia Escolar y Variables Relacionadas -
Sintesis y Comentarios II. Ing. Jose Luis Benza (1997-1998).
*   Perfi; de Escueias de Alto Riesgo (uCSA-EDAN).
*   La Descentralizaci6n y la Politica de Reformas Educativas (Domingo M. Rivarola)/(1998).
*   La Reiaci6n Educaci6n-Empresa: La Percepci6n del Empresario con Respecto a su Aporte a la
Educaci6n y la Manera de Potenciar la Misma. Sector Privado (UCSA)/(1998).
*   Educaci6n Media y Desarrollo (UCA)/(l 998-1999).
*   Gesti6n en el Marco de la Reforma Educativa (ISE-UIEP)/(2000).
*   Sistematizaci6n de los Datos, Estudios e Investigaciones sobre la Educaci6n Media (MEC)/(2000).
*   Docentes de la Educaci6n Media (eMe Asociados) (2000-2001).
* Gesti6n Escolar y Practica Docente I (incluido en el estudio de impacto).
*   Estudio del Impacto del Programa MECES (CPES) (2001).
*   Estudio sobre las ACEs (ISE)/(2001).
- 37 -









IMAGING
Neport No.:          24367
Type:     lCR



