Page  1
April 7, 1998
His Excellency 
Minister of Finance 
Chile 128 Asuncion, Paraguay
Re: PARAGUAY (Secondary Education Improvement Project)
Loan No. 3941-PA
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated September 18, 1995 entered into between 
the Republic of Paraguay (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank).
In response to the Borrower’s request to increase the prior review thresholds 
for consultants’ services, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as 
follows:
1.
 Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is hereby amended by replacing the amounts 
“$20,000 and $5,000” set forth in subparagraphs (c) and (d) therein, respectively, 
with the amounts “$50,000 and $20,000”.
2.
Paragraph 2 of Section II of Schedule 4 is hereby amended to read as 
follows:
“2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent each, with the exception of contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants to be hired by the PCU. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting 
firms raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$20,000 equivalent or above.”.
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall 
be an original.  Upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed original of this 
Amendment Letter, these amendments will be effective as of the date first above 
written.  
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the two counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Deborah A. Bateman 
Acting Director 
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, 
  Paraguay and Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
Page  2
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
H. Gerhard Doll
Minister of Finance
Date:
October 30, 1998
