Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3941-PA
                               Loan Agreement
                  (Secondary Education Improvement Project)
                                   between
                            REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated September 18, 1995
                                                         LOAN NUMBER 3941-PA
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated September 18, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
    WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth
in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
Page  2
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
    (a)   "Administrative Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory
to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the functions and
responsibilities and internal structure of the PCU; (ii) the positions of
the personnel to be employed by the PCU; (iii) the procurement and
disbursements procedures to be followed under the Project; and (iv) the
contents of the reports and plans to be furnished by the Borrower, through
MEC, to the Bank under the Project;
    (b)   "BCP" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco Central del
Paraguay);
    (c)   "Cost-Sharing Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to
in Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement;
    (d)   "DPU" means any of the Departmental Pedagogic Units (Unidades
Departamentales Pedagogicas) within MEC;
    (e)   "Eligible School" means a public school of Secondary Education in
Paraguay which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational
Manual;
    (f)   "Eligible Subproject" means a specific project, which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual, consisting of the
rehabilitation of classrooms and/or construction of classrooms and other
related school facilities, including the acquisition and utilization of
goods required therefor, all for the benefit of an Eligible School;
     (g)   "Guaranies" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (h)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith
from the Borrower to the Bank indicating the minimum amounts of counterpart
funds necessary to carry out the Project;
     (i)   "Law Decree No. 9.470" means Decreto Ley No. 9.470 of the
Borrower dated July 9, 1945 which established the organization of MEC, as
such Law Decree has been amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (j)   "MEC" means the Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educacion
y Culto) of the Borrower;
     (k)   "Operational Manual" means the Borrower's manual, satisfactory
to the Bank, which sets forth, inter alia: (i) the criteria for Eligible
Schools and Eligible Subprojects to be selected to participate in the
Project; (ii) the terms and conditions of a model Cost-Sharing Agreement;
(iii) the monitoring indicators of the Project; (iv) the eligibility
criteria for Research Proposals; and (v) the terms of reference of the
studies and technical assistance referred to in Parts A.5 and A.7 of the
Project, respectively;
     (l)   "Parents' Association" means a parent's association (duly
acknowledged by MEC) of an Eligible School;
     (m)   "PCU" means the Project coordination unit established within
MEC pursuant to Ministerial Resolution No. 2664 dated October 24, 1994;
     (n)   "Pilot Innovative Subproject" means a specific project which
meets the eligibility criteria to be furnished to the Bank as provided in
paragraph 3(d) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, consisting of the
acquisition and utilization of goods and provision of technical assistance
in order to increase student learning in, and improve performance of,
public schools of Secondary Education in Paraguay;
     (o)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter of
Agreement dated February 4, 1994, duly approved by the Borrower's Congress
on August 25, 1994;
     (p)   "Research Committee" means the committee to be established
pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
Page  3
     (q)   "Research Proposals" means a specific proposal which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to study selected
aspects of the education system in Paraguay;
     (r)   "Secondary Education" means grades seventh through twelfth, as
such classification of grades may be subject to modification from time to
time; and
     (s)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal
to twenty four million five hundred thousand Dollars ($24,500,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCP on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of
the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) carry out Parts
A.1 through A.4, A.7, A.8, B, C, D.1, E and F of the Project
through MEC; (ii) carry out Parts A.5 and A.6 of the Project
through MEC, with the assistance of the Research Committee; and
(iii) carry out Part D.2 of the Project through MEC, with the
Page  4
participation of the Parents' Associations (as referred to in
paragraph (b) below), all with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative,
financial, educational and environmental practices, and in
accordance with the Administrative Manual and Operational
Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   For purposes of carrying out each Eligible Subproject,
the Borrower, through MEC, shall enter into an agreement (the Cost-Sharing
Agreement) with the corresponding Parents' Association under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the
Operational Manual.
      (c)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall:
           (i)          make available each calendar year to MEC
                        until the completion of the Project,
                        starting in 1996, promptly as needed in
                        Guaranies, as counterpart funds for the
                        Project, the minimum amounts set forth in
                        the Implementation Letter, for a total
                        minimum amount equivalent to $12,000,000
                        during Project implementation;
           (ii)         not later than September 30 of each year
                        during Project implementation, starting in
                        1996, furnish to the Bank, for its review,
                        a copy of the Borrower's budget proposal
                        for MEC; and
           (iii)        within thirty days after the date in which
                        the Borrower's budget for MEC is approved
                        each calendar year, furnish to the Bank a
                        copy of such approved budget.
    (d)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, assign, abrogate, suspend, terminate, waive or
fail to enforce any Cost-Sharing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
    (e)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail to enforce
the Operational Manual or the Administrative Manual or any
provision thereof.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the works, goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the
General Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the
Borrower shall:
    (a)   prepare on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
    (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate and
maintain during Project implementation the PCU with functions
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank as set forth in
the Administrative Manual, including, inter alia, the
responsibility to coordinate and oversee the implementation of
Page  5
the Project; and (ii) establish, and thereafter operate and
maintain during Project implementation, a research committee
(the Research Committee) with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the
responsibility to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
studies and selecting the proposals to be carried out under
Parts A.5 and A.6 of the Project, respectively.
    (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the PCU is at all
times headed by an executive coordinator assisted by staff in
adequate numbers; and (ii) the Research Committee is headed by
the PCU executive coordinator and comprised of members
representing MEC, all with qualifications acceptable to the
Bank.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
September 30 of each year during Project implementation,
starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank an action
plan, satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter
alia: (i) a list of the expected teaching positions to be
assigned to each new classroom constructed under Eligible
Subprojects during the calendar year following the date of
presentation of such plan; and (ii) the amount of funds
necessary to hire the school teachers that will fill in the
positions mentioned in (i) herein; and (b) implement the action
plan referred to in (a) herein in accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.06.  Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall not
later than February 15 of each year during Project
implementation, starting in 1996, prepare and furnish to the
Bank an annual report of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank may reasonably request with respect to the progress made
by the Borrower in carrying out the Project (during the
calendar year prior to the date of presentation of such report)
in accordance with the corresponding plan referred to in
Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall not later than March 1 of
each year during Project implementation, starting in 1996,
prepare and furnish to the Bank an annual implementation plan,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, with respect to the activities to be carried out under
the Project during the twelve months following the date of
presentation of such plan.
     Section 3.08. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall
review jointly with the Bank: (i) not later than the twenty-
fourth month after the Effective Date the procurement,
disbursement and auditing procedures followed during Project
implementation, including, inter alia, the Borrower's
compliance with the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
and (ii) not later than the thirty-fourth month after the
Effective Date the progress made by the Borrower in: (A)
carrying out the Project; and (B) achieving the objectives of
the Project.
    (b)   As part of each such review referred to in (a) above,
the Bank may require that the Borrower prepare an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to make adjustments in Project
implementation. If so, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish
such action plan to the Bank not later than thirty days after
the conclusion of each such review and shall thereafter carry
out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance
with its terms.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
Page  6
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
                records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank
                shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
                and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that Law Decree No. 9.470 shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such
a manner so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the
ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
Page  7
                         Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   that the Administrative Manual and Operational Manual
have been approved by the Borrower;
    (b)   that the Research Committee has been established as
provided in Section 3.04 (ii) of this Agreement;
    (c)   that the annual implementation plan referred to in
Section 3.07 of this Agreement for the year 1996 has been
furnished to the Bank as provided in such Section; and
    (d)   that the Borrower has furnished to the Bank a copy of
the budget proposal for MEC for the calendar year 1996 which
has been submitted to the Borrower's Congress, such budget
proposal to include, inter alia, the minimum counterpart funds
necessary to carry out the Project during such calendar year as
set forth in the Implementation Letter.
    Section 6.02. The date December 18, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Chile No.128
          Asuncion, Paraguay
          Cable address:                        Telex:
                MINISTERIO DE                     44329
                HACIENDA
          Asuncion, Paraguay
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                         Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                          248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.                    82987 (FTCC)
                                                    64145 (WUI) or
                                                   197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
Page  8
                        REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
                        By /s/ Orlando Bareiro
                                                   Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                     Regional Vice President
                                             Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated           % of
                                  (Expressed in       Expenditures
                                     Dollar               to be
          Category                 Equivalent)          Financed
(1)  Works                           7,500,000       40%
     under Eligible
     Subprojects
(2)  Goods                           5,690,000       100% of foreign
     (other than goods                               expenditures;
     under Pilot Innovative                          100% of local
     Subprojects and                                 expenditures
     textbooks)                                      (ex-factory cost);
                                                     and 80% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
(3)  Textbooks
     and Distribution                2,900,000       100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures;
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory cost);
                                                     and 80% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
(4)  Consultants'
     services other
     than consultants'
     services under
     Pilot Innovative
     Subprojects:
     (a) for the PCU:                1,540,000       100%
     (b) under Parts A,2,              830,000       100%
         B,C, D.1 and E.1
         of the Project:
Page  9
(5)  Training                          680,000       75%
(6)  Pilot Innovative
     Subprojects                       720,000       80%
(7)  Operating Costs                   840,000       50%
(8)  Project Preparation               450,000       Amounts due
     Advance                                         pursuant to
                                                     Section 2.02 (c)
                                                     of this Agreement
(9)  Unallocated                     1,350,000
          TOTAL                     24,500,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   the term "Training" includes the cost of rental of
conference rooms, per-diem and transport of trainers and
trainees and materials required for the training activities to
be carried out under the Project; and
    (d)   the term "Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred
during Project implementation related to office rent, office
materials and supplies, transportation, communication and
utilities.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
    (b)    payments made for expenditures under each Eligible
Subproject unless the corresponding Cost-Sharing Agreement has
been entered into between the parties referred to in Section
3.01(b) of this Agreement;
    (c)    payments made for expenditures under Category (3) of
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower
has prepared, validated and furnished to the Bank a new
curriculum and guidelines to apply such curriculum to students
attending seventh through ninth grades in public schools; and
    (d)    payments made for expenditures under Category (6) of
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the Borrower
has prepared and furnished to the Bank the eligibility criteria
and operational procedures, all satisfactory to the Bank, to
carry out Pilot Innovative Subprojects.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under: (a) contracts for works: (i) not exceeding $75,000
equivalent to be awarded under Part C.4 of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) not exceeding $25,000
equivalent to be awarded under Part C.5 (a) of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for goods: (i) not
exceeding $50,000 to be awarded under Part C.3 of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) not exceeding $5,000
equivalent to be awarded under Part C.5 (b) of Section I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment
of consulting firms costing less than $20,000 equivalent; (d)
Page  10
contracts for the employment of individual consultants costing
less than $5,000 equivalent with the exception of contracts for
the employment of individual consultants hired by the PCU; and
(e) all expenditures for Operating Costs and Training under the
Project, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve the
quality, efficiency and coverage of Secondary Education; and
(b) expand the institutional capacity of MEC to monitor the
enrollment of students, evaluate the students' cognitive
achievement and design educational policies.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
1.  Design and implementation of an educational statistics
system to monitor the performance of the education in Paraguay
(with the exception of higher education), including: (a) the
acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor;
(b) the provision of training to MEC's personnel in the
management and implementation of such system; and (c) the
design and distribution of manuals to disseminate the
information produced by such system.
2.  Design and implementation of a national student assessment
system to periodically obtain information on student's
cognitive achievement, including the provision of training of
MEC's personnel in the implementation of such system.
3.  Design and implementation of a cognitive achievement test
(based on the implementation of the system referred to in Part
A.2 above) for students attending the ninth and twelfth grades
of schools in Paraguay, including the provision of training to
MEC's personnel in the implementation of such test and the
acquisition and utilization of the equipment required therefor.
4.  Carrying out of a nationwide campaign to inform school
principals, school supervisors, teachers and the general public
with respect to the relevance of the system referred to in Part
A.2 above.
5.  Carrying out of the following studies: (a) a tracer study of
school leavers from Secondary Education and an analysis of
Paraguay's labor market with respect to the future needs of
Secondary Education; (b) a study on the financing framework of
the education sector in Paraguay; (c) a study on the status,
organization and capacity of school teachers of Secondary
Education; and (d) a study on the impact of the Project.
6.  Carrying out of Research Proposals.
7.  Provision of technical assistance to MEC in order to assist
MEC in the development of options to decentralize the education
system in Paraguay.
8.  Organization of seminars to present and discuss the studies,
the Research Proposals and the technical assistance referred to
in Parts A.5, A.6 and A.7 above, respectively, including the
production and distribution of reports and materials required
therefor.
Part B:   Textbooks, Educational Materials and Curricular Support
1.  Acquisition and distribution of about 900,000 textbooks in
Page  11
the areas of mathematics, Spanish and natural sciences for
students of public schools attending seventh through ninth
grades.
2.  Design of a mechanism for the ongoing acquisition of
textbooks after the completion of the Project.
3.  Acquisition and distribution of: (a) texts,reference books
and specialized books for about 600 new public schools
libraries of Secondary Education; and (b) supplemental books
(to complement existing books) for about 200 existing public
schools libraries of Secondary Education.
4.  Provision of training to school librarians, teachers and
students in the management, maintenance and updating of school
libraries.
5.  Acquisition and distribution of basic learning materials for
students attending seventh through ninth grades in about 800
public schools.
6.  Acquisition and distribution of teacher training reference
materials for each DPU to enable each DPU to carry out the in-
service teacher training referred to in Part C.1 below.
7.  Provision of technical assistance to the personnel of the
Department of Curriculum within MEC to assist such personnel
in: (a) the design of general curricula; (b) the design of
criteria and quality standards to select textbooks and learning
materials; (c) the design of methodologies for evaluating the
use and impact of learning materials; (d) the design and use of
mini-laboratories to conduct natural science experiments; and
(e) core skill areas, including the provision of training
required therefor.
Part C:   Training
1.  Provision of in-service training to teachers of public
schools of Secondary Education in order to enable such teachers
to: (a) implement curriculum reforms in seventh through ninth
grades; and (b) improve the teaching techniques to use the
textbooks and learning materials referred to in Parts B.1 and
B.5 above.
2.  Provision of training to school supervisors, pedagogic
coordinators, evaluators (including other specialized personnel
of MEC), school principals and their non-teaching staff of
public schools of Secondary Education, on: (a) the objectives
and methodology of the education reform; (b) the curriculum
content and its application in study plans and classroom
sessions; (c) the administration of schools; (d) the use,
conservation and cost recovery mechanisms for the
sustainability of learning materials; and (e) the norms,
procedures and methods for increasing the participation of
teachers, students and parents in school management.
3.  Provision of technical assistance and training to Parents'
Associations to strengthen their management capacity in school
activities.
4.  Production and distribution of training and information
materials and the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required to provide the training referred to in Parts C.1
through C.3 above.
5.  Provision of technical assistance to MEC to strengthen the
capacity of MEC to coordinate the training activities referred
to in Parts C.1 through C.4 above.
Part D:   Infrastructure
1.  Provision of technical assistance to MEC to strengthen the
Page  12
capacity of MEC to carry out Part D.2 of the Project.
2.  Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects.
Part E:   Pilot Innovative Subprojects
1.  Provision of technical assistance to MEC to assist MEC in
the design of the eligibility criteria and operational
procedures referred to in paragraph 3(d) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
2.  Carrying out of Pilot Innovative Subprojects.
Part F:   Audits
    Financing of audits under Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                 Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.  General Definitions
    For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the
following meanings.
    (a)   "Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest
Period, the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account in such Interest Period.
    (b)   "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the
initial period, each period from and including an Interest
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest
Payment Date.
    (c)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
    (d)   "Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount,
the first day of the Interest Period next following the
Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is withdrawn.
B.  Interest
1.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into
Disbursed Amounts.  Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed
Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate based on a
floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a
fixed rate from its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph
2 of this Part B.
2.  (a)  From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each
Disbursed Amount withdrawn and outstanding, to but not
including the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to
the applicable:
          (i)   LIBOR Base Rate; plus
          (ii)  LIBOR Total Spread.
    (b)   From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount
until final repayment thereof, interest on such Disbursed
Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the applicable:
Page  13
          (i)   Fixed Base Rate; plus
          (ii)  Fixed Total Spread.
3.  For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following
terms have the following meanings.
    (a)   "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in
which a Disbursed Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the
Interest Payment Date preceding the first day of such Interest
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
a percentage per annum.
    (b)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in
which each Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
          (i)   one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for
                such Interest Period, below (or above) the London
                interbank offered rates, or other reference
                rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                allocated by the Bank to fund single currency
                loans or portions thereof made by it that include
                such Disbursed Amount for such Interest Period;as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum.
    (c)   "Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the
equivalent of the London interbank offered rate for six-month
deposits in Dollars for value on the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the
repayment installments of such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
    (d)   "Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
          (i)   one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
          (ii)  minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on
                the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount,
                below (or above) the London interbank offered
                rates, or other reference rates, for six-month
                deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding
                borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund
                single currency loans or portions thereof made by
                it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
         (iii)  the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing
                Date for such Disbursed Amount;as reasonably determined
                by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR
Total Spread, Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable
to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon the determination
thereof.
5.  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this
Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its
borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other
than as provided in this Schedule, the Bank may modify the
basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts
of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The new basis
Page  14
shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not
apply to the Loan.
C.  Repayment
1.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15,
the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th)
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such
Disbursed Amount and the last such installment to be payable on
the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount.  Each installment shall
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part
C, if any installment of principal of each Disbursed Amount
would, pursuant to the provisions of said paragraph 1, be
payable after June 15, 2011, the Borrower shall also pay on
said date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.  After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the
Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of the amortization
schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
    Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
works and goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.  The following provisions shall apply to the works and goods
to be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, as appropriate.
    (a)   Grouping of contracts
    To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost each more
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 and $250,000, respectively.
    (b)   Two-stage bidding procedure
    The bidding procedure for textbooks shall be carried out in
two stages in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6
of the Guidelines.
    (c)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
    The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the
territory of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
Page  15
1.        Limited International Bidding
    Hardware, software applications, photocopiers and vehicles
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more than
$50,000 which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a
limited number of suppliers, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.  National Competitive Bidding
    (a)   Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or
less but more than the equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,300,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
    (b)   Goods (other than those set forth in Part C.1 hereof or
textbooks) estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or less
but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
    (c)   All procurement of works and goods pursuant to this
Part C.2 shall be carried out using standard bidding documents
acceptable to the Bank.
    (d)   In addition and without limitation to any other
provision set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the
following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly
govern all procurement of goods and works referred to in this
Part C.2:
          (i)   Foreign bidders shall not, as a condition for
                submitting bids, be required to enter into a
                joint venture agreement with local bidders.
          (ii)  Foreign bidders may be required as a prerequisite
                for bidding, to be registered with local
                authorities, provided, however, that the
                information to be requested by the Borrower to                such 
bidders is of such nature that it will not
                discourage their participation.
         (iii)  Contract prices for works and goods may be adjusted even
                if such prices have increased by less than 15% of the bid
                price.
          (iv)  There will be no prescribed minimum number of
                bids to be submitted in order for a contract to
                be subsequently awarded.
          (v)   Foreign bidders shall not be required to notarize
                their bidding documents with Paraguayan
                authorities as a prerequisite of bidding.
          (vi)  Foreign bidders shall not be required to hire
                local personnel, except for unskilled personnel.
3.  National or International Shopping
    Goods (other than textbooks) estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,300,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national or international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.  Procurement of Small Works
    Works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or less
Page  16
but more than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, and not
to exceed $500,000 in the aggregate may be procured under lump
sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to successfully complete
the contract.
5.  Parents' Association Participation and Pilot Innovative Subprojects
       (a)  Works (procured by Parents' Associations on behalf
of MEC if requested by MEC to do so under Eligible Subprojects)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $8,300,000,
may be procured by direct contracting in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
       (b)  Goods for Pilot Innovative Subprojects estimated
to cost the equivalent of $5,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, for which at least
three price quotations can not be obtained under the provisions
of Part C.3 hereof, may be procured by direct contracting in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:    Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall
be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines. Procurement of all works, goods and textbooks
(including the distribution of textbooks) shall be undertaken
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.  Prior Review
    With respect to each contract to be awarded under Parts B,
C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.  Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultants Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
Page  17
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $20,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$5,000 equivalent each, with the exception of contracts for the
employment of individual consultants to be hired by the PCU.
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to $20,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $5,000 equivalent or
above.
3.  In addition and without limitation to any other provisions
set forth in this Schedule or the Consultants Guidelines, the
following principles and rules of procurement shall expressly
govern all procurement of consultants' services referred to in
this Section:
    (i)   Foreign consultants shall not, as a condition for
          participating in the selection process, be required to
          enter into a joint venture agreement with local
          consultants.
    (ii)  Foreign consultants shall be selected from those
          included in a short list on the basis of evaluation
          criteria and terms of reference, both satisfactory to
          the Bank.
   (iii)  Foreign consultants shall not be required to notarize their
          proposals or any documentation related to such proposals with
          Paraguayan authorities as a prerequisite for participating in
          the selection procedure.
    (iv)  The prices of contracts over one year duration may be
          adjusted.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals [from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions]
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
Page  18
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Page  19
    Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
