Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14681
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(CREDIT 1974-KE)
JUNE 25, 1995
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal:           KShs 1.00 = US$ 0.0541
US$ 1.00 = KShs 18.5
US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.745
At Completion:           KShs 1.00 = US$ 0.0217 (December 1994)
US$ 1.00 = KShs 46.00
US$ 1.00 = SDR 0.714
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I square kilometre (kin)    =      0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha)              =      2.47 acres
I metric ton (t)            =      2,204.62 pounds
I litre                     =      1.06 quarts
FISCAL YEAR
GOK & IDA: July I  -  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC                Agricultural Finance Corporation
ASAL               Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
ERD                External Resources Division (of MOF)
FAO                Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations
GOK                Government of Kenya
ICR                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
ILO                lnternational Labour Organisation of the United Nations
KARI               Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KVDA               Kerio Valley Development Authority
KWS                Kenya Wildlife Service
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD               Ministry of Co-operative Development
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOLD               Ministry of Livestock Development
MPND               Ministry of Planning and National Development
MTW                Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
NGO                Non-Governmental Organisation
PRC                Project Review Committee
RSDP               Rural Services Design Project
SAR                Staff Appraisal Report
TA                 Technical Assistance
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(Cr. 1974-KE)
CONTENTS
PREFACE  ............................................................... i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ..............................................................................                                     j
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................................................I 
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES &  DESIGN ............................................................................. I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................................. 2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                                     .         .            8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND REPLICABILITY .............................................................................               9
E.   IDA     PERFORMANCE  .............................................................................                                10
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................................................                                  10
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................................................                                 11
H.   FUTURE  OPERATIONS  .............................................................................                                 I I
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNT .............................................................................                                    II
PART  II: STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ...............................................................                                         14
APPENDICES
A. Aide Memoire
B. Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



. .



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(Cr. 1974-KE)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Services Design
Project in Kenya, for which Cr. 1974 in the amount of SDR 15.5 million (equivalent to
US$20.8 million) was approved on December 22, 1988. The Credit became effective on
September 1, 1989. The IDA contribution of US$20.8 million constituted 59 percent of
the total project cost of US$35.5 million; UNDP contribution was US$5.4 million, farmers
contributed some US$0.8 million and the Government -- US$8.9 million. The UNDP
provided cofinancing for four sub-projects through a parallel funding mechanism. Some
US$ 0.3 million was contributed by FAO through a technical cooperation program.
2.    The Credit closed on December 31, 1994, against the original closing date of
December 31, 1993. Final disbursement took place on June 6, 1995. A total amount of
SDR 15.4 million was disbursed under the Credit; however, in the last two years of its
implementation, SDR 4.4 million (of the SDR 15.4 million) was transferred from the
project to finance activities undertaken within the context of the Emergency Drought
Recovery Project (Cr. 2460-KE), to assist rural populations affected by droughts. This
ICR' was prepared by the staff of FAO/CP on behalf of the Agriculture & Environment
Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Department and was reviewed by Ms. S.
Ganguly, Division Chief, AF2AE and Mr. G. Tata, Acting Projects Adviser, AF2. It is
based on materials in the project files, the feed back received from the Government and the
findings of the FAO/CP mission which visited Kenya in December 1994. The Borrower
participated in the preparation of the ICR by providing information/ comments and
contributing to the mission's Aide-Memoire; the Government has also prepared a
completion report for the project. A copy of the Government's written assessments of the
project's performance is available in project files.
The ICR was modified to reflect the input of various Bank staff who reviewed the draft report prepared by
the FAO/CP Completion Mission, and may not mirror the FAO/CP mission's assessment of the project's
performance, sustainability and some of the lessons of experience.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(CR. 1974-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Between 1980 and 1988, the Bank Group extended two loans and six credits totaling
US$150 million to the agricultural sector in Kenya. The sub-sectors financed included,
agriculture, fisheries and forestry. In addition, through the International Finance Corporation
(IFC), the group provided funding by loan and/or equity, exceeding US$55 million to 4 agro-
based enterprises involved in pulp and paper production, tanning and oil crop development.
2.    The Rural Services Design Project (RSDP) was initiated with the aim of resolving the
constraints to agricultural development through the implementation of pilot sub-projects in
eleven identified areas, which offered the potential for subsequent replication. RSDP was
based on two useful lessons gained from the experience of implementing several development
projects in the agriculture sector in Kenya, namely: (a) pilot efforts to establish the most
effective technical and organizational approaches should precede implementation of projects
on an expanded scale; and (b) project design must account for the Government of Kenya's
(GOK) limited institutional and management capacity. However, with the benefit of hindsight,
it appears that RSDP's design did not fully reflect the significance of the second lesson.
Project Objectives and their Realization.
3.    The over-arching objective of RSDP was to test effective approaches to, and assess the
feasibility of, innovative investments in order to resolve constraints to Kenya's agricultural
development; the pilots would evaluate the potential for replicating agricultural investments
designed to improve the productivity and incomes of the rural populations, particularly the
smallholders. Another important and related objective was to establish a programmatic
investment mechanism and to strengthen institutional procedures and the capacity to generate
ideas which could be developed into concrete subprojects.
4.    The objectives of the project were in line with the Bank's overall sector strategy and
the lessons from several preceding operations in the sector. However, the achievement of these
objectives was partially hindered by project design deficiencies, inadequate counterpart
funding, subproject staffing/management problems and tardy implementation by the
Government. The project nevertheless achieved its overall objective, in that the pilot
operations, tested out and demonstrated the suitability (or inappropriateness), of the selected
technical and organizational approaches for the implementation of these development
initiatives, and thus assessed the potential replicability of the subprojects as full-scale projects.



- 111 -
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Eleven subprojects which met the predetermined criteria for selection under the
Project were ultimately approved for financing under the Credit, and were implemented during
the project period. These were: Livestock Marketing in Southern Rangelands, Suam River
Catchment Rehabilitation, Baringo Arid and Semi-Arid Lands, Rural Oil/Protein Production
and Processing, Wildlife Conservation including Masai Mara Rehabilitation, Farm Equipment
Use for Smallholder Agriculture, Smallholder Lending, Ranch Lending, Cypress Aphid
Control, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Impact of Agricultural Strategies and the
Cooperative Management Improvement Program. RSDP was planned to be implemented over
a 4 1/2-year period until December 1993. Overall implementation was affected by the
ambitious project design which attempted to take on activities in too many subsectors;
additionally, the complex implementation arrangements involving 6 ministries and 4
implementing agencies, underestimated the considerable coordination effort essential to
execute this project. Project coordination and supervision through a three-tier arrangement
(Project Review Committee for decision-making, Ministry of Planning & National
Development (MPND) for overall coordination and Extemal Resources Division of Ministry
of Finance for administrative and disbursement matters) did not work and needs to be
reviewed for future projects. In the initial stages, implementation progress slowed down
further due to delays in posting key subproject staff and recruiting essential technical
assistance; general inexperience of most subproject coordinators regarding IDA procurement/
disbursement procedures; inability to quickly finalize the subproject implementation plan and
documentation for cofinancing by UNDP; inadequate budgetary allocations by GOK and
delays in releasing the allocated funds. Although the other impediments mentioned above
eased somewhat with time, inadequate budgets and counterpart funding of subprojects was a
persistent problem, throughout project implementation. No subproject was given a budget
allocation sufficient to meet its annual work program needs, and whatever was allocated was
seldom released in full or on time. As a result, there were delays in the subprojects meeting
their expenditures and several contractors had to interrupt or abandon work. These
interruptions resulted in undue delays and some planned activities could not be completed.
6.    RSDP was successful in examining the suitability of innovative technical and
organizational approaches to implementing various development initiatives, and the potential
replicability of these pilot operations as full-scale projects; as such, its overall performance is
rated satisfactory. The Wildlife Conservation and Cooperative Management Improvement
subprojects yielded positive results, and the lessons gleaned from their respective
implementation experiences have contributed to the design of subsequent IDA interventions in
the sector, viz., Second Coffee (Cr. 2062-KE) and the Protected Areas and Wildlife Services
Project, PAWS (Cr. 2334-KE). Other subprojects with sound performances, whose features
could be replicated, are the subprojects on Monitoring and Evaluation of agricultural projects
and Smallholder Lending. Additionally, at closing three research-oriented subprojects had
partially achieved some of their objectives and appeared promising, even though some more
work was required to complete and conclusively validate the pilot activities initiated under
them. These are: Farm Equipment Use for Smallholders Agriculture (FEUSHA); Rural Oil and
Protein and Cypress Aphid Control subprojects. Furthermore, the Ranch Lending subproject
demonstrated that group ranches could not be financially viable given their operational and
management structure, and a different approach was needed. These findings fulfilled the basic
project objective of determining which pilot initiatives could be successfully replicated. The
subprojects which closed without achieving most of their objectives, but nonetheless offering



- iv -
important lessons on technical and management issues are: Livestock Marketing in Southern
Rangelands; Suam Rehabilitation; and Baringo Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs). For
instance, the Baringo and Suam subprojects helped deepen the understanding of the important
role of communities in the designing and implementation of development initiatives in the
ASALs -- a lesson which was kept in view during the design of the Emergency Drought
Recovery Project, EDRP (Cr.2460-KE) and the proposed Arid Lands Resource Management
Project (ALRMP).
7.    Actual project costs are estimated at some US$21.4 million or 60 percent of the
appraisal estimate. The shortfall between actual and appraisal estimates is largely attributable
to the sharp depreciation in the value of the Kenyan Shilling during project implementation,
slow disbursement of IDA funds under some subprojects, and the under-funding of the project
by GOK and UNDP. Of the actual costs, IDA financed the equivalent of US$15.6 million or
SDR 11.0 million, which is 71 percent of the total Credit amount (these figures do not include
the sum of SDR4.4 million (US$6.3 million) which was transferred to finance activities
undertaken in the context of IDA's Emergency Drought Recovery Project). UNDP provided
US$2 million; FAO contributed US$0.3 million and GOK provided US$2.2 million, while the
sub-borrowers contributed US$1.3 million.
8.    IDA's performance during the implementation phase was generally satisfactory. In
October 1992, Government and IDA reached an agreement to restructure or close those
subprojects which were performing inadequately, and make additional funds available to the
subprojects performing well. As a result, one subproject was closed prior to the original
closing date, several subprojects were restructured and allocations for two subprojects were
increased, while financial allocations for five were reduced. Following the mid-term review in
early 1993, the number of subprojects was reduced to four, viz. Smallholder Lending, Wildlife
Conservation, Rural Oil/Protein Production and Aphid Control, which were given an initial
extension of six months, through June 1994 (beyond the original closing date of December
1993). Of these, two (Smallholder Lending and Wildlife Conservation) subprojects were given
a further six month extension through December 1994. This helped in sharpening project focus
and achieving tangible results from the subprojects which were still active. IDA was,
however, not effective in resolving the general problem of inadequate budgeting and
counterpart funding. Although the Borrower complied with most covenants under the Credit
Agreement, performance was unsatisfactory in terms of internal project supervision, financial
support and reporting. The Project Review Committee met irregularly, and budgetary support
to the project was insufficient throughout. RSDP's implementation would also have improved,
had key project staff been trained in donor agencies' procurement/disbursement procedures.
There was also continuous default in the submission of audited accounts to IDA.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
9.    The financial support given to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) under the
Smallholder Lending subproject, has enabled it to expand its lending to smallholders and
improve its operational systems and raise loan recovery rates from 55 percent in 1989 to 84
percent in December 1994. However, as only 11,000 farmers were assisted by the project -- as
compared to an estimated 2 million smallholders eligible for credit in the country, there is still
a large unmet demand for credit which can only be satisfied by a broad-based rural finance
project. The physical infrastructure which was provided under the project to the 6 game parks
has improved their operational capability considerably; however, these assets will need to be



- v -
properly maintained. The operational manuals prepared under the project and the awareness
created in the Ministry of Cooperative Development and the cooperatives/ societies will
strengthen their management capabilities. The establishment and equipping of the Strategies
and Policies Analysis Division in the MPND, has strengthened the monitoring and evaluation
capacity of that Ministry. The Cypress Aphid Control subproject has helped establish useful
groundwork for the containment of cypress aphid. A good start was made in testing and
adopting improved methods for agricultural production and planning in the ASAL regions of
Baringo and Suam, although no new technologies were developed. Low priced equipment for
manually processing oilseeds was developed and promoted, but research efforts aimed at
developing high yielding varieties essential for a sustainable oilseed industry were not
conclusive. A number of small farm equipment were developed and tested for land tillage,
planting, weeding and harvesting, under FEUSHA, but the results could not be adequately
assessed in the short time available. All three research-oriented subprojects require more work
to finalize the pilot activities they initiated so as to conclusively determine their suitability for
replication elsewhere. However, given the inadequacy of GOK's financial resources, this
appears unlikely and the future sustainability and replicability of these research activities is
uncertain. Ranch lending demonstrated that the group ranches as structured could not be
financially viable and a different organizational/ managerial approach was needed. Livestock
marketing did not make any significant impact on the marketing of livestock in Kajiado and
Navok districts, other than contributing to institutional capacity building and improvement in
staff organizational capability.
10.   Key lessons learned from this project are as follows: First, the overall results would
have been superior had RSDP been structured into four or five independent projects -- each
with well defined, clearly focused and cohesive objectives (instead of grouping nearly a dozen
diverse activities administered by almost an equal number of agencies under one project), and
each entrusted to one ministry/institution which would be primarily responsible for its
management and supervision (complex three-tier project coordination and supervision
arrangements did not function as planned). Nevertheless, an important contribution of the
project was its role in project pipeline development; the features/ implementation experiences
of various subprojects with sound performances, as well as the equally important lessons
offered by the "failures", have contributed significantly to the design of subsequent projects,
e.g., Second Coffee, PAWS, EDRP, ALRMP, etc. Second, adequate project financing should
have been secured by designing a fund release mechanism which ensured the timely release of
budgeted funds to the project. Additionally, the Bank should address through country
dialogue, the Public Expenditure Review exercise, etc., the still unresolved issue of inadequate
budgets and tardy fund releases. As discussed earlier, largely due to budgetary constraints, but
also due to administrative delays, most subprojects were underfunded by GOK -- thus
curtailing their operational progress and impact. The experiences with the various subprojects
under RSDP (and other interventions in Kenya and elsewhere), hence, highlight the
importance of involving benefiting communities in the design, financing and
implementation/management of development projects, with a view to enhancing project
sustainability. Third, key project staff should have been given adequate advance grounding in
the policies and procedures of the donor agencies in areas like procurement and
disbursements. Fourth, appropriate and timely accounting and auditing should be ensured via
project conditionalities, regarding (i) appropriate formats for maintaining project accounts;
and (ii) engagement of acceptable private auditors for carrying out timely audits. Additionally,
a firm stand, supported by decisive action (such as IDA's current stance) should have been



- vi -
adopted earlier on by IDA on the issue of overdue audits/ non-compliance with financial
covenants.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(CR. 1974-KE)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES & DESIGN
1.           The over-arching objective of the Rural Services Design Project (RSDP) was to
test effective approaches to, and assess the feasibility of, innovative investments in order to
resolve constraints to Kenya's agricultural development; the pilots would evaluate the potential
for replicating agricultural investments designed to improve the productivity and incomes of the
rural populations, particularly the smaliholders. Another important and related objective was to
establish a programmatic investment mechanism and to strengthen institutional procedures and
the capacity to generate innovative ideas which could be developed into concrete subprojects.
2.           Only the pilots / subprojects which could satisfy the following criteria, were
selected for implementation: strategic to the sustained development of Kenya's rural sector;
improved technical and/or organizational approaches to removing sector constraints; small
investment size (not exceeding US$ 3.5 million each); improved and sustained resource use; and
reflection of investment priorities in budgetary allocations. At appraisal ten subprojects were
found to fulfill the above objectives and criteria and therefore were grouped into RSDP. These
were: smallholder credit; ranch lending; rural deposits mobilization; livestock marketing;
cooperative management; arid and semi-arid land management and development (in Baringo and
Suam); wildlife management; rural oil seeds development and processing; and monitoring and
evaluation of agricultural sector strategies and policies. Total project cost was estimated at US$
35.5 million. During implementation, the deposit mobilization and ranch lending sub-projects
were prematurely closed, while three new subprojects - Land Use Information System (LUIS),
Farm Equipment Use in Smaliholder Agriculture (FEUSHA) and Cypress Aphid Control - were
added on. Thus, eleven subprojects which met the predetermined criteria for selection under the
Project were ultimately implemented during the project period. These were: Livestock
Marketing in Southern Rangelands, Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation, Baringo Arid and
Semi-Arid Lands, Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing, Wildlife Conservation including
Masai Mara Rehabilitation, Farm Equipment Use for Smallholder Agriculture, Smallholder
Lending, Ranch Lending, Cypress Aphid Control, Monitoring and Evaluation of the Impact of
Agricultural Strategies and Policies, and the Cooperative Management Improvement Program.
3.           The objectives of the project were in line with the Bank's overall sector strategy,
albeit being somewhat ambitious. Too many diverse activities were packaged into one project,
thus resulting in many ministries and agencies (at one point there were 12 implementing
ministries/agencies) being involved in project implementation. There was thus, a lack of
ownership on part of these implementing ministries/agencies, and a resultant disinterest in
addressing the problems of inadequate budgeting/funding. Project coordination also became
complicated, as did project supervision because of the scattered and diverse nature of the
subprojects. This deficiency in the project design, whereby eleven disconnected. disparate
subprojects were aggregated in a somewhat ad hoc manner under the banner of one project.



- 2 -
coupled with a three-tier project coordination/ supervision mechanism (whereby the Project
Review Committee (PRC) was assigned decision-making authority. the Ministry of Planning &
National Development (MPND) was given the responsibility for overall coordination and
External Resources Division (ERD) of Ministry of Finance (MOF) for administrative and
disbursement matters), detracted from effective project implementation. The management
problems which would arise from this type of project structure, were underestimated while the
capacity of Government to come up with the required budgetary allocations was over-estimated.
The latter factor particularly impeded the effective implementation of RSDP.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.           The project achieved its overall objective, in that the pilot operations, tested out
and demonstrated the suitability (or inappropriateness), of the selected (often innovative)
technical and organizational approaches for the implementation of these development initiatives,
and thus assessed the potential replicability of the subprojects as full-scale projects. The
achievements of individual sub-projects are summarized below.
Smallholder Lending
5.           The objectives of the subproject of increasing the share of credit resources
available to smallholders, improving credit management capacity of the participating branches of
the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), improving AFC's loan analysis and processing
capacity, and improving loan recovery rates were substantially achieved. The SAR did not
establish any quantifiable targets for monitoring the progress of this subproject. However, despite
budgetary constraints, it is estimated that by the end of 1994, when the project closed, 18 AFC
participating branches had assisted 10,650 farmers with loans totaling about KShs 380 million,
over 60 percent of which went to dairy activities, including purchase of improved grade cattle.
However, disbursements for smallholder loans were intermittent, depending on the availability of
loanable funds availed through budgetary allocations from GOK. Average loan recovery rates
have increased substantially from around 55 percent in 1989 to 84 percent in 1994. Innovative
features aimed at improving loan appraisal, supervision and monitoring have also been
introduced, although more improvements are required in the preparation of smallholders'
cashflow and other financial statements, which are important tools for evaluating on-lending
proposals. There is also the need to foster credit/extension linkages. In this regard, there was only
partial compliance with the Memorandum of Understanding signed between AFC and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), setting out the cooperation between the two institutions.
6.           After much deliberation by GOK on the issue of allowing positive interest rates to
be applied to AFC loans, the latter has benefited from the liberalization of the financial sector
over the last two years and is now charging interest at the rate of 20 percent (which is close to the
market rates). A weakness of the subproject was its inability to test improved approaches to
group lending, including women's groups. AFC delayed in preparing the terms of reference
(TORs) for the consultants who were supposed to design the group lending scheme. The TORs
were submitted to IDA only in 1994 and by the time the subproject closed, the consultants had
not been hired.



-3 -
Ranch Lending
7.           The Ranch Lending sub-project which aimed at introducing improvements in the
technical and supervisory aspects of lending for ranch development (with the underlying
objective of making the targeted group ranches financially viable), did not achieve its objective.
Of the 4 group ranches targeted by the project, 3 were poorly managed; only one was able to meet
AFC's credit rating conditions and given a loan of KShs 6 million. Although the people involved
in implementing the subproject were given training through workshops and seminars, the
subproject failed to take off because of its poor design which over-emphasized group lending
(i.e., a lending approach which was not adequately developed at AFC), lacked an adequate
assessment of the performance potential of targeted ranches and did not ascertain the
requirements and objectives of all parties involved. The Management Committee set up to
coordinate activities at the ranches did not meet regularly and the representatives of various
government ministries were usually absent. The IDA supervision mission of September 1992
decided to drop the 3 non-borrowing ranches, de-emphasized group ranches as the main target for
assistance and transferred the unutilized funds to the Smallholder Lending subproject (with the
objective of extending assistance to individual small ranches). Under the new arrangement, there
was increased positive response from the farmers. The four participating AFC branches had
sanctioned loans totaling KShs 20 million to 139 ranches as of mid-December 1994. It is,
however, too early to assess the impact of the scheme and the recovery rate of loans because most
of the loans have yet to reach their maturity dates, some having been rescheduled because of the
recent drought. The subproject supported the institutional strengthening of AFC by assisting in
the preparation and issuance of guidelines for ranch credit and administration; defining the role
and responsibilities of the Ranch Management Committee; and introduction of a management
information and monitoring system for ranch credit.
Deposit Taking
8.           The deposit taking subproject which was designed to test AFC's capacity to foster
rural savings and strengthen AFC's future financial base was abandoned in 1993 as GOK did not
permit AFC to become a deposit taking institution. From the long-term perspective, AFC has to
augment its resource base with less dependence on GOK budgetary allocations. While the timing
for launching the subproject was not appropriate, given the then administrated interest rates of 12
percent for deposits and 13 percent for on-lending, the liberalized economic/financial
environment at present is conducive to improved operations by financial institutions. In
anticipation of GOK's approval, AFC has already created the appropriate physical infrastructure
in 10 branches and carried out staff training in deposit mobilization activities.
Cooperative Management Improvement (CMI)
9.           The objectives of the sub-project were to develop and implement measures which
would improve the management capacity and performance of cooperative societies/unions and to
improve Ministry of Cooperative Development's (MOCD) effectiveness at the field level, in
providing services to the cooperatives. The sub-project activities were funded by IDA and UNDP
via parallel financing arrangements. While IDA funds were disbursed on eligible items by the
closing date of December 31, 1993, the subproject activities continued to be implemented under
UNDP financing, and by December 1994, the pilot subproject had substantially achieved its
objectives, notwithstanding the delays in its start-up (subproject activities began only in May
1991). Five manuals and guidelines (on management information systems, improved cooperative
marketing, supplies and credit procedures, personnel policy, improved management guidelines



- 4 -
for the Kilifi Union and Training and Follow-up (T&F) extension system) of good technical
quality were produced. Except for T&F, the other manuals and guidelines were field-tested in
cooperative societies in three districts, viz. Muranga, Bungoma and Kilifi districts. These were
under implementation in eleven districts at the time of preparing this report. One of the
significant achievements of the subproject has been in the area of strengthening the management
capacity of the staff of the MOCD, and training the members of the societies and managing
committee members, through relevant workshops and seminars. During the years 1993 and 1994,
15 workshops and seminars were organized with nearly 700 participants. In addition, six study
tours were undertaken during 1993. The subproject, however, suffered from lack of internal
monitoring. A Steering Committee, composed of representatives of GOK and the donor agencies,
which was set up to review and guide the implementation of the sub-project met only 4 times
between 1991 and the end of 1994. The key lesson of the CMI subproject was that the
management of cooperatives must be strengthened as a prerequisite for the revival of the coffee
subsector. A training component of the follow-on Second Coffee Project (Cr. 2062-KE), was
hence designed to strengthen the institutional capacity of cooperative societies (through
management and technical skills enhancement of factory managers, accountants and technicians).
It is also recognized that a reform of the cooperative law is a necessary next step to sustain the
gains made through this training.
Livestock Marketing in the Southern Rangelands (LMRS)
10.          This subproject performed poorly and did not achieve its objective of improving
the efficiency of livestock marketing in the Southern Rangelands (which cover Kajiado and
Narok Districts), following the deregulation of beef prices in Kenya. The subproject was also to
rehabilitate selected marketing infrastructure and provide some equipment to enhance marketing
efficiency. However, most of the physical targets were not achieved. Of the planned civil works,
only about 30 percent was completed. The remainder was left - and still is - at various stags of
construction following the contractor's decision to abandon the sites because of non-payment by
GOK. The only notable achievement of the LMSR subproject is that it was able to provide
technical assistance to GOK through consultants to (i) train beneficiaries and the implementing
officers in needs assessment for the subproject; (ii) design a marketing information system; (iii)
train relevant GOK personnel on computer applications; and (iv) train project beneficiaries in
livestock production and marketing. Six GOK field officers were also sent to universities
overseas for courses leading to a Bachelor's degree in livestock production and marketing,
although a comparable course is offered at the University of Nairobi (UON). It would have
therefore been more sensible to train the students at UON as it would have been more cost-
effective (and more officers could have been trained).
Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural and Rural Development Strategies (MEARDS)
I.          The MEARDS subproject largely achieved its principal objective of establishing a
system for monitoring and evaluating the impact of agricultural and rural development strategies
and programs (including RSDP); MEARDS also contributed to institutionalizing Kenya's
capacity to assess and refine its agricultural strategies and investment programs.
12.          Although only about 76 percent of the total budget allocation by IDA for
MEARDS was utilized, the subproject was able to procure the required equipment/vehicles as
per the procurement plan (including 19 PCs and accessories and 4 vehicles). It should be noted
that, as in the case of CMI, IDA funding for this subproject mainly covered transport facilities



- 5 -
and equipment. Additionally, IDA support for MEARDS ceased as scheduled on December 31,
1993, leaving the other activities supported by GOK and UNDP to continue as scheduled. With
regard to institutional strengthening, a Strategies and Policies Analysis Division (SPAD) was
established in MPND to undertake (among other activities) monitoring and evaluation of projects
and programs. Other achievements of the subproject were: completion of a study on the impact of
the Cereals Sector Reform Program (CSRP) on vulnerable groups; institutionalization of a
Project Implementation Monitoring (PIM) System in six pilot districts; conducting of training
workshops for personnel in 12 districts; coordination of the project impact study of RSDP;
analysis of the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) Rural Household Budget Survey (RHBS) data;
and, conducting, in liaison with the CBS, a National Household Welfare Monitoring and
Evaluation (NHWME) Survey.
Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation
13.          The main objective of the subproject was to test innovative and low cost approach
to planning and implementing land rehabilitation in the Suam River Catchment area, with the aim
of increasing agricultural activity, improving range management, and through soil conservation
measures, reducing silt loads into the Suam River (which feeds into a dam). A related objective
was to develop institutional capacities in the Kerio Valley Development Authority (KVDA) and
West Pokot district staff to carry out land planning and rehabilitation on an expanded scale.
Other than creating awareness among beneficiaries, through activities undertaken under
agronomy, agro-forestry and soil conservation, the subproject on the whole failed in its efforts to
design and test low-cost approaches to planning and implementing land rehabilitation in the semi-
arid lands. The subproject's weak performance resulted from inadequate budget provisions, and
poor coordination between the parent Ministry of Regional Development, KVDA (responsible
for subproject coordination, management and administration) and the subproject implementation
body (West Pokot district staff). These problems led to poor planning and management of the
implementation activities. The following achievements under the subproject should, however, be
noted: data and information for the development of a land use and rehabilitation plan (for the
subproject area) was collated; various surveys and mapping exercises were carried out; farming
systems were tested on demonstration plots and yields recorded; physical and biological soil
conservation measures were tested, including grass reseeding, run-off and erosion barriers; two
livestock dips were constructed (with farmers contributing labor/local raw materials); a mobile
cattle crush and hand sprayer (average capacity of spraying 400 cattle per week) were also
introduced. However, of the target of eight water dams, only three were constructed.
Baringo Arid & Semi-Arid Lands (BASAL)
14.          The subproject at best was only partially successful in achieving its objective of
testing and adopting reliable and sustainable methods of crop and livestock production in arid and
semi-arid lands (ASALs). Primarily as a result of deficiencies in subproject design (which
resulted in poor coordination and management of activities), the subproject did not succeed in
developing and testing a replicable approach for the provision of rural services in the ASAL
areas. The subproject did not seek to test out alternative models for rural development in these
marginal lands; although the original intent of the subcomponent was to foster cost-sharing
through a demand-driven community-based approach for identifying and implementing
financially sustainable development initiatives, BASAL instead persisted in following the
conventional integrated sector-based development approach. Additionally, the institutional
arrangements, whereby, a project unit at the division level shouldered all implementation



- 6 -
responsibility with the financial and administrative authority vested at the District headquarters,
proved ineffective. Although the concerned ministries (of Agriculture, Livestock, Water
Development and ASALs) implemented several schemes for increased crop and livestock
production, soil and water conservation, small-scale irrigation and adaptive research (in
collaboration with the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute, KARI), no significant breakthrough
was made in the generation of new technologies/approaches under the subproject. Research
activities, however, managed to produce some drought resistant grass and legume varieties. Some
480 farmers benefited from 2.7 tons of improved grass and legume seeds under the rangeland
improvement program. No improved breed bulls and rams were procured for distribution, but 72
bucks out of a target 104 were acquired and distributed to farmers. Activities under crop
production resulted in the establishment of 154 on-farm and 45 off-farm demonstration plots, and
the distribution of over 5,000 fruit tree seedlings. The soil conservation program resulted in the
control of 180 km of gullies and the construction of 170 km of terraces and 5 km of cut-off
drains. Thirty hectares of rangeland were reseeded and 6,000 meters of river banks protected
from erosion. Five grass bulking plots were established and 12 water harvesting pans
constructed. Out of the proposed rehabilitation of seven small-scale irrigation schemes, 3 were
completed, 2 were partially completed and 2 were not initiated. Water development was the most
successful activity, having completed almost 100 percent of the intended programs, including the
construction of 3 water supply schemes and related distribution works. The implementation
experiences of the Baringo and Suam subprojects, highlight the importance of involving
benefiting communities in the design, financing and implementation/management of
development projects, with a view to enhancing project sustainability. This is especially true of
the arid zones of Kenya, where the ability of Government to deliver the necessary support and
services is particularly tenuous. The two ASAL components, have hence contributed to the
design of the ongoing Emergency Drought Recovery Project, EDRP (Cr. 2460-KE) and the
proposed Arid Lands Resource Management Project, ALRMP, by providing insight into the
important role of communities in the successful performance of projects intended to promote self-
sustaining development.
Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing
15.          The main objective of the subproject was to promote the cultivation of oilseeds
and its rural processing to satisfy local demand, and to reduce edible oil imports. The important
features of the subproject included: the development of low input agricultural technology for
oilseed production in ASALs, promotion of low cost rural processing technologies; and
institutional capacity building to foster interaction and cooperation between the Ministry of
Agriculture and the researchers from the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology. The
objective was to be achieved through research on improved technologies for production and
processing of oil crops. The research component made substantial progress in the collection,
evaluation and characterization of a number of germplasms and screening for pest and disease
tolerance in sunflower, safflower, simsim, groundnuts, coconuts and soyabean. Agronomic
extension packages and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) packages were also being developed
under the subproject; however, more time is needed for these initiatives to yield definitive results
on the basis of extensive on-farm trials. As a part of the effort to increase production, training
seminars and demonstrations were mounted in all the pilot districts. A manual ram press was
developed, which, at a price of KSh 20,000 to 25,000 (half the price of the earlier press) found
increasing consumer acceptancefor local processing. The subproject has achieved its objectives
substantially in that it has established the economic production potential of oil crops, has
encouraged local processing of oilseeds, and has laid a good foundation for developing high



-7 -
yielding varieties and agronomic extension and IPM packages. However, the future viability of
the initiatives under the subproject, i.e., enhanced oilseed production/processing for self-
sufficiency and reducing imports of edible oil, will depend upon the appropriateness of the policy
framework and strategy of comparative advantage for oil crops development in Kenya.
Wildlife Conservation
16.          This sub-project attained most of its objectives, which were to: rehabilitate
facilities in six game parks, strengthen Kenya Wildlife Service's (KWS) management of these
game parks and establish a comprehensive community wildlife program in a few selected parks
and reserves. The revenue-sharing approach established in Amboseli national park has had a
positive impact on the attitude of local communities towards conservation activities as a possible
source of income. In fact, the Wildlife component established the importance of community
involvement in the conservation process -- which element has been focused on in the design of
the subsequent Protected Areas and Wildlife Services Project, PAWS (Cr. 2334-KE). With the
exception of the construction of water troughs for the southern boreholes and new water points in
Amboseli, where time and budgetary constraints did not allow satisfactory implementation, all
the other physical targets were attained in full, with beneficial results to the tourism industry. In
Amboseli National Park, these included the rehabilitation of 34.5 km of roads and improvement
of 400 km of roads; construction of a walk trail; and the rehabilitation of 5 KWS buildings. In
Kora National Park, 46 km of roads were constructed while another 100 km were graded. In
Sibiloi Park, the sub-project rehabilitated 67 km of park roads (target 40 km); improved park
accommodation by building 6 prefabricated rooms; and assisted the local community by
constructing 2 class rooms and toilets. In Ruma National Park, 200 km of road were improved
and 5 boreholes were constructed, 2 of which are for community usage. In the Masai Mara
National Reserve, bat proofing, electrical works, water supply and building rehabilitations were
carried out with some of the benefits accruing to local county council and the local community.
In Nairobi Park, 50 km of park roads were improved and a 30 km electric boundary fence
installed. Several studies were also carried out with the help of consultants. These included a
water development study for Amboseli National Park, a study on the needs of the community
inhabiting the Amboseli Dispersal Area; wildlife management on private land; wildlife extension
program in the Shimba Hills; and an assessment of tourism potential in the Machakos areas. The
implementation of the recommendations of a management study of the Masai Mara National
Reserve could not be completed due to lack of cooperation between KWS and the Narok County
Council, which were jointly responsible for the implementation arrangements. The subproject
also assisted in strengthening the institutional capacity of KWS, through staff training and the
provision of vehicles and office equipment.
Farm Equipment Use in Smallholder Agriculture (FEUSHA)
17.          The subproject partially achieved its main objective of field testing and promoting
the use of appropriate farm equipment which would increase farm productivity and increase
returns to smallholders. Despite initial delays, the physical program was completed with 98
percent of equipment (albeit, not the latest/most appropriate equipment), one microbus and 14
passenger vehicles being procured. The project also constructed 2 Rural Training Development
Centers (RTDC), one in Ruiru and the other in Siaya. On the technical side, a number of
equipment were tested in land tillage, planting, weeding, harvesting and threshing, but the data
could not be fully validated due to shortcomings in the experimental procedures. The



- 8 -
experiments also required more time for reaching conclusive results. Additionally, due to delays
in planting experimental crops, the yields obtained were low.
Cypress Aphid Control
18.   The subproject largely achieved its main objective of containing and managing the
outbreak of cypress aphid and conducting research for developing an effective integrated pest
management program, which would ensure the development of long-term local capability for
managing cypress aphid. With technical assistance from FAO, techniques were evolved for
monitoring aphid infestation through aerial and ground surveys and the information gathered was
used by the Forestry Department (FD) to salvage approximately 10,000 ha of forests.
Epidemiological studies on the aphid reproductive cycle were made and indigenous and exotic
parasites and pests were identified and tested. A chemical pesticide -- primor -- was licensed for
the control of aphid in the emergency phase. Several trees exhibiting resistance/tolerance to
aphid attack were identified and procedures for clonal propagation were being developed. Six
altemative species have been identified as a substitute for hedges. Given more time the
continuing research is expected to yield positive results. However, it should be noted that while
there was distinct progress in the technical initiatives under the subproject, the management of
procurement and disbursements/flow of funds was less than satisfactory.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
19.          Overall project implementation was affected by the ambitious project design
which attempted to take on too many activities in too many subsectors. The need for extensive
coordination (particularly where sub-projects involved more than one ministry/institution e.g.,
Baringo ASAL, Suam Rehabilitation, Rural Oil/Protein) and specialized implementing
capabilities, was under-estimated. The three-tier arrangement for Government supervision and
overall coordination of the project proved inadequate. Initially, there were delays in posting key
subproject staff and in recruitment of key technical assistance, which resulted in weak project
management in the early stages. Subsequently, there were repeated transfers of senior staff in
several subprojects which interrupted continuity in the implementation teams. A number of
subproject coordinators were also unfamiliar with IDA procurement and disbursement procedures
(i.e., use of the special account as well as the submission of withdrawal applications for
reimbursement of approved expenditures). In the case of FEUSHA, during the early stages of
implementation, the technical experiments were poorly designed. For the subprojects cofinanced
by UNDP, there were implementation delays attributable to the inability of concerned agencies to
finalize and formally approve the requisite documentation for cofinancing. However, the biggest
impediment to effective project implementation was the inadequate budgetary allocation by GOK
and delays in releasing the approved funds. Although the other impediments mentioned above
eased with time, the under-funding of the project by GOK remained a continuous bottleneck for
all the sub-projects throughout project implementation. No subproject was given an adequate
budget allocation as per its annual work program needs; whatever was allocated was never fully
released. As a result, there were delays in the sub-projects meeting their expenditures, and
consequently some contractors, particularly in the case of the Livestock Marketing and Wildlife
Conservation subprojects, abandoned their work sites. Although, in recognition of this problem,
IDA agreed to increase its share of contributions with respect to some expenditure categories,
GOK was still unable to release its reduced contribution. IDA, however, could not resolve this
generic issue which affected all projects in the Kenya portfolio. As indicated above, largely due



- 9 -
to budgetary constraints, but also due to administrative delays, most subprojects were
underfunded by GOK -- thus curtailing their operational progress and impact.
20.          In October 1992, three years into project implementation and just over an year
before the scheduled completion of the project, an IDA supervision mission which visited Kenya,
judged RSDP's performance as being below expectations. Only 29 percent of the IDA Credit had
been disbursed; of the 10 active subprojects, 6 were rated as having performed satisfactorily
while the remaining 4 were deemed unsatisfactory. Two of the unsatisfactory subprojects had not
even fulfilled the conditions for disbursement and another two had been earmarked for premature
termination of their operations. The mission and GOK therefore decided to initiate the
restructuring of the project in order to steer it towards improved performance. The restructuring
exercise was completed by the subsequent mid-term review mission which visited the project in
April/May 1993. It was agreed with GOK to close two subprojects (Ranch Lending and Deposit
Taking) immediately, while 6 subprojects were to be closed by December 1993 as originally
scheduled. The remaining 4 subprojects (Smallholder Lending, Wildlife Conservation, Oilseed
Production and processing and Cypress Aphid Control) were to be extended for one year.
Funding to the slow performing subprojects was reduced and reallocated to the Smallholder
Lending and Wildlife Conservation subprojects, whose performance was judged as promising.
Eventually, extension was granted for only 6 months to June 30, 1994 in the case of Oilseed
Development and Processing and Cypress Aphid Control subprojects. Smallholder Lending and
Wildlife Conservation subprojects were given a further 6 months extension to enable them
complete their programs and were closed on December 31, 1994.
Project Costs and Financing
21.          As shown in Table 8A, it was not possible to obtain meaningful cost-breakdowns
for the subprojects. Actual project costs are estimated at some US$21.4 million or 60 percent of
the appraisal estimate. The shortfall between actual and appraisal estimates is largely attributable
to the sharp depreciation in the value of the Kenyan Shilling during project implementation, slow
disbursement of IDA funds under some subprojects, and the under-funding of the project by GOK
and UNDP. Of the actual costs, IDA financed the equivalent of US$15.6 million or SDR I 1.0
million which is 71 percent of the total Credit (these figures do not include the sum of SDR4.4
million (US$6.3 million) which was transferred to finance activities undertaken in the context of
the EDRP; of this amount, over 95 percent or SDR4.2 million was disbursed primarily to finance
the procurement of seeds and fertilizers for 20 arid and semi-arid drought stricken districts in
Kenya over the 1993 and 1994 planting seasons). UNDP has provided US$2 million as compared
to US$5.4 million estimated at appraisal. FAO, through a technical co-operation program
arrangement, contributed US$0.3 million. The GOK contribution is estimated at US$2.2 million
(appraisal estimate US$ 8.9 million), while the sub-borrowers contributed approximately
US$1.3 million.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND REPLICABILITY
22.          The sustainability for this project which piloted development initiatives in several
subsectors of agriculture should be viewed in terms of the potential sustainability of the project
(which may be, or have already been, designed on the basis of the initiatives undertaken under
RSDP), and not in terms of the possible continuity of activities undertaken under a particular
RSDP pilot subproject. In fact, an assessment of the sustainability of RSDP (or its subprojects) is
not particularly meaningful, since the project was designed to test effective approaches/strategies



- 10-
for (often innovative) development investments, via a series of pilot operations -- offering the
potential of replicability. The projects formulated on the basis of experience gained under
various successful subprojects, as well as the RSDP components with weak performance records,
have a fair chance of being sustainable, as the shortcomings and lessons gleaned from the
individual implementation experiences of the RSDP pilots, have been adequately addressed in the
design and execution of these follow-on projects. The lessons from the respective implementation
experiences of the Wildlife Conservation and Cooperative Management Improvement
subprojects (which yielded positive results), have contributed to the design of subsequent IDA
interventions in the sector, viz., PAWS and Second Coffee. Other subprojects with sound
performances, whose features could be replicated, are the subprojects on Monitoring and
Evaluation of agricultural projects and Smallholder Lending. The subprojects which closed
without achieving most of their objectives, but nonetheless offering important lessons on
technical and management issues are: Livestock Marketing in Southern Rangelands; Suam
Rehabilitation; and Baringo Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs). The experiences with the
various subprojects under RSDP (and other interventions in Kenya and elsewhere), also highlight
the importance of involving benefiting communities in the design, financing and
implementation/management of development projects, with a view to enhancing project
sustainability. The Baringo and Suam ASAL components, have hence contributed to the design of
the ongoing EDRP and the proposed ALRMP, by providing insight into the important role of
communities in the successful performance of projects intended to promote self-sustaining
development.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
23.          IDA assistance in project preparation was deficient in that project design was
overly ambitious in taking on too many diverse sub-projects and combining them as one large
project. Not only did this underestimate the mammoth coordination effort that would be required
(at one stage 12 ministries/agencies were involved in the project's implementation), it also
resulted in diluting the overall focus of the project. The managerial and operational problems that
would arise from the project's structure, were not adequately considered and GOK's capacity to
finance and manage the various subprojects was misjudged.
24.          IDA supervision of the project was generally satisfactory, showing flexibility by
closing non-performing subprojects, restructuring the slow performers and reinforcing (through
increased funding) the good performers. As shown in Table 13, nine supervision missions were
mounted over the project's life. Intensive supervision over the last 2 years further helped sharpen
project focus with a view to achieving greater impact on the ground. However, the restructuring
of the project which was initiated just one year before the planned project completion date,
should have been done earlier.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
25.          The performance of GOK in this project has been unsatisfactory in terms of
supervision and financial support. After showing diligence in the early stages of the project, the
PRC which was to oversee the project's implementation met irregularly during the latter part of
the project's life; furthermore, there was inadequate follow-up on PRC's deliberations. Largely
due to budgetary constraints, but also due to administrative delays, most subprojects were
underfunded by GOK, thus curtailing their operational progress and impact. Rapid turnover of
key project staff in some subprojects undermined the required continuity essential for good



- I 1 -
project management. There was also a persistent default in the submission of audited accounts
(as of January 1995, 1 1 audit reports were outstanding). Otherwise, GOK largely fulfilled the
other covenants under the Credit Agreement.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.          The overall outcome of RSDP should be rated satisfactory. The project yielded
useful lessons concerning project design and implementation arrangements. RSDP established
that at least four subsector development initiatives piloted under it, viz., Smallholder Lending,
Wildlife Conservation, Oilseed Production and processing and Cypress Aphid Control, could be
replicated as expanded projects; the Wildlife component established the importance of
community involvement in the conservation process -- which element has been focused on in the
design of PAWS. The Cooperative Management Improvement subproject underscored the need
for strengthening the institutional capacity of the cooperatives in the coffee sub-sector, and has
contributed to the design of the Second Coffee Project. Additionally, the three research-oriented
sub-projects showed promise, and are potential candidates for inclusion in future research
initiatives under the National Agricultural Research Project 11 (NARP 11) or other relevant
sectoral programs. The sub-projects seeking to formulate/identify effective approaches and
strategies for the development of arid and semi-arid areas, did not yield satisfactory results.
Nevertheless, these sub-projects have helped identify the principal hurdles and detractors that
contributed to their negative implementation experiences -- which are being addressed
appropriately under the follow-on initiatives, viz., EDRP and the proposed ALRMP. A number
of research work initiated under the three research-oriented sub-projects would require between
one to two years of further work in order to yield conclusive results. However, the project
experience shows that funds for continuing these activities are unlikely to be made available by
the Government, except as mentioned in Section H below. No financial or economic analysis of
the project or its subprojects was carried out at Appraisal.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.         In the short run, only the Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing sub-project
has assured funding from UNDP until July 1995, (with a possibility of further extension).
Discussions with UNDP are also at an advanced stage, regarding continued assistance to the
Cooperative Management Improvement sub-project for two more years (through the end of
1996). Some research activities under the Cypress Aphid Control sub-project are likely to be
supported under the Kenya Forestry Development Project (Cr. 2198-KE). With respect to the
Smallholder Lending subproject, AFC will continue lending to smaliholders but on a reduced
scale. Additionally, the Ministry of Agriculture is including Rural Oil/Protein research under
NARP II, which was recently appraised. As discussed above, elements of the Suam and Baringo
components have been incorporated in the proposed ALRMP.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
28.          The key lessons of experience learnt from the implementation of this project are
as follows:
* Overall project implementation and performance were affected by an overly ambitious
project design which attempted to support too many activities in too many subsectors. Hence,
packaging of many diverse subsectoral activities into a single project is not likely to yield the



- 12 -
most positive results. Not only does the project lose focus, it also becomes very difficult to
manage, supervise and coordinate. The overall results would have been superior, had RSDP
been structured into four or five independent projects -- each with well defined, clearly
focused and cohesive objectives (instead of grouping nearly a dozen diverse activities
administered by almost an equal number of agencies under one project), and each entrusted to
one ministry/institution which would be primarily responsible for its management and
supervision (complex three-tier project coordination and supervision arrangements did not
function as planned).
*  Notwithstanding the weak performance of several RSDP components, an important
contribution of the project was its role in project pipeline development; the features/
implementation experiences of various "successful" subprojects, as well as the equally
important lessons offered by the "failures", have contributed significantly to the design of
subsequent projects, e.g., Second Coffee, PAWS, EDRP, ALRMP, etc.
*  In Kenya, inadequate budgeting and funding have emerged as a major factor in project under-
performance. Adequate project financing should have been secured by designing a fund
release mechanism which ensured the timely release of budgeted funds to the project;
however, subsequent experience has demonstrated that this is not an easy task. For multi-
sectoral (sub)projects a strong coordinating mechanism backed by a single line budget for all
activities under the coordinating Ministry should be considered. Additionally, the Bank
should address through country dialogue, the Public Expenditure Review exercise, etc., the
still unresolved, generic issue of inadequate budgets and tardy fund releases.
*  As indicated above, largely due to budgetary constraints, but also due to administrative
delays, most subprojects were underfunded by GOK -- thus curtailing their operational
progress and impact. The experiences with the various subprojects under RSDP (and other
interventions in Kenya and elsewhere), hence, highlight the importance of involving
benefiting communities in the design, financing and implementation/management of
development projects, with a view to enhancing project sustainability. This is especially true
of the arid zones of Kenya, where the ability of government to deliver the necessary support
and services is particularly tenuous. The Baringo and Suam ASAL components, have hence
contributed to the design of the ongoing EDRP and the proposed ALRMP, by providing
insight into the important role of communities in the successful performance of projects
intended to promote self-sustaining development.
* Key project staff should be appointed before credit effectiveness, and their transfers to other
activities should be minimized, to ensure continuity in project execution/management. Also,
the officers responsible for implementing a project (in this case, the sub-project coordinators)
should be given sufficient advance training in the policies and procedures of the donor
agency, particularly in the areas of procurement, and disbursement (e.g., use of special
accounts, disbursements and preparation of reimbursement applications for qualifying
expenditures).
* Appropriate and timely accounting and auditing should be ensured via project
conditionalities, regarding (i) appropriate formats for maintaining project accounts; and (ii)
engagement of acceptable private auditors for carrying out timely audits. Additionally, a firm
stand, supported by decisive action (such as IDA's current stance) should have been adopted
earlier on by IDA on the issue of overdue audits/ non-compliance with financial covenants.



- 13 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible Not Applicable
(/)      ~~(1/)       0,)           (V)
Macro economic policies              W                         W               1
Sector policies                      W            W            W             m
Financial objectives                 W           LII EE                       E1
Institutional development           El           El           El            El
Physical objectives                 El           El           El            El
Poverty reduction                   EI           E- l         El            Rl
Gender issues                       Fl E|                       Lii EiE
Other social objectives             El3          El            El           E
Environmental objectives            El           EE                         [I
Public sector management            E l          E            EII           El
Private sector development           L           El Ll                      El1
Other (testing innovative                        El           El            El
investment approaches)
B. Project sustainability           Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(/)          (V)          (/)
Ol    E                   ECl'
Sustainability of activities initiated under the project, is not particularly meaningful, since the project was designed to test effective
approaches/strategies for (and assess the feasibility of) innovative investments via a series of "pilot" subprojects.



- 14 -
Highly
C. Bank perfonnance           satisfactr   Satisfactory  Deficient
(V)         (/)         (/)
Identification                [I                       El
Preparation assistance         E           E           E
Appraisal                        l         El          E
Supervision                    L]          E           El
H ig~hl
D. Borrower performance         satisfactorv  Satisfactory  Deficient
(/)         (/)         (V)
Preparation                    E                       El
Implementation                 El         El           El
Covenant compliance            El          El          []
Operation (if applicable)      El          E           El
Hhly                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome       satisfactory  Satisfactor   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactorv
((          (/)I V IV)
El                        El            El



- 15-
Table 2: Related IDA/Credits
Credit title      Purpose                        Year of approval        Status
Preceding Operations
1995-KE                 Fourth Agriculture Dev.             1981            Completed
2098-KE                 Forestry III                        1982             Completed
1237-KE                 Cotton Proc. & Marketing           1982             Completed
1387-KE                 National Extension                 1983             Completed
1717-KE                 Agricultural Sector Adjustment      1986            Completed
1718-KE                 Agricultural Sector                 1986            Completed
Management
1758-KE                 Animal Health Services              1987            Completed
1849-KE                 Agricultural Research               1988            Completed
Following Operations
2062-KE                 Coffee 11                           1990             Ongoing
2198-KE                 Forestry Devt.                      1991              Ongoing
2199-KE                 National Agr. Extn. ll              1991             Ongoing
2204-KE                 Agric Sector Adjustment 11          1992             Ongoing
2334-KE                 PAWS                                1992             Ongoing
2445-KE                 ASMP                                1993             Ongoing
2460-KE                 EDRP                                1993             Ongoing



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                   Date planned              Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                          2/88
Preparation''
Appraisal                                                  5/88                      5/88
Negotiations                                                                        11/88
Board presentation                                         1/89                     12/88
Signing                                                                              3/89
Effectiveness                                              4/89                     9/89
Midterm review                                             3/93                     4/93
Project completion                                        12/93                     12/94
Credit closing                                            12/93                     12/94
I'roject prcparationi was unidertakeni by GOK with assistance from the Bank's Resident Mission in l.astern Africa (RNIEA).



- 17 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Appraisal estimate                500      4,900      11,700    17,100    20,200    20,800O
Actual                            0        3,857       4,343     5,010      8,128      13.055    21,875
Actual as % of estimate           0          79         37         29         40         63
Date of final disbursement:       June 6, 1995.
Equivalent SDR 15.5 million.
2' Equivalent SDR 15.4 million; however, this total includes SDR4.42 million (US$6.3 million) transferred to finance activities
undertaken within the context of the Emergency Drought Relief Project (Cr 2460-KE).



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
The SAR did not set up physical implementation targets for most of the sub-projects. However, where
physical programs were implemented and where data were available, the following were the major
achievements. The targets are per work plans of the individual sub-projects.
Page 1 of 7
Target                    Actual
Smaliholder Credit Sub-Project
Smallholder Given Credit (no.)                       n/a                      10,650
Loan recovery rate (%)                               n/a                        84%
Ranch Lending Sub-Projectl
Group ranches assisted (no.)                          4                           I
Individual ranches assisted (no.)                    n/a                        139
Baringo II Sub-Project
Gu!lies controlled (km)                              n/a                         180
Terraces constructed (km)                            n/a                         170
Rangeland de-seeded (ha)                             n/a                         30
River banks protected (mt)                           n/a                       6,000
Water harvesting pans constructed (no.)              n/a                         12
Small-scale irrigation schemes rehabilitated          7                           3
(no.)



- 19 -
Livestock Marketing Sub-Project
Page 2 of 7
Item Description                        Target               Achievement
I. Inventory Survey Planning:                            15                      10
No. of Holding Grounds
2. Equipment & Vehicles: Nos:
2.1  Computers & Accessories                           2                       5
2.2  Typewriters                                       4                       3
2.3  Filing Cabinets                                   6                       3
2.4  Photocopiers                                      3                       3
2.5  Vehicles                                          12                      6
2.6  Fax Machines                                      6                       3
2.7  Duplicating Machines                              3                       3
2.8  Walkie-talkies                                    20
2.9  Base (Repeater) Stations                          3
2.10 Cattle Weighing Scales                            2                       0
2.11 Sheep Weighing Scales                             3                       0
2.12 1IF/SSB Radio Transceivers                        2                       0
2.13 Tractors                                          3                       0
2.14 Reciprocating Mowers                              2                       0
2.15 Baling Machines ]
with Wind Rowers]                                  2                       0
3. PAT (Project Awareness Training
Activities): No. of Courses
for Producers, Traders and Butchers                   32                       24
4. Intra-district Study Tours                           N/A                       8
5. Extra-district Study Tours                           N/A           _
6. Training/Courses on Data Collection
& Dissemination                                        3                       3
7. Information Technology (Computer)
I  Training/Courses                                       12                      5
8. Overseas University Training:
No. of Staff Trained (B.Sc Level)                      6                       6
9. Civil Works:
- No. of Residential Houses Constructed               I1                       6
- No.of Non-residential Hlouses Constructed            6                       3
- No. of Dips/spray races to be rehabilitated/put      5                       3
up                                                    5                       2
- No. of Livestock Handling Facilities to be Put up       5                       3
- No. of Watering Facilities to be Developed           4                       2
- Perimeter Fencing of Livestock Handling             All                      0
Facilities                                                                     Cont



- 20 -
Rural Oil Protein Production and Processing Sub-project
Page 3 of 7
Action/Activity                       Target                    Achieved
1. Procurement (Numbers):
-Vehicles                                          25                          8
-Equipment for Research                           100%                       50%
2. Training Courses (Numbers):
-M.Sc. Fellowships (Agronomy & Food
Processing/Storage)                               2*                          l
-One-week in-service (for Researchers)             10*                         6
-6 Officers on Out-of-country Study Tours           I
-Out-of-Country Short Courses onl
Research Methodology                              0*                          3
-One-day Workshops                                 0*                          2
-5-Weeks Overseas Training Course for
one Officer                                     0**                         I
-Group Training Course for Prospective
(30) Manual Ram Press Users                        0                          1
3. Consultancies (Work Months):
-International Researchers                         14                         1 1
-National Researchers                              69                        40.5
4. Oil crops Production & Processing:
-Extension Training Courses Field
Days & Demonstrations                             n/a                        n/a
-Ram Press Operations (Field Days &
Demonstrations)                                   n/a                        n/a
-Ram Press Manufacturing:
-Officers (about 10) Familiarisation Tours
to Arusha (Tanzania)                               I                          I
Entrepreneurs Training Course (for at least
Potential Manufacturers)                            I
-Officers (about 18) Workshop                      0              _
* Funds for the other fellowship (M.Sc.) converted for use in financing 3 short courses on Research
Methodology in Ghana, Zimbabwe and Australia.
** Funds for the remaining 4 of the One-Week In-service Courses converted for use in financing (i) 2 one-
day workshops and (ii) one 5-weeks and one 2-weeks overseas training courses for two officers.
***  Two Study Tours involving 10 officials instead of I Study Tour for 6 officials.



- 21 -
FEUSHA Sub-project
Page 4 of 7
Target                     Achieved                       Remarks
Training                                                These courses should have been
- 2 Experimental                2                       performed right at the beginning of the
design course                                         project. T hey proved very useful.
- I Guidelines for              0                       The resource persons were insisting on
testing machinery                                     payment which is not catered for by'
GOK.
- 2 Farm equipment              I                       The second course was to be carried out
development                                           after conducting farmer acceptance
courses                                              trials.
- 4 Study tour to               I To Zanzibar           Logistics of securing an invitation to the
Zanzibar, India.                                     rest of the countries were cumbersome
China and                                             and lengthy.
Thailand
Civil Works                   Siaya 100% for all        Some contractors in Kiambu failed to
Construct 2 complete          Office/cum-workshop.      deliver materials because of non
office/workshop blocks for    Ruiru 98.5% office block    payment for previous materials.
RTDC Siaya & Ruiru            completed. W/shop 85%
completed
Vehicles                                                The sedans could not be procured
14 single cabin vehicles       14                       because the dealers were insisting on
payment before delivery Contrary to
GOK procurement procedures. Due to
long procedures to secure duty free
vehicles, the 14 Pick-ups have not been
2 Sedan vehicles for            0                       fully paid for.
central co-ordinating
office
Workshop Equipmenit           60% were procured.        Most of the heavy equipments were
- Procurement                                           donated by department of Veterinary
of equipment for a                                     Services.
modern rural
workshop worth                                                                    Cont.
US$87,700



- 22 -
Page 5 of 7
Target                     Achieved                       Remarks
Technology Generation         Identified and acquired   The Government does not allow single
lIdentify labour augmenting   some limited technology,    sourcing. So some equipment could not
technology for                e.g.                      be procured from e.g. IITA - Nigeria
- Low land rainfed rice       - Bukura mark 11 Plough   because several quotations had to be
- Wheat                         and its attachments     invited and evaluated.
- Maize/beans production      - Hand pushed planter
- 3 Pronged weeder
- Emivator
- Reaper/Binder
- Mortised thresher
- Bird scarer
Carry out farmer acceptance   Very limited farner
trials.                       acceptance trials done.
Recruit and promote three local                         This was to be done after the farmer
entrepreneurs to manufacture                            acceptance trials were undertakeni.
identified and approved                  0
equipment.
Establish agricultural         Not achieved             There was a very high turn over of
economics unit                                          economists who were employed by the
Ministry through redeploynients to
other priority areas.
Establish a national co-
ordinating committee          n.a.                      T his task was delegated to the National
Agricultural Mechanisation Strategy.



- 23 -
Wildlife Conservation Sub-Project
Page 6 of 7
Item Description              Target          Achievement             Remarks
Amboseli N. Park
Rehabilitation Amboseli     Works completed as     100%           34.5 kms, causeway and 12
roads                       per contract                          culverts. The road projects
specifications                        have assisted in deterring
offroad driving, protecting
vegetation, reducing dust
levels and improving access
and mobility for visitors and
park patrols.
F/A roads improvement       400 kms                100%
F/A sign post rehabilitation  50 environmentally   100%           Improved visitor direction and
friendly sign posts                  enhanced park image.
Construct walk trail on     Works completed as -  1 00%           Increased visitor activity.
Observation hill            per specifications
Conduct Amboseli Southern   Final report           100%           Study has allowed better
boreholes water study                                             plannilig for current and fuiture
water development.
Rehabilitate Southern       4 locations            100%           3 engines. 1 solar pump and I
boreholes and Kiturua Gate                                        hand pump.
Construct water pohit at    I borehole/pump        1 00%
Mbirikanil
Construct new water points in  2 boreholes/pump                   Discontinued due to tilme and
the North                                                         budget constrainits (refer to
report for details).
Construct water troughs for    As per water study  Transferred    The project is ongoing under
Southern boreholes          recommenldatiolis                     KWS fundinmg. Time and
budget constraints under
RSDP.
Enhance for performance of   Procuire I engine, 730    1l00%      The water projects have
the Amboseli water project    pipes. 2 pumps and                  provided the Maasai
desilt dam                           comiunity with better access
to water and increased
availability of water for
livestock and domestic use.
Rehabilitate KWS park       5 selected visitor and    100%
buildings                   admiii. buildings



- 24 -
Page 7 of 7
Item Description             Target           Achievement            Remarks
Strengthen park management  Procure I vehicle    100%              Improved outreach to
vehicle                                                            communities, and
efficiency of park
patrols.
Sibiloi
Rehabilitate park roads (F/A)  40 kms             150%             66.7 kms rehabilitated.
Rehabilitate sign posts F/A  24 sign posts        100%
Construct community water   Windpump, well, hand  100%
point                      pump, storage tanks
and troughs
Improve KWS park           Construct 6 prefab     100%
accommodation              rooms
Assist community with      2 classrooms and       100%
school at Illeret          toilets
Strengthen park management  Procure I vehicle    100%
Strengthen security        Procure 4 tents        100%
operations
Conduct water development   Final report          100%
study at Sibiloi for
administration and
community iieeds
Construct new water points   As per the stuLdy                     Discontinued due to
recomminendatiolis                     cxcessive costs and
remoteness of sites.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No Key Indicators for P-roject Operationi were definied in the SAR



- 25 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Although no specific studies were indicated in the SAR, a number of them were carried out during project implementation to assist in the process of defining and testing
new development strategies. They are summarised below:
Study                      Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined             Status        Impact of study
Wildlife Conservation Sub-Project:
1. Amboseli Water Study                       Assessment of Southern Arnboseli Boreholes       Completed in 1991    Planning for water development in the
etc.                                                                  region was improved
2. The needs of the community inhabiting      To involve communities in projects that would    Completed in 1991     Game park revenue sharing was
Amnboseli Dispersal Area                   help them appreciate economic benefits from                            enhanced.
wildlife.
3. Wildlife Management Programme on           To define the mechanisms for the profitable      CompipLted in 1992    Recommendations not implemented duel
Private Land                               management of wildlife on private land.                                to lack of co-ordinationi betm een
implementinig agencies.
4. Development of a wildlife extension        Wildlife extension support.                      Completed in 1992     Mwalungajji Community Reserve
programme around Shimba Hills                                                                                     formiied and KWS relations with local
community havc imiproved.
5. Assessment of tourisimi potential in Machakos   Tourism promotion.                          Completed in 1993
District
Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Project:
6. Study of the impact of the Cereals Sector  Impact assessment.                               Completed in Nov.    Liniited bccauise the study was restricted
Reform Programme on vulnerable groups                                                                            to only 8 districts and GOK re-
introduced restrictions on the movemenet
of maize.
7. RSDP Impact Study                          Impact assessment.                               Completed in Nov.
S. National Household Welfare Monitoring and    To develop rural poverty profiles.             Further work to be
Evaluation Survey                                                                         done to desegre-ate
and analyse data at
district level.



- 26 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (USSM)                                Actuallatest estimate (US$M)
Local              Foreign               Total               Local             Foreign             Total
Sub-Project                                  costs                costs                                   costs               costs
SmallholderLending                             1.8                 1.7                  3.5
Ranch Lending                                  1.3                 0.3                  1.6
Deposit Taking                                0.5                  0.5                  1.0
Livestock Marketitng                           1.1                 0.9                  2.0
Co-operative Management                        1.8                  1.6                 3.4
Baringo ll                                    2.3                  1.1                  3.4
Suam Rehabilitation                           2.2                  1.1                  3.3                             .......... n.a .
Wildlife Conservation                         2.2                  1.2                  3.4
Oilseed Development                            1.7                 1.3                  3.0
Monitoring & Evaluation                        1.6                 1.7                  3.3
Other Sub-Project(s)                          2.6                   1.7                 4.3
LUIS                                                                                                                                                       l
FEUSfA
Cypress Aphid Control                          -                    -
Total BaseCosts                               19.1                 13.1                32.2
Physical Contingencies                        0.8                  0.5                  1.3
Price Contingencies                            1.2                 0.8                  2.0
TOTAL COST                                   21.1                  14.4                35.5                 n.a                n.a              21.4"
Of the total actual cost. IDA financed the equivalent of US$15.6 million or SDRI I million. which is 71 percent of the total credit amount of SDR15 5 million. lIlo%ever, these figures do not
include the sum of SDR4.4 million (US$6.3 million )which was transferred to finance activities undertaken in the context of the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Cr. 2460-KE).



- 27 -
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$AM)                            Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local           Foreign            Total                Local              Foreign           Total
Source                                          costs             costs                                  costs               costs
IDA                                              11.7              9.1              20.8                                                       15.6
IUNDP                                             2.7               2.3               5.4                                                       2.0
FAO                                                                                                                                             0.3
Domestic contribution GOK                         6.2              2.7                8.9                                                      2.2
Farmers                                           0.5               0.3              0.8                                                        1.3
TOTAL                                           21.1              14.4             35.5                 n.a.                n.a.             21.4
' Of the total actual cost, IDA financed the equivalent of US$15.6 million or SDRI I million, which is 71 percent ofthe total credit of amount SDRI5.5 million. However, these figures do not
include the sum of SDR4.4 million (US$6.3 million) which was transferred to finance activities undertaken in the context of the Emergency Drought Recovery Project (Cr. 2460-KE).



- 28 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
|          ~~~~No econioiilic costs anid beniefits were estim-ated at appasl



- 29 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Page I of 3
DCA  Section                   Covenant Type                                Present Status          Description of Covenant                                        Comments
3.02 (a)                                    2                                                 CD                AFC to maintain positive interest rates.                       Interest rates are now positive.
3.02 (b)                                   2                                                   C                Borrower to review  interest rates annually.
3.05                                        11                                                CD                Borrower to ensure adequate budgets for sub-
projects.
3.06                                        10)                                                C                Sub-projects to be carried out in accordance with
Annual Work Programmes (AWP).
3.07                                        10                                                  C               Borrower to furnish new project proposals.
4.01 (a)                                                                                        C               Borrower to maintain records and accounts for
resources and expenditure.
4.01 (b)(i)                                 I                                                  C                Audit of accounts for each fiscal year by auditors
acceptable to IDA.
4.01 (b)(ii)                                I                                                 CD                Furnish to IDA audit reports within 9 months of                 I I audit reports are now overdue.
close of fiscal year.
`Co enant ti ev                                                                                                      Present Status
I Accotints/audit                                                       8 tndigenous people                                       C = Covenant complied with
2 Financial Perfomrairce/operatirng revente fionm berieficiaries         9 Monitoring, review and reporting                       CD - Complied with after delay
3 Flow and itilizationi of prolect funids                               10 Implementation                                        C(P = Complied with pailially
4 Counterpart flirids                                                     I ISectorl or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  NC = Not complied with
5 Managemenit aspects of the project or of its cseciuting                   allocation
agency                                                                t2 Sectoral or cross-sectoral reguilatory/instituitional action
6 Environmental covenants                                                13 Other
7 tnvolunltar resettlrmein



- 30 -
Page 2 of 3
DCA Section                      Covenant Type                   Present Status    Description of Covenant                         Comments
4.01 (c)(i)                      I                                     C            Maintain Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
4.01 (c)(ii)                     I                                     C            Retain the accounting records till after I year of    Credit closes on 30 April 1995.
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account.
4.01 (c)(iii)                    I                                     C            Enable IDA to examine SOEs.
4.01 (c)(iv)                     I                                     C            Ensure SOEs and records are included in audit
reports.
6.02 (a)                         10                                    C            Project Agreement to be ratified by AFC.
6.02 (b)                         10                                    C            Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be ratified by
Borrower and AFC.
Committee did not meet
Schedule 4 (I)                  9                                      C            Maintain Project Review Committee till project    regularly.
completion.
Schedule 4 (3)9                                                        CD           External Records Department in the Ministry of
Finance to compile progress report on each sub-
project.
Schedule 4 (12)                 9                                      C           Carry out a mid-term review.



- 31 -
Page 3 of 3
DCA Section                     Covenant Type                    Present Status    Description of Covenant                         Comments
Project Agreement Section                                                         .
Section 2.05 (a)                9                                      C           AFC to exchange viex%s w-ith IDA.
Section 2.05 (b)                9                                      C           AFC to inform IDA of conditions likely to
interfere wvith project performance.
Section 3.01                    2                                      C           AFC to carry out its operations under sound
administrative/financial practices.
Sections 3.02 & 3.03            2                                      C           AFC to maintain assets properly and to insure
assets.
Section 4.01 (a)                 I                                     C           AFC to maintain accounts and records in
accordance w%ith generallI accepted standards.
4.01 (b)(i)                      I                                     C           AFC to have accounts audited each Near b!
auditors acceptable to IDA.
4.01 (b)(ii)                     I                                     C           AFC to furnish to IDA audited report %%ithin 9
months of the end of the fiscal ear.



- 32 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operatio , .Il Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of               Planned"'               Revised               Actual
project cycle
Weeks       US$        Weeks  |  US$         Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal                                                       182.8
Appraisal - Board                                                         8.0
Board - Effectiveness                                                      1.6  D    -
Supervision                                                             234.6
Completion                                                               11.1           l
TOTAL                                                                   438.1
Planned/revised staff-week data are no longer available from the Regional MIS.
2/  Estimates.
2/  Estimates.



- 33 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating iii/
Number                       Specialised      Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of           Month!         of         Days in         staff skills        tation        ment         Types of'
project cycle          year       persons        field       represented ii/       status      objectives    problemnsiv/
Identification i/
Preparation i/
Appraisal                5/88          I_
Supervision  1           3/90         3            n/a          E, L, F                    S            HS            F, S
2            12/90        6            n/a          E,L,F,A,C                  S            S             F,S
3            6/91         7            n/a          A.F,Fo,L,C,E               S            S             F,C'
4            10/92        5            n/a          A, F. E, L                U             S            F, C, A
5            5/93         5            7            A, F, P, C. R             U             S             1 A
6            9/93         4            19           A,E,P,F                   U             S             F.M
7            3/94         2            16           A. E                       S            S             F, A
8            I1/94        2            n/a          A, E                       S            S             F, A
Implementation           12/94        4            10           F, C, E, A
Completion Report
Key:
(i)  Project preparation was done by GOK in collaboration with RMEA.
(ii) Specialised Statf Skills: A = Agriculture: C = Credit; F = Economics: F = Finance; L = Livestock; Fo = Forestrv: P = Procurement.
(iii) Performance Rating: S = Satisfactory; IuS = Highly Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory.
(iv) Types of Problems: F = Financial: S = Staffing; C = Co-ordination: A = Audit.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(Cr. 1974-KE)
APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
(Cr. 1974-KE)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
Introduction
1.        A mission " from the FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program (CP) worked in
Kenya during the period 5 - 16 December 1994 for the preparation of the ICR for the above
project. The mission worked closely with the Coordinators of the sub-projects in the
ministries and other implementing agencies and held meetings with senior officials in the
Treasury and Planning Departments in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Office of the
Vice-President and Ministry of Planning and National Development (OVP & MPND) who
were closely associated with the project. A list of people met is attached. Field visits were
made to Muranga, Kajiado, and Masai Mara to meet beneficiaries and look at some of the
physical structures financed by the project. At the end of its stay, the mission had a wrap-up
meetina chaired Mr Barua Chele, Deputy Director, External Resources Department (ERD)
at the Treasury at which the mission's Aide Memoir was discussed and agreed. The mission
wishes to thank all the people, particularly the various Coordinators, for the assistance given
in the course of its work.
The Project
2.        The Rural Services Design Project (RSDP) was appraised in April/May 1988 and
a Credit of SDR 15 million approved by the IDA Board in December that year. The credit
became effective in August 1989 after delays to allow GOK to meet all conditions for
effectiveness including finalizing a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with AFC and obtaining legal
opinion. The project was co-financed by UNDP by way of a grant of US$ 5 million.
3.        RSDP was supposed to be an innovative project which attempted a program
approach in supporting the agricultural sector. Based on an Agricultural Sector Report, 10
sub-projects were chosen and grouped into RSDP. Some like deposit taking and ranch
lending were dropped in the early stages of project implementation due to poor performance
while others like cypress aphid control and farm equipment use in smallholder agriculture
(FEUSHA) were added as new priorities emerged. As appraised, the project was to be
implemented over a 5 year period but depending one performance levels, some sub-projects
F. Bitanihirwe (Financial Analyst - Missioni Leader)
S. Mbogoh (Agricultural Economist Consultant)
S. Muturi (Agriculturist Consultant)
S. Rajhansa (Credit Specialist Consultant)
I



were closed earlier while others were extended once or twice for a maximum period of 1
year. The last 2 sub-projects will finally close at the end of December 1994.
Project Implementation and Results
General
4.        Initial implementation was slow due to inadequate budgetary allocations by GOK
and delays in releasing the funds approved; delays in posting key sub-project staff which
resulted in weak management; and inexperience of most sub-project coordinators in the IDA
procurement procedures and the use of the special account. Although the other impediments
mentioned above eased with time, the under funding of the project by GOK remained a
continuous bottleneck throughout project implementation and contributed significantly towards
the under performance of most sub-projects.
5.        In October 1993, three years into project implementation, the IDA supervision
mission which visited the project judged its performance as being below expectations. Of the
10 active subprojects, only 6 were rated satisfactory; 2 had not even fulfilled the conditions
for disbursement, and another 2 had been put on notice that they may be dropped from the
overall project due to non-performance. Only 29% of the IDA Credit had been disbursed.
The project was therefore restructured, funding to 5 slow performing sub-projects was
reduced while funding to 2 good performers (Smallholder Credit and Wildlife Conservation)
was increased. The implementation of the individual sub-projects is summarized below.
Smallholder Lending
6.        The implementation of the Smallholder Lending Subproject (popularly known in
AFC as Scheme 10) was highly satisfactory. The objectives of the subproject in increasing
the share of credit resources to smallholders, improving credit management capacity of the
participating branches of AFC, improving in AFC's loan analysis and processing capacity,
and improving loan recovery rates from just over 50% in 1989 to 84 per cent as of
September 30, 1994. Despite budgetary constraints, 9212 smallholders received loan
assistance aggregating KShs 277.2 million under the Scheme as of September 30, 1994. It
is estimated that by December 31, 1994 (the date of closing of the subproject), 10,650
borrowers would be assisted with a total loan disbursement of about KShs 380 million.
7.        The subproject implemented innovative features aimed at improving loan
appraisal, supervision and monitoring. These features include, establishment of Loan
Approval Committee at branch level, simplified loan appraisal procedures, allocating the area
of credit operations to each loan officer, prescribing a time limit for appraisal of a loan
proposal, improved credit management and supervision procedures, and performance
evaluation of Loan Officers.
8.        Despite satisfactory  performances in  terms of physical and  financial
achievements, the implementation of the sub-project was adversely affected by financial and
institutional problems/shortcomings including (a) inadequate budgetary provisions by GOK
2



for augmenting the resources of AFC; (b) credit appraisal reports lacked in essential details
and realistic cashflow analysis; (c) post disbursement supervision and monitoring was not
emphasized; (d) loan maturity period was uniformly fixed as 3/5 years without consideration
of production cycle and income generation of the enterprise; and (e) the absence of credit
extension linkages despite signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between AFC and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA).
Ranch Lending
9.         The Ranch Lending sub-project was implemented by AFC through its Voi and
Gersen branches. However, of the 4 group company ranches targeted by the project, only
one was able to meet AFC's credit rating conditions and was given a loan of KShs 6 million.
Institutionally, the project assisted AFC in preparing and issuing guidelines for ranch credit
and administration; credit-extension linkages; and defining the role and responsibilities of
Ranch Management Committee; introduction of MIS, financial management of ranches and
monitoring system. However, despite reasonable efforts by AFC, the progress in the
implementation of the sub-component was sluggish largely because of poor project design
(which over-emphasized group lending) and the reluctancy of the ranch shareholders to bring
in their equity contributions. The sub-project was therefore restructured in September 1992
allowing assistance to individual private small ranchers. Under the restructures sub-project,
there was increased positive response from the farmers. The four participating branches
sanctioned loans totalling KShs 20 million to 139 ranches as of mid-December 1994. It is
perhaps early to assess the impact of the scheme and the recovery rate of loans for most of
the loans have yet to reach the maturity date. However, the restructured component is
considered to have been satisfactorily implemented.
Deposit Taking
10.       The deposit taking subproject was designed to test AFC's capacity to introduce
deposit taking activity to foster rural savings and strengthen AFC's future financial base and
viability. This activity was to be implemented by establishing a subsidiary, the Agricultural
Development Bank. For testing most effective approaches, the deposit taking activity was
to be through 5 of AFC's branches. Central Bank approved start-up of AFC's deposit taking
from June 1990.  The deposit taking was delayed pending completion of two studies
involving AFC's financial and organizational restructuring to confirmn justification of the
subproject. However, GOK did not finalize the decision for AFC to become a deposit taking
institution. The subproject was therefore closed effective June 30, 1993.
11.       From the long-term perspective, AFC has to augment its resource base with less
dependence on GOK budgetary allocations. While the timing for designing the subproject
was not appropriate given the then administrated interest rates of 12 percent and 13 percent
on lending, the present liberalized economic environment is conducive. GOK may therefore
wish to reconsider its stand and permit AFC to take deposits especially from rural areas.
AFC has already created appropriate infrastructure in 10 of its branches for deposit taking.
3



Co-operative Management Improvement
12.       The Cooperative Management Improvement subproject was an educational and
training programme aimed at improving the management of co-operatives, to raise the
management capabilities of members, the management committee and staff of co-operative
societies, and to review the business, technical and administrative operations of co-operatives
and streamline them with a view to providing better services and returns to primary
societies. The implementation of the subproject was extremely slow for a variety of reasons.
While the RSD project was effective from September 1989, documents for formal approval
of UNDP for co-financing were completed in August 1990. There was delay in the
recruitment of National Project Coordinator and other supporting staff (the Coordinator was
in place only in May 1991 and Training and Follow-up Specialist was recruited as late as
February 1993). Procurement of vehicles for field staff and office equipment was also
considerably delayed. Four motor cars were procured in 1992 and 9 in May 1994 along with
36 motor-cycles. Above all, cut backs in the GOK budgetary support and late release of
funds contributed to the abnormal delay in the implementation of the subproject. Thus, there
was initial delay of about two years in the commencement of the implementation.
13.       Despite the initial delay, the subproject implementation is on course to achieve
the objectives. Manuals on MIS, Cooperative Credit, Marketing and Supply Procedures,
Personnel Policy, Revitalisation of Kilifi District Cooperative Union and Training and
Follow-up (TF), have been prepared. Apart from TF, the others have been field-tested in
three co-operative societies, one each in Muranga, Bungoma and Kilifi districts.
Implementation is underway in 11 districts. The most significant achievement of the
subproject was in creating awareness among the staff of MOCD, members of the societies
and managing committee members of the societies through workshops and seminars. During
the year 1993 and 1994, 5 and 10 workshops and seminars were organized with participation
of 212 and 478 respectively. In addition, six study tours were undertaken during 1993. After
IDA funding ceased at the end of December 1993, the subproject is now being continued
with UNDP funding till December 1994. Plans are underway for further funding from UNDP
through 1996.
Livestock Marketine in the Southern Rangelands (LMRS)
14.       The LMSR subproject was one of the RSD Project components that performed
poorly. This was largely because of organizational and management constraints that led to
inadequate budgetary allocations and problems in the flow and disbursement of funds.
15.       The subproject aimed to improve the efficiency of the Livestock Marketing in
the Southern Rangelands (covering Kajiado and Narok districts) so that both the producers
and the consumers could benefit from the 1987 decision by the GOK to deregulate beef
prices in Kenya.  The subproject was also to rehabilitate some selected marketing
infrastructure and provide some equipment to facilitate the execution of measures to enhance
marketing efficiency. However, many of the subproject objectives were not achieved. No
more than 30% of the planned civil works was accomplished, and even for the activities
initiated, the statuis by the close of the credit on December 31, 1993 was as follows: (i) Bissil
Office block and sale yard construction was 95 % complete, (ii) Namanga sale yard
construction was 90% complete, (iii) Kajiado office block construction was 80% complete,
4



(iv) Narok office block construction was 95% complete, (v) Narok staff houses construction
and water supply installations were 40% complete, and (vi) the communications equipment
and marketing information system were only about 90% effective. GOK should look for
funding to complete these works so that they are in a useable state rather than staying in their
present dormant status. The only success story for the LMSR subproject is that it was able
to provide technical assistance to GOK through the Services of consultants in (i) training
needs assessment for the subproject beneficiaries and the implementing officers,; (ii) the
design of a marketing information system; (iii) training of relevant GOK personnel on
computer applications and; (iv) training of project beneficiaries on livestock production and
marketing. Six GOK field officers were also sent for overseas training on courses leading
to a University Bachelor's degree in livestock production and marketing aspects. This course
is however offered at the University of Nairobi (UON). It would have therefore been much
cheaper to train the students at UON. The sub-project also procured a range of office
equipment and vehicles.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural and Rural Development Strategies (MEARDS)
16.       The MEARDS subproject was fairly successful. Its overall objective was to
establish a system for monitoring and evaluating the impact of agricultural and rural
development strategies in Kenya and also help to institutionalize Kenya's capacity to assess
and refine its agricultural strategies and investment programs. The subproject was also to
execute and/or supervise the impact evaluation of the other RSDP subprojects (during the
course of their implementation) in order to determine their merits for replication.
17.       The sub-project attained most of the above objectives. Although only about 76%
of the total budget allocation by IDA for the subproject was utilized, the subproject was able
to procure all its planned equipment and vehicles needs. The types of equipment purchased
were mainly computers and accessories, photocopiers and motor vehicles. Institutionally, a
lot was achieved including the establishment of the Strategies and Policies Analysis Division
(SPAD) to undertake (amongst other activities) projects and programmes Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) activities; completion of study of the impact of Cereals Sector Reform
Programme (CSRP) on vulnerable groups; institutionalization of Project Implementation
Monitoring (PIM) System in six pilot districts; conducting of training workshops for
personnel in 12 districts; coordination of the impact study of the RSD Project; analysis of
the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) Rural Household Budget Survey (RHBS) data; and,
conducting, in liaison with the CBS, of a National Household Welfare Monitoring and
Evaluation (NHWME) Survey.
18.       IDA funding of the sub-project ceased at the end of December 1993 but project
activities are being continued with UNDP support till June 1995.
Barineo II
19.       The main objective of the sub-project was to test and adopt an improved and
replicable approach to the development of reliable and sustainable methods of crop and
livestock production in ASAL areas. Baringo II was to build up on experiences gained in
5



Baringo I (BPSAAP, 1978-88). Several ministries were involved in the implementation
process under the District Focus for Rural Development Strategy. The project achieved
mixed performances in its various components.
20.       Activities under crop production resulted in the establishment of 154 on-farm and
45 off-farm demonstration plots, and the distribution of over 5,000 fruit tree seedlings. The
soil conservation programme was successful, which resulted in the control of 180 km of
gullies; construction of 170 km of terraces; and 5 km of cut-off drains. 30 ha of rangeland
were reseeded and 6,000 meters of river banks protected from erosion. Five grass bulking
plots were established and 12 water harvesting pans constructed. Out of the seven proposed
rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation schemes, 3 were completed, 2 were half way done and
two were not initiated.
21.       Although no significant breakthrough were made in generation of new
technologies, research managed to produce drought resistance crop varieties. Some 480
farmers benefitted from 2.7 tonnes of improved grass and legume seeds under the rangeland
improvement programme. No improved bulls and rams were procured for distribution, but
72 bucks out of a target of 104 were acquired and distributed to farmers.
22.       Water development was the most successful, haw.ing attained 100%  of the
intended activities.  Construction of 3 water supply schemes was completed and water
distribution works completed. Communities had been sensitized and are supportive of cost
sharing.
23.       However, there were problems with the coordination of implementation agencies
at headquarters and district level. Although a mobile project M&E team was established in
late 1993, its impact had not been felt at close of project.
Rural Oil-Protein Production and Processing (ROPPP)
24.       The overall objective of the ROPPP subproject was to promote the economic
cultivation of oilseeds and their rural processing in order to satisfy the local demand for
edible oils and protein cake and reduce the utilization of scare foreign exchange which would
be used to import those commodities (estimated at US$ 60 - 80 million annually).
25.        Financial performance of the subproject was generally satisfactory with about
70% of the IDA budgetary allocation disbursed. Performance in physical terms was also
satisfactory. However, its research component has been seriously constrained by the flow
of funds problems, primarily emanating from the delays in resolving the system of disbursing
funds from the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (ROPPP
subproject line Ministry) to KARI and its research stations because KARI (Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute) falls under a different Ministry (Research, Science and
Technical Training). The agreed training programme for the ROPPP subproject was
complete by the close of IDA funding. However, further focused training programmes in
order to enhance the rate of capacity building in rural oil processing on a small-scale basis
is still needed.
6



26.        The ROPPP subproject has supported extension activities within the overall.
national extension framework, and has produced the "Oilseeds Production Handbook" to
enhance the subproject activities. However, the effectiveness of the extension efforts is
hampered by financial constraints that limit the dissemination of the technologies being
developed and lack of definitive government policy framework on oilcrops production and
processing.
27.        Research at the six KARI participating stations has made some progress in
developing technologies for oilcrops production, focusing on improved germplasm resources
collection, screening and cross-breeding of various varieties from different countries. The
objective, ultimately, is to develop high-yielding varieties of oil crops.
28.        On the oilseeds processing side, much progress has been made in the
development of a manual ram press that is now relatively cheap -- initially costing close to
Chace 50,000/=, but now possible to procure one at Chace.20,000/= - Chace. 25,0001=
when the accessories (filter and sieve) included. However, oil filtration rate (at about 3 litres
oil per hour) is very low and this needs to be (at least) doubled.
29.        Overall, the ROPPP subproject has made impressive progress in developing and
producing its main expected outputs in the short run, but its objective of developing high-
yielding oilcrop varieties is a longer run objective which is yet to be realized. Hence the
subproject merits further support. The sustainability and viability of the ROPPP subproject
activities will very much depend on the appropriateness of the expected policy framework
for oil crops development in Kenya, which would make locally produced vegetable oils
compete with imported products.
Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation
30.       The main objective of this sub-project was to test an innovative and low cost
approach to planning and implementing land rehabilitation of the Suam River Catchinent
ASAL area through participatory approach to planning and implementing rehabilitation efforts
using low cost sustainable technical methods.
31.        The planning and implementation of the sub-project were guided by a steering
comrnittee composed of KVDA and District Technical Officers as well as representatives of
local traders from the project area. This arrangement worked satisfactorily although the
exclusion of non-project related officials of KVDA resulted in missing the opportunity to
establish linkages and institutionalize project activities within KVDA. Project implementation
was generally smooth except for the occasional cashflow problems caused friction between
KVDA and the parent Ministry.
32.       The project made notable achievements. Data and information was collected
pertaining to the project area which proved useful in the development of a land use and
rehabilitation plan. various surveys and mapping were carried out including a vegetation
survey and a livestock census. Farming systems were tested on demonstration plots and
yields recorded. Physical and biological soil conservation measures were tested including
grass reseeding, live run-off and erosion barriers. Two livestock dips constructed with
7



farmers contributing labour and local raw materials. A mobile cattle crush and hand sprayer
was introduced and sprayed an average 400 head of cattle a week. However, out of the 8
water dams intended for development, only 3 were built. The sub-project closed at the end
of December 1993.
Wildlife Conservation
33.       This was one of the most successful components of the project. The staff
implementing the sub-project were generally young and dedicated and managed to attain most
of the objectives of the project. With the exception of the construction of water troughs for
the southern boreholes and new water points where the time and budgetary constraints did
not allow satisfactory implementation, all the other physical targets were attained in full. In
Amboseli National Park, these included the construction of 34.5 km of roads improvement
of 400 km of roads; construction of a walk trail; and the rehabilitation of 5 KWS buildings.
In Kora National Park, 46 km of road was constructed while another 100 km are being
graded and will be completed by the end of 1994. In Sibiloi Park, the sub-project
rehabilitated 67 km of park roads (target 40 km); improved park accommodation by building
6 prefab rooms; and assisted the local community by construction of 2 class rooms and
toilets. A water development study was also carried out and a final report has been issued.
In Ruma National Park, 200 km of road were improved and 5 boreholes have been
constructed 2 of which are for the community. In Masai Mara National Reserve, bat
proofing, electrical works, water supply and building rehabilitations have been carried out
with some of the benefits accruing to local county council and the local community. In
Nairobi Park, 50 km of park roads were improved and a 30 km electric boundary fence
installed. The project also assisted in strengthening the institutional capacity of KWS through
the provision of vehicles, 2 computers, office and audio equipment as well as camping tents
and staff training.
34.       The outcome of this sub-project has been very satisfactory and deserves
replication in the other game parks particularly in fostering community participation in the
management of wild life resources and rehabilitating infrastructure. The sub-project will close
at the end of December 1994 after 2 extensions of 6 months each.
Farm Equipment Use in Smallholder Agriculture (FEUSHA)
35.       The overall objectives of FEUSHA was to increase agricultural production
through field testing and promoting the use of appropriate farm equipments and implements
which would increase the productivity and returns of smallholder labour inputs.
36.       Activities of FEUSHA were based in three RTDCs (Nakuru, Siaya and Ruiru)
and associated RTDUs.  They were coordinated by a project officer based at the
Mechanization Branch of the Agricultural Engineering Division (AED) of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (MOALDM) headquarters in Nairobi.
All activities at RTDCs and RTDUs were supervised by the officers-in-charge of the three
RTDCs. The AEU and NCC which would have guided the management in programme and
policy matters never took off. The two agricultural economists recruited for the AEU left
8



soon thereafter. The idea of an NCC was discarded after the AED became preoccupied with
the establishment of a national mechanization strategy task force.
37.        One 16 seater microbus was delivered in 1992. Fourteen pick-up vehicles had
90% payment made. 21 items of workshop tools, 6 items of design office equipment, 4
microfiche for library units and 3 computers were procured for Headquarters and RTDCs.
Farm equipments procured were 12 animal/bird scarers, 2 reaper binders, 4 rotovators and
6 portable motorized swathers. Approximately 98% of equipment was procured; which was
a satisfactory performance. Construction of the Siaya RTDC office block was completed by
mid 1993 and have been occupied. Construction of Ruiru RTDC was also completed by the
end of the project, except for minor items such as burglar proofing.
38.        A number of equipments were tested. The data cannot, however, be validated
due to shortcomings in the experimental procedures. At the beginning, staff did not have
skills in experiment design and statistical analysis although the deficiency was rectified
through 2 courses carried out in 1992 and 1993. Experiments were planted late and yields
obtained were low. As a result of low yields gross margins for all equipments were
negative.
39.        Overall, the sub-project was satisfactorily implemented. It is the view of AED
that the facilities provided at RTDCs and RTDCUs are capital assets. These, together with
staff exposure to new approaches in machinery testing will benefit future activities in
smallholder mechanization. With continued funding, and training of staff, farmers and
entrepreneurs, the activities would be sustainable.
Cypress Aphid Control Proiect
40.        The main objective was to contain the emergency caused by the outbreak of
cypress aphid and to conduct research into the knowledge on which to develop an effective
integral pest management program which would ensure an effective long-term capability for
managing cypress aphid. The sub-project was to be managed by a National Project
Management Team based in Karura Forest near Nairobi.
41.        Besides erratic funding from GOK, implementation of the sub-project has been
generally smooth. The sub-project substantially achieved most of its objectives, particularly
in controlling and managing the serious outbreak of cypress aphid in Kenya. Techniques were
evolved for monitoring aphid infestation through aerial and ground surveys and the
information gathered was used by the Forestry Department (FD) to salvage approximately
10,000 ha of forest. Epidemiologocal studies on the aphid reproductive cycle were made and
indigenous and exotic parasites and pests identified and tested. A chemical pesticide - primor
- was licensed for the control of aphid in the emergency phase. Several trees indicating
resistance/tolerance to aphid attack were identified and procedures for clonal propagation are
being developed. Six alternative species have been identified as substitute for hedges. On the
whole, the outcome of this sub-project, which closed in June 1994 after a 6 months
extension, has been very satisfactory. Project activities continued under UNDP funding till
mid-December 1994.
9



Project Costs and Financing
42.       Project Costs and Financing will be finalized by the mission in the course of
preparing the full report. They however are tentatively estimated to be in the region of US$
24 million. Of this IDA has provided about USS 20 million (SDR 14 million or 90% of
amount agreed) while UNDP has provided US$ 2 million as compared to US$ 5 million
estimated at appraisal. The GOK contribution is yet to be calculated but is expected to be
very much less than what was estimated at appraisal.
IDA Performance
43.       IDA performance at project design was deficient in that it was overly ambitious
in packaging such a diverse range of sub-projects into one large project. This led to
coordination problems and lack of focus for the whole project. The management problems
that would arise were underestimated while the GOK capacity to finance the various sub-
projects was over-estimated.
44.       During project implementation, IDA performance was generally satisfactory,
showing flexibility to abandon non-performing sub-projects, restructuring the slow performers
and rewarding (in terms of increased funding) the good performers. IDA supervision over
the last 3 years has been particularly beneficial in sharpening project focus to achieve results
on the ground.
GOK Performnance
45.       The perfornance of GOK in this project has been unsatisfactory in terns of
financial support. Most project sub-projects, largely due to budgetary ceilings but also due
to administrative delays, were underfunded by GOK thus curtailing their operational
activities. Rapid staff turnover by key project staff of some sub-projects undermined their
performance. There was also a continuous default in submitting audited accounts (11 audit
reports are now outstanding). Otherwise GOK largely fulfilled the other covenants under the
Credit Agreement.
Sustainability
46.       With the exception of the Smallholder Credit and Ranch Lending sub-projects
(which are basically revolving funds) and the Wildlife Conservation sub-project whose
beneficiary is a revenue generating activity, the other sub-projects are not sustainable because
they require further funding which may not be readily available. There is therefore need for
GOK to source funding for those sub-project which are promising and require continued
financial support.
10



Lessons Learnt
47.        The main lesson learnt from this project is that packaging of many diverse
activities into a single project is not advisable. Not only does the project lack focus, it also
becomes very difficult to manage, supervise and coordinate. Secondly, a project should as
far as possible rely less on Government funding because the level of such funding can be
unpredictable as Government's priorities change over time. Thirdly, the key officers charged
with implementing a project (in this case the sub-project coordinators) should be thoroughly
given advance training in the policies and procedures of the donor agency particularly in
procurement and disbursements. Finally staff turnover of key project staff should be kept to
a minimum so as to ensure continuity in project management.
Follow-Up
48.        On return to Rome, the mission will prepare an ICR for submission to IDA by
the fourth week of January 1995. GOK will actively look out for funding of the sub-projects
which are promising but lack financial support. The Borrower should also actively follow up
those implementing agencies/ministries which have not yet submitted their own Completion
Reports so that they are submitted not later than 15 January 1995. So far, only KWS, the Co-
operatives, and KVDA have submitted their Completion Reports.
F. Bitanihirwe
S. Mbogoh
S. Muturi
S. Rajhansi
Nairobi, 16 December 1994
11



LIST OF KEY PEOPLE MIET BY THE MISSION
Ms M. Thiongo       -      Under-Secretary in charge of World Bank Desk at the
Treasury
Ms A. Olubendi      -      Desk officer, World bank Desk at the Treasury
Dr 1. Onyango       -      Principal Economist and Head of Strategy and Policy Analysis,
MFEP Coordinator, M&E Sub-Project
Mr D.N.Riungu       -      Chief Planning Officer, AFC; Coordinator, Small Scale
Lending Sub-Project
P.K. Ndethi         -      Head, Agricultural Mechanization Branch, MOALDM
M.Were              -      Coordinator, Cooperative Management Improvement Sub-
Project (CMIP)
M.Marate            -      Coordinator, Livestock Marketing Sub-Project
M.Shiribwa          -      Coordinator, FEUSHA
Ms C. Gachukia      -      Coordinator, Wildlife Conservation Sub-Project
Mr Kinaga           -      Coordinator, Rural Oilseeds Production and Processing Sub-
Project
Prof. J.Mwangi      -      Coordinator, Cypress Aphid Control Sub-Project
Mr Mbate            -      Coordinator, Baringo II
E.Mudido            -      National Expert, Training and Follow Up, CMIP
L.Mbure             -      Branch Manager, AFC, Muranga
J.Kibukiah           -     Branch Manager, AFC, Kajiado



S U D A N 
K                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~K E NY A
--2_ ('  \I                                       j   ' 'f,RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
/
.-                                                        M4aqO /0 O                             ". FE  T  H   I 0   P  I A                                     ,
'N                                 /~~~'
'-I                                                                                                                     /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' .i
MAR5A?' ~ ~          ~            ~           ~          ~          SMAI
8onqon.                              A                                                                                                      S 0    R --T__i
W             .PTESXIMATE RO   LOCATIONS)
*.9                             ,,                   ,i 'o den tnding
0.~~                                                                                                                                                                                                 01-f4hf     
1~~~~ ~ ~                                                              6  ;r \<                 
A Rno-h L-nding
*Deposit T.king (Tentalive)
Li-estnck M-rketing                                                                  0
Cooperolive Mon..g.emet 
4frffGO~~~~~~~Z-`                                    .ri. ..../    AMSDj/    
o   Son,-  RIor Coohn,erI Rehobili'?lin -                         A f                        '-                                                                2 E                  t         o r\
Xotffl \. \  ^   ^   /  t-_9   d4!F;6"l                t     t>Ktd                      |,        ,,,, ,  .     \]                    Nolonol0000,
Wildlife ConseI-otion                                                                                                                                                       N.fi-l Cpi1
O il-Ed DPR OJpECT  t (Tnoi-)                                  Z                                                                                                             Ntn  CopiSo)_)l7
*    Smriliholder   Lending  62 .1: \\ \ Z69;bwNrg) < i/ \ | t \ lemu~~~~~~~~~*                                                        P onin e  Co rso
- I.  Jnch Lending                                             z      >,/   ~.                         .\    \      t:
4  ~   ~        ~        ~        ~       'LL,700           '         0        20       160                          '?og                                                   eods   od 
---lo  .0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                          00Rolsoo.ds                                    
n   Livestock Mcorketing         oq  vI\gr rlKliAriSAk            ,,,  \;  :<         <         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dstot Eoodrn
-2 Bc/ringo ASALI  ofw_R- enO-od.,-nf
3) Suom Rie C h                                                                           --             a. -, ITte.notonoloondor,s
WidleCneeto oa'                                                                                                                          S Io r\Ji\_!g  oiol pi









I I ..                                                         -                                                              I .-  0
I' .         .S    ... '    ''                 .         :                                                                 '''        "       . 



