Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7441-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1988
Africa Region
Country Departmenlt II
Agriculture Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURENCY AND EXCHANGE RATSE a/
Currency Unit                 =     Kenya Shilling (KSh)
and Pound (KE)
KSh 20                        =     KE 1.0
KSh  1.00                     =     US$ 0.0541
US$  1.00                     -     XSh 18.5
US$  1.00                     =     0.745 SDR (as of November 10, 1988
a/        Since August 1985, tne Keiaya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a
rate of SDR 1 = KSh 17.4. The rate vis-a-vis the US Dollar
fluctuates. A rate of US$ 1 = KSh 18.5 has been used in evaluating
this Project for figures related to 1988 constant prices.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
WE1EHTS AND MEASURES
1 square kilometer (km2)        =    0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha) '                     2.47 acrer.
1 metric ton (t)                -    2,204.62 pounds
1 liter                         -    1.06 quarts
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIOIlS AND ACRONYMS USED
AFC    Agricultural Finance CorporatioL
ASAO   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ERD    External Resources Division (of MOF)
GOK    Government of Kenya
IDA    International Development Association
IR     Implementation Report
KARI   Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KVDA   Kerio Valley Development Authority
M      Million
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA    Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD   Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOLD   Ministry of Livestock Development
MOE    Ministry of Energy
MPND   Ministry of Planning and National Development
MTW    Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife
NGO    Non-Government Organization
PRC    Project Review Committee
RSD    Rural Services Design Project
SOB    Statement of Expenses
SPD    Sector Planning Department
TA     Technical Assistance
UNDP   United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
KEN
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
ProJect and Credit Summary
Borrower:        Government of Kenya
Beneficiaries: Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development, Cooperative
Development, Energy, Wildlife & Tourism, Planning and
National Development, and the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC).
Amount:          US$ 20.8 million equivalent (SDR 15.5 million).
Terms:           Standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity
On-Lendl4n       Gove:'nment will pass on the Credit proceeds to the
Terms:         participating Ministries/agencies as grants, with the
exception of agricultural credit funds, which will be on-lent
to AFC at an interest rate of at least 7.6X (IBRD rate) for
15 years with four years of grace. In turn, AFC will
on-lend to farmers at positive real interest rates.
Pro1ect          The overall project objective is to test effective approaches to
Qb1ectives:      and assess the feasibility of innovative investments in order to
resolve constraints to Kenya's agricultural development and which
offer potential for replication and for raising the productivity
and incomes of the rural population, particularly smallholders.
An important and related objective is to establish a programmatic
investment mechanism and strengthen institutional procedures and
capacities to generate innovative ideas which could be developed
into concrete subprojects.
Project         The subprojects selected and their design features meet the
Descriptin:    following criteria:  strategic to the sustained development
of Kenya's rural sector; improved technical and/or improved
organizational approaches to rsmoving sector constraints;
small Jnvestment size (less than US$ 3.5 million each);
better and sustained resource use; investment priority as
reflected in budgetary allocations; adequate preparation and
documentation prior to start-up. The proposed project will
support initially about ten subprojects which conform with
the project objectives and criteria outlined above. The
project will also provide funds to support additional
subprojects of a strategic and innovative nature, provided
they meet the above-mentioned criteria.
Benefits         The project's main benefit and justification iA that it
and Risks:       offers an improved and programmatic investment mechanism for
devising and testing potentially effective approaches to tap
the productive potential of farmers and rural entrepreneurs.
In addition, the subprojects, although limited In scope, are
expected to generate increased incomes and other tangible
benefits to the participants, most of whom will be
smallholders. If these subprojects prove to be successful,
future returns from the expanded investments are expected to
be substantial. The project's major risks vary aczording to
subproject, but generally involve two aspects. First, some
of the subprojects may not lead to viable solutions or
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(iij
approaches or may be of limited replicability. Second, some of the executing
agencies have limited institutional capacity to carryout and, where
necessary, coordinate the innovative activities proposed. The proposed
project incorporates specific measures to minimize the adverse effect of
these risks. For the first risk, the project will help: (i) ensure the
selection of strategic subprojects through the careful application of sound
pre-determined criteria, under the guidence of a review committee: (ii)
establish clear project design and implementation arrangements prior to
start-up through the preparation of satisfactory implementation reports (IRs)
for each subproject; (iii) reduce the scope and cost of subproject
interventions. As for the second risk, the project emphasizes: (i)
simplified implementation arrangements according to subproject involving
primarily one functional Ministry or agency; (ii) essential short-term
technical assistance inputs, with a strong orientation to on-the-job training
of local staff; and (iii) a strong NEO  yates, including a mid-term joint
review of each subproject.
Estimated Projects Costs
SUBPROJECT                                            (USS K)
LOCAL      FOREIGN    TOTAL
Smallholder Lending                        1 8         1.7        3.5
Ranch Lending                              1.3          0.3       1.6
Deposit Taking                             0.5          0.5       1.0
Livestock Marketing                        1.1          0.9       2.0
Cooperative Management                     1.8         1.6        3.4
Baringo (Phase 2)                          2.3          1.1       3.4
Suam Rehabilitation                        2.2         1.1        3.3
Wildlife Conservation                      2.2          1.2       3.4
Oilseeds Development                       1.7         1.3        3.0
Monitoring & Evaluation                    1.6          1.7       3.3
Other Subprojects/
Unallocated Punds                          2.6          1.7       4.3
Total Base Costs                          19.1        13.1       32.2
Physical Contingencies                     0.8         0.5        1.3
Price Cortingencies                        1.2         0.8        2.0
TOTAL COST                                21.1        14.4       35.5
a/ Inclusive of taxes and duties of about US$0.7 million
Financing Plan                      LOCAL          FOREIGN       TOTAL
------ US S million --------
Government                             6.2           2.7           8.9
Farmers                                0.5           0.3           0.8
IDA                                  11.7            9.1          20.8
UNDP                                   2.7           2.3           5.0
TOTAL                                21.1           14.4          35.5
Estimated IDA Disbursements: (US$ million)
IDA fiscal year   1988/89   1989/90  1990/91  1991/92   1992/93  1993/94
Annual             0.5       4.4        6.8      5.4        3.1      0.6
Cumulative         0.5       4.9       11.7     17.1       20.2     20.8
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Map:   IBRD No. 21135.



(iii)
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Credit and Project Summary                                             J-ii
Table of Contents                                                    iii-iv
I.     THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR;  RECENT PERFORMANCE,
CONSTRAINTS TO GROWTH AND SECTOR STRATEGY
Page Nlo.
A.    Agriculture in Kenya's Economy                            1
B.    Agricultural Performance and Near Term Prospects          1
C.    Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production          2
D.    Recent Actions                                            4
E.    Bank Strategy and Experience in Sector                    5
II.    = EPRQJECT,
A.   Background                                                 7
B.   Rationale for IDA Involvement                              8
C,   Project Conrept and Objectives                             9
D.    Subproject Selection and Design Criteria                  9
E.   Project/Subproject Description                            10
F.    Detailed and Key Features                                10
G.    Implementation Period                                    14
III.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Cost Estimates                                           15
B.    Financing                                                16
C.    Procurement                                              18
D.    Disbursement                                             20
E.   Accounts and Audit                                        21
IV.    PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Overall Arrangements                                      22
B.    Subproject Implementation Arrangements                   23
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation                                 25
D.    Technical Assistance and Training                        27
E.    Operational Plan of Action                               27
V.     BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.    Overview of Benefits and Justificatian                   28
B.    Impact on Women                                          30
C.    Environmental Impact                                     30
D.    Risks                                                    30
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                           32
This Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) is based on project preparation
documentaticn prepared by GOK and IDA and the findings of an IDA
appraisal mission in April/May 1988. Mission members included:
Messrs. R. Anson, (mission leader), G. Rioseco, J. Stemp, S. Muna
(IDA), J. Allaway, S. Bekure, F. Chabari, H. Johnson, P. Macharia,
L. Ngutter and C. Zulberti (Consultants). This report was
prepared by R. Anson, based on the contributions from the mission
members.



(iv)
SUPPORTING ANNEXES                                                   PAGE NO.
I.     CHART I:  APPLICATION OF CRITERIA TO IDE DTIFIED SUBPROJECTS  34
SUBPROJECT EXECUTIVE SUMARIES
1.   Rural Credit (smallholder and ranch lending,
deposit-taking)                                           35
2.   Livestock Marketing                                         41
3.   Cooperative Management                                      47
4.   Baringo (Phase 2)                                           52
5.   Suam Rehabilitation                                         58
6.   Wildlife Conservation                                       64
7.   Oilseeds Development                                        72
8.   Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural
Strategies, Policies and Investments                      78
II.    COST TABLES (according to expenditure category & subproject)
1.   Costs by Subproject and Year (including contingencies)   84
2.   All Subprojects Combined Costs by Year & Expenditure
Category (Base Costs)                                     85
3.   Costs by Year and Expenditure Category                      86
4.  Costs by Year and Expenditure Category
(including contingencies)                                 87
5.   Smallholder Credit Costs by Year and Expenditure
Category                                                  88
6.   Ranch Credit Costs by Year and Expenditure Category         89
7.   Deposit Taking Costs by Year and Expenditure Category    90
8.   Livestock Marketing Subproject Costs by Year and
Expenditure Category                                      91
9.   Cooperative Management Improvement Project (Phase II)
Costs by Year and Expenditure Category                    92
10.  Baringo (Phase II) Subproject Costs by Year and
Expenditure Category                                      93
11.  Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing Subproject
Costs by Year and Expenditure Category                    94
12. Wildlife Development and Conservation Subproject Costs
By Year and Expenditure Category                          95
13.  Suam Catchment Rehabilitation Subproject Costs
By Year and Expenditure Category                          96
14.  Monitoring and Evr"nation Costs by Year and
Expenditure Category                                      97
15.  llnallocated (includes other subproject) Costs by
Year and Expenditure Category                             98
III. FINANCING PLAN AND DISBURSEMENT TABLES
1.   Financing Plan for Overall Project                          99
2.   Financing Plan and Tables for each Subproject        100 - 126
3.   IDA Disbursements by Expenditure Category                  127
4.   IDA Disbursementa by Fiscal Year and Semester              128
IV.    OPERATIONAL PL4N OF ACTION                                      129
CHART                                                           132
1.   Implementation Schedule According to Subproject and
Year                                                    132
Attachment 1 (a & b): Suggested Outline for
Subproject Executive Summary and Implementation Report        133
V.     SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE                          136
M&A Kenya and Indicative Location of RSD Subprojects



KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
I.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR # RECENT PERFORMANCE, CONSTRAINTS TO GROWTH AND
SECTOR STRATEGY
A. Aariculture in Kenya's Economy
1.01    The Kenya Agricultural Sector Report of 1986 provides a detailed
account and analysis of Kenya's agricultural sector characteristics,
objectives, performance and constraints ./. Despite progress in
industrialization, the agricultural sector remains vitally important for the
continued growth and development of the domestic economy. Agriculture's share
of the gross domestic product (about 30%) remains high. The population is
predominantly rural (85%) and agriculture provides employment (directly or
indirectly) for nearly 70% of the nation's people. The sector produces almost
all the nation's food and serves as the main source of export earnings (68% in
1986) and raw materials for the predominantly resource-based industrial
sector. Ranches and large firms account for about 40% of total farmed area
and smallholders cover the remaining 60%; the proportion of land owned and
operated by smallholders will increase with the continuing subdivisiun of
large and group-owned farms. The average size of Kenya's 2 million (M)
smallholdings is about 2.3 ha (1985), with over three quarters of these under
2 ha. Smallholder agriculture accounts for approximately 75% of production
and for 85% of agricultural employment. Smallholder-oriented strategy is
therefore crucial to increased production and growth.
B. Agricultural Performance and Near Term Prospects
1.02    The first decade after independence showed vigorous agricultural
growth (4.7% per annum). Howefer, this slowed to an average of 3.2% between
1972 and 1983, while population growth accelerated to 3.9%, signalling a trenl
towards decline in per capita production. Most agricultural growth in the
past 20 years has come about as a result of:
(i)    expansion in land area cultivated;
(ii)   improved producer prices;
(iii) increased availability of farm inputs; and
(iv)   farm investment in livestock, tree crops, equipment, land
improvement, irrigation and other infrastructure.
During much of the past decade, Government of Kenya (GOK) investment in
agricultural extension, research and animal health services declined, there
were problems in fertilizer distribution and agricultural labour use
stagnated. dowever, GOK has recently made a serious effort to bring about
improvements, in particular in extension and animal health services.
Government's Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 (Economic Growth through Reviewed
Management) highlights the critical importance of the agricultural sector and
outlines sound polic,.' and investment framework for accelerating sustained
agricultural growth to the year 2000.
1/       Kenya Agricultural Sector Report No. 4629-KE;  January 1986.



1.03    In order for the agricultural sector to help meet Kenya's development
targets, the sources of future agricultural growth must change because: (i)
continued expansion in cultivated land area is severely constrained; and (ii)
greater production incentives are difficult to provide now that prices for
main commodities have reached approximate world price parity levels. Timely
crop payments to farmers, expanded extension services, and greater private
sector involvement in the provision of services/inputs, including credit and
marketing facilities and servJces, will be the main instruments for obtaining
higher yields primarily through known techniques. In the semi-arid areas,
which offer potential for increased production, suitable technologies need to
be tested under farmer conditions before being ready for dissemination.
1.V0   Analysis undertaken as part of the recent Bank sector report (para
1.01) indicated that, without significant agricultural policy changes and the
widespread introduction of improved technology, agricultural growth is
unlikely to keep up with population growth. It is therefore essential for
Kenya to shift to a strategy of improving agricultural productivity through
more effective provision of public rural services and technologies and
enhanced role of private rural investment and services. Farm investment
(private and public) should be encouraged simultaneously and the supply of
fertilizer and other farm inputs shall also to be expanded. The policy
changes required for this are embodied in the Kenya Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO), which closed on June 30, 1988, and which forms a
policy framework for individual projects such as the National Agricultural
Research Project (KARP) and the National Extension P2ogram.
C. Constraints to Increased Agricultural Production
1.05    Land Availability.  The major constraint for agricultural/growth and
development in Kenya is the shortage of good quality arable land, exacerbated
by already high population densities and continued rapid population growth.
Only about 20% of Kenya's 575,000 sq km is high or medium quality land;
another 9% can produce crops but is subject to periodic drought. The
remaining land area is suitable mainly for cattle production. In the early
1960s, Kenya had about two acres of high potential land per person; in the
year 2000, that will be reduced to half an acre. Future growth must come
about mainly through intensification of smallholder production, combined with
effective resource conservation and supported by improved agricultural
services.
1.06    Incentives.  Production incentives have generally been improved over
the last five years, particularly as official prices for many crops have
increased substantially, and are close to export or import parity levels.
Nevertheless, many farmers do not receive the official prices due to lengthy
delays in payouts, high marketing deductions, particularly by cooperatives,
and insufficient and under-developed marketing channels. Official marketing
monopolies for several crops have been inefficient and costly. Only recently,
as part of the ASAO, have steps been taken to work out and implement improved
and efficient marketing and payments arrangements, particularly for maize,
coffee and cotton. On the grain marketing issue, the Government has adonted
and has begun to modify National Cereal and Produce Board's (NCPB) role as
primary procurer of grains, by making it more of a regulatory body focussing
on food security requirements. A Cabinet Paper on the subject was approved in
mid-December. NCPB's procurement role has begun to be reduced with the
closure of a number of "buying" stations. Maize trading is being opened up to



- 3 -
cooperatives and licensed traders. The implications of this reduced role for
NCPB's management and budget are spelt out in a detailed implementation plan
now approved and underway.
1.07    Agricultural Services and Inputs.  In addition to shortages of land,
agricultural growth has been affected by poor development of agricultural
services, particularly those directed towards smallholder farmers.  After
major successes in the 1960s, the capacity of Kenya's agricultural research
system declined.  The Government has recently initiated a National
Agricultural Research Project to revita" ze and re-orient agricultural
research; the program is being funded b. IDA and several other donors (Cr
1849-KE). Agricultural extension is being improved through the
IDA/IFAD-financed National Extension Project (Cr 1387-KE) but only covers a
limited range of crops and has not been extended to the ASAL areas. Support
for livestock extension has been negligible and services are under-staffed and
under-budgeted. In agricultural credit, public credit institutions are weak,
notably, the Agricultural Finance Corporation, credit discipline is poor,
repayment rates are low, commercial bank lending is constrained, and credit
policies have not sufficiently improved access to credit for resource-poor
farmers. Although input use in Kenya is/relatively high, use of especially
fertilizer has stagnated in the last decade; use among smallholders and on
food crops is notably low.
1.08    Institutional Issues.  In Kenya, responsibilities for agricultural
policy making, the administration of agricultural programs and projects, and
the provision of services to the agricultural sector are shared by numerous
institutions. Chief among these are the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA),
Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD), Ministry of Research, Science and
Technology (MSRT), Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD), Agricultural
Finance Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK). Two
central institutions, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Offi_a of the
President (OP), also play an important role in agricultural policy making,
most notably in the areas of pricing, marketing and inputs. The Ministry of
Planning and National Development (MPND) is responsible for economic planning;
MPND also coordinates certain multi-sectoral projects. Performance in many
areas is uneven and, in some cases, dificient. MOA (and now also MOLD)
attempt to manage a large project portfolio. Various implementation problems
are due to weak management, inadequately trained staff, poor planning and
monitoring of work programs, and inadequate allocation of funds to non-salary
operating expenses. With few exceptions, the agricultural parastatals suffer
from under-capitalization, weak financial management and accounting
procedures, ineffective supervision, and poor personnel policies.
Cooperatives are the major marketing and input supply channels for coffee,
cotton, cashew and other cash crops. Although private sector institutions,
cooperatives are regulated by the Cooperatives Act and supervised by MOCD.
Cooperatives have shown disappointing performance ard the majority are
afflicted by weak management, and inadequate financial and accounting controls.
1.09    Management and institutional problems remain important constraints to
development. This is particularly true in the public sector which provides
critical services to smallholder farmers (research, extension and credit) and
whose policies have a direct role in shaping farmer response. It is becoming
increastngly apparent that there is a widening gap between management
resources and the demand placed upon those resources, affecting policy,
program implementation, delivery of services and absorptive capr.city.
Addressing institutional problems will require a combination of: cutting down



- 4 -
on lower priority activities; redirecting scarce managerial talent to priority
tasks; redesigning and streamlining systems commensurate with resources;
improving work conditions in order to retain competent staff; and bringing the
budgetary procedures more into line with performance and annual woric
programs. There is also a great need for management and financial training of
staff in ministries and agencies in the sector.
1.10    Capital formation in the agricultural sector has declined from 2.5% of
GDP in 1978 to 1.45% in 1983. Returns to public sector investment have mostly
been low because of poorly conceived projects and weak project management.
Public sector agricultural credit schemes reach few smallholder families; out
of some 2 million farm households, only 90,000 (mainly medium and large scale
farmers), receive credit from the AFC. This Corporation has severe
institutional problems: a poor quality portfolio, unclear objectives and low
recovery rates. Private banks concentrate on short-term lending to the large
farm sector. Term lending in agriculture dropped to 25% of total term lending
to the economy in 1983 (against an average of 35% in the 1970s). Private
investment has been discouraged by low returns and legal barriers to entry in
processing and marketing.
D. Recent Actions
1.11    The Agricultural Sector Adlustment Program.  In 1985, GOK decided to
deal comprehensively with the above constraints to agricultural development,
with the formulation of a comprehensive reform programs in the g"ricultural
sector. This was included in the Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 kref. to para
1.02). The first phase of this reform program was initiated through the
IDA-supported Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO).l/ The
measures being taken in the context of the Credit and Special African Facility
for the adjustment program (Cr 1717-KE), are at the core of GOK's development
strategy; their implementation of the ASAO would create an environment in
which investments to improve agricultural services would be more rewarding to
farmers and financially sustainable, and where well-designed and conducted
agricultural research could have a much greater effect on productivity.
Specifically, they include:
(i)    increased fertilizer imports;
(ii)   improved fertilizer policy (pricing, marketing, distribution);
(iii) adjustment in policies for (and increased supply of) other
inputs (seeds, chemicals and machinery);
(iv) expansion in credit availability through policy reform;
(v)    higher producer prices and improved agricultural marketing
systems including a greater role for the/private sector;
(vi)   greater Government budget allocations to agriculture with
expenditures on research and extension to be significantiy
increased in real terms; and
I/ For details, see Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operations (President's
Report No. P4278-KE), June 1966.



- 5 -
(vii) more efficient investmc.-. in agriculture through the budget
rationalization program, improved sector management and aid
coordination.
1.12    Satisfactory progress has already been made in implementation of the
adjustment program with policy improvements being generally introduced on
schedule. The progress resulted in the release of the second and final
tranche in February 1988. Some of these decisions and actions included:
(i)    reform of the maize marketing system and the National Cereals
and Produce Board, with a phased expanded role for the private
sector;
(ii)   improvements in fertilizer marketing, pricing, import licensing
and planning, resulting in increased and more timely supplies;
(iii)  maintenance of producer prices at appropriate incentive levels
(appropriately adjusted world prices);
(iv)   the launching of important reforms in the AFC;
(v)    implementation of financial and organ.!zational restructuring of
selected State Corporations in the agriculture sector, and
(vi)   favourable progress in budget rationalization for the
agriculture sector.
E. Bank Strategy and ExDerience in the Sector
1.13    The Bank group's strategy for assisting Kenya's igricultural
development coincides with Government objectives. It is growth-oriented, with
a primary emphasis on the intensification of production, particularly of
smallho'ders, which offers much untapped potential and meets complementary
goals of income distribution as well as employment and foreign exchange
generation. The Bank's lending program consists of two complementary
components: (i) policy-oriented lending (e.g. the adjustment program; and (ii)
project lending. The impact of the latter is being enhanced by the former and
includes projects to: improve essential farmer services (especially research,
extension, animal health, input supply, marketing and credit); address key
physical/resource management issues (forestry and soil conservation); support
better policy planning, and above all, implementation; assist in restructuring
public investments and in strengthening management services; provide training
for agricultural staff; and promote aid coordination.
1.14    To date, the Bank group has financed over 30 projects in Kenya's
agricultural sector (agriculture, forestry and fisheries). The present
portfolio of six on-going projects reflects substantial pruning and a
redirection of effort toward strategic priorities. Future project lending
will directly complement the Government's sector adjustment program, providing
integrated support for longer-term institution building and development of
improved agricultural and farmer services. The "pipeline" includes, in
addition to the proposed project, proposals in the areas of forestry,
semi-arid land development, agricultural extension (Phase II), agricultural
sector adjustment (Phase II), national credit and coffee (Phase II). The
practical experience gained through project implementation has been
complemented by considerable sector work. In addition to the 1986



- 6 -
Agricultural Sector Report, studies have been done on agricultural inputs,
credit, maize marketing and pricing, farmer incentives, irrigation, land
issues, cooperatives, the public investment program, resource allocation,
private sector investment, coffee, forestry, and non-government
organizations. These studies provide the basis for a continuation of Bank
group lending, including further elaboration of policy reforms.
1.15    Recent Studies, Project Completion Reports and Project Performance
Audit Peports for agricultural projects in Kenya have provided many
recomme1Ldations. Two lessons are particularly relevant for the proposed
project. first, project design must account for Government's limited
institutional and management capacity. Second, pilot efforts to work out
effective technical and organizational approaches prior to launching an
expanded project have proven to be an effective approach to rationalizing
scarce public resources, to iecuring tangible beneits and to helping ensure
smooth implementation of projects on an expanded scale.



-7-
II. tEPROJECT
A. Background
2.01    Pro1ect Rationale.  The main project rationale stems from past
difficulties in implementing innovative investments and from the limited
institutional capacity and arrangements to translate a strategic overview of
the sector into innovative investments which offer the potential for
replication. Past experience in Kenya has demonstrated that many investment
programs (IADPs, group farms, etc) have not generated the intended benefits
primarily because of a failure to work out the most effective design and
implementation arrangements prior to embarking on a large scale. Recent
experience has shown that testing innovative approaches for increasing
agricultural growth and equity is an effective method for implementing the
Government's sectoral strategies and budget rationalization program. Such
innovative approaches to investments have included Agricultural Extension, the
AFC North Rift Credit Project, Baringo Semi-Arid Areas Project, and
Cooperative Management Pilot Project. While favourable results have been
generated from these initiatives, the funding of the latter four projects has
come to a close and the results are still not conclusive for determining their
success or failure and merits for replication. Therefore, there is still a
need to further extend and broaden the implementation experience for some of
these initiatives prior to expanding these activities on a large scale. There
are other strategic investments which need to be tested and adapted to field
conditions prior to expanding them with the full confidence that the benefits
will materialize as intended. Given the current fragmentation of the
agriculture se:tor among numerous Ministries and agencies, there is also a
need to establish and strengthen institutional arrangements, procedures and
capacities to generate and maintain a strategic overview of the sector which
will help guide the selection, design and evaluation of innovative investment
concepts. It is also anticipated that the implementation experience of
carrying out innovative investments on a limited basis and the strengthening
of institutional procedures and capacities for strategic investment, if
successful, will greatly facilitate GOK's ability to mobilize and coordinate
additional donor funding for the expanded phase of the subprojects.
2.02    Subsector Constraints.  The proposed project will address the main
constraints involving strategic subsectors in Kenya's rural areas. These
subsectors include: rural credit and savings mobilization; livestock
marketing; cooperatives; arid and seni-arid lands; wildlife and
agro-processing. The section below highlights the main constraints according
to subsector.
O      Rural Credit and Savinms Mobilization:  One of the major
constraints to implementing the strategy of crop
intensification and to attaining the required/agricultural
growth targets is a deficient credit delivery system to the
majority of Kenya's 2 million smallholder families. Morever,
the AFC, the Government's major source of agricultural credit,
has provided credit to only 5X of Kenya's farmers and has only
recently initiated efforts to help establish its financial
viability.
o      Livestock Marketina:  In early 1937, GOK decontrolled beef
prices. However, there are numerous other livestock marketing
constraints, including deficient market information, which are
suppressing the potential benefits to consumers and producers
of decontrolled beef prices.



- 8 -
o      Cooperative Development:  About 60% of Kenya's 2 million
smallholders rely on cooperatives for the marketing of their
agricultural outputs and provision of agricultural inputs.
Morever, agricultural cooperatives handle the marketing of
nearly 60% of the total value of the cash crops marketed in
Kenya. Recent initiatives introduced by GOK to liberalize the
marketing arrangements away from monopoly trading bodies will
also rely on cooperative marketing activities. The majority of
cooperatives, and the Ministry of Cooperative Development
(MOCD), which has a mandate to help develop and supervise
cooperative activities, have suffered from major problems,
most of which are management-related.
O      Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) Manaaement and Development:
About 70% of Kenya's land resources are in ASAL areas, and
approximately 30% of Kenya's future agricultural growth is
assumed to be derived from these areas. However little
progress has been made in working out sustainable technical and
organizational approaches to developing the ASALs and
increasing agricultural productivity.
O      Wildlife:  The deterioration of Kenya's wildlife resources, and
related conflicts with agricultural land use patterns,
threatens to curtail the significant foreign exchange earnings
generated through tourism (about 35% of total earnings in 1987).
o      Apro-Processina:  One of the major means to increasing rural
incomes, employment and growth, reducing imports and increasing
exports is expected to be through the development of
agro-processing facilities for which Kenya has a
comparative/advantage. To date, relatively little effort and
experience has been gained in a subsector which seems to offer
promise, if properly approached.
B. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.03    The Bank's broad strategy for assisting the agricultural sector
includes strengthening Government's capacity to formulate and implement sound
policies and supporting strategic investments which would accelerate sustained
growth of agricultural productivity and incomes of the rural population.
While the Bank Group is supporting a number of traditional investments to
implement this strategy, there are some potentially promising and viable
investments which involve new initiatives, but which need to be tested to
obtain effective solutions before embarking on a large scale.
2.04    The main rationale for IDA's involvement is to provide "seed"
resources through innovative investments and implementation assistance to help
efforts to establish the potential benefits of several strategic investments
before being expanded. This IDA involvement will also: (i) help Government
establish a programmatic investment mechanism and institutional procedures for
screening, designing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating strategic
initiatives, which otherwise may not be adequately supported because of their
small size and element of risk; (ii) help Government build a pipeline of
strategic investment projects for donor financing and for start-up in the
early 1990s; (iii) strengthen the Government's capacity to implement more



- 9 -
effectively its budget rationalization program through establishing the
project's investment and institutional mechanismb and procedures, which will
also promote donor coordination and financing of priority investments; (iv)
help carry out the implementation of the policy decisions included in the
ASAO; and (v) provides IDA with an instrument for operationalizing its sector
work and policy dialogue in subsectors where future lending is promising, but
still uncertain.
C. Proiect Conceot and Objectives
2.05    The overall project objective is to test the feasibility of and most
effective approaches to implementing innovative investments which could
resolve constraints to agricultural development and which offer potential for
replication and for raising the productivity and incomes of the rural
population. An important and related objective is to help establish a
programmatic investment mechanism and institutional procedures and capacity to
generate innovative ideas which could be developed into concrete subprojects.
Specific project objectives are: to improve the credit delivery services to
smallholders including women groups, and ranch holders; to introduce measures
which mobilize rural savings; to improve the efficiency of livestock
marketing; to/improve the management of and support services to cooperatives;
to test improved and sustainable approaches to the rehabilitation of arid and
semi-arid areas and wildlife management; to promote rural level
agro-processing; and to strengthen Government's capacity to identify and
prioritize strategic agricultural investments and policies. Findings and
lessons learned from each subproject are expected to contribute to expanded
projects in the future, some on a national scale, if proven successful.
D.  Suborolect Criteria for Selection and Desin
2.06    Criteria for the selection and design of a subproject are as follows:
Mi)    strategic imoortance to the future sustained development of
Kenya's rural sector, as indicated by its role to helping to
implement the strategies outlined in GOK's Sessional Paper No.
1 of 1986, with particular emphasis on:
o      contributing a potential source of sustained
agricultural gzowth through helping to remove
constraint(s) to growth and/or developing untapped
sources of growth;
o      increasing incomes and employment of the rural
population, particularly those with low incomes;
o      offering the potential for replication over a larger
area, with suitable adjustments;
o      providing "seed" funds for mubilizing private investment
and promoting rural entrepreneurship in income and
employment generating activities;
(ii) exhibits improved technology and/or organizational arranaement
in its design and/or implementation which needs to be tested
on a limited scale before being expanded;



- 10 -
(iii) relatively small investment size, but sufficient to determine the
merits of the innovation being tested and for reaching a decision
on whether to terminate or expand the follow-up phase; as an
initial guide, the subprojects should cost less than US$ 3.5
million(mid-1988 constant prices) over a 2-4 year implementation
period.
(iv)   promotes improved and sustained resource use, including land,
human and financial resources;
(v)    the subproject is a priority activity of the participating
Ministry/agency as indicated in its policy statement and its
budgetary commitment to the subproject. The project should be
shown in the draft budget estimates and the draft forward budget,
and a firm commitment made that it will be reflected in the final
budget estimates;
The subproject proposal should provide adequate documentation for ensuring that
it conforms with the above criteria and provides an initial guide to
implementation. In this regard, an executive summary is needed for deciding
whether the subproject would be supported and a satisfactory implementation
report would be needed prior to subproject start-up. This documenation should
also indicate clearly the specific performance indicators which would be used to
determine the success a failure and justification for replication.
2.07    At negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that the above
criteria would be used to select and design the subprojects supported by the
Project. In the event the above criteria need to be modified and/or improved
during implementation, assurances were also obtained that such changes would be
reviewed and agreed with IDA.
E. Proiect/Subproiect Description
2.08    The proposed project, which would be implemented over a period of 5
years, will initially support ten subprojects. These investments were proposed
by the executing agencies and they conform with the project objectives and
criteria outlined above. Annex 1, Chart 1 shows how each of the subprojects
comply with the criteria. These activities involve improvements in: rural
credit delivery services to smallholders, including women groups, and rural
savings mobilization; livestock marketing; cooperative management; arid and
semi-arid land management and development, including environmental
rehabilitation and wildlife management; rural-based agro-processing; and
monitoring and evaluation of agricultural sector strategies and policies.
F. Detailed and Key Features
2.09    The main objectives and key features of the identified subprojects are
highlighted below. Further details for each subproject, including the subsector
rationale, are provided in the Executive Summaries in Annex 1. The project file
contains the draft implementation report for each subproject, which will guide
its activities, particularly during the first two years.



- 11 -
(i)     Smalltolder lending (Base Cost, US$ 3.5 M).  Aims: to broaden and
further test the implementation of innovativce approaches to increasing
the share of credit resources to smallholders and to improving credit
management capacity in 7 out of a total of 50 branches of the AFC,
building on the limited experience initiated towards the end of the
IDA-supported AFC IV project.
Key features will include: improvements in AFC's loan analysis and
processing capabilities, credit management and supervision procedures;
introduction of credit-extension linkages; introduction of group
lending procedures by AFC, particularly for women farmers, which may
be assisted by a NGO with demonstrated experience. Subproject funds
will be used primarily for incremental credit to smallholders,
including groups.
(ii)    Ranch lendinx (Base Costs, US$ 1.6 M).  Aims: to introduce significant
improvements in the management, technical and supervision approach
followed by AFC in lending for ranch development, based on efforts to
make financially viable 2 of 25 company/group ranches which have
outstanding debts to AFC. Key features will include: redefining the
roles and responsibilities of the various participants and introducing
improved management related measures and approaches to AFC's ranch
lending activities. Project funds will be used for rehabilitating the
management of 4 group ranches and for some limited credit to help
establish the financial viability of these and possibly other ranches
undergoing management restructuring.
(*iii) Deposit taking (Base Cost, USt 1.0 M). Aims: to test AFC's capacity
to introduce deposit taking activitie3 designed to foster rural
savings and strengthen AFC's future financial base and viability. A
key feature will include supporting Government's intention to
establish a subsidiary, the Agricultural Development Bank, through
working out and testing the most effective approaches to carrying out
the deposit taking activities in about five of AFC's branch offices. A
key determinant of success will be ADB's capacity to compete
effectively with the other banks and non-bank financial institutions
taking deposits in rural areas. Project funds will be used
principally for civil works (mostly rehabilitation of existing AFC
facilities), office equipment, training and operating expenses to
enable the start-up and deposit-taking activities in selected AFC
branches.
(iv)    Livestock Marketinx (Basa Cost, US$ 2.0 M).  Aims: to help achieve the
anticipated benefits of GOK's decision to decontrol beef prices
through measures that would improve the efficiency of livestock
marketing in a major producing area (southern rangelands) for the
benefit of both producers and consumers. It is anticipated that the
lessons learned would be replicated on a national scale. Key features
will include: introduction of a livestock market intelligenco system,
marketing training and supporting services; introduction of an auction
system; delegating the operation and management of market facilities
to local (district) government; introducing unsecured loans to groups
of smallscale primary traders through group guarantee; introduction of
extension services, livestock inputs and mobile banking services at
auction yards; and collaboration with a NGO who is currently carrying
out a self-help project in the subproject area. Project funds will be



- 12 -
used primarily for rehabilitating selected infrastructure, TA and
training, equipment and non-salary operating expenses for supporting
livestock marketing and information services.
(v)     Coonerative Management Improvement (Base Cost, US$ 3.4 M).  Aims:  to
develop and implement mpasures which would improve management capacity
and performance at the cooperative society/union level and to improve
MOCD's effectiveness at the field level in providing services to
cooperatives. This subproject will build on the limited experience
gained under Phase 1, which was assisted by the IDA-supported
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project(SCIP, closed in March 1987),
and provides the basis for a national program of improving cooperative
management. Key features will include: introduction of a training
and follow-up system to MOCD's field personnel service>; re-orienting
MOCD's training from the traditional regulatory and supervisory
activities toward business management and advisory services. Project
funds will be used primarily for vehicles, training in cooperative
management, and non-salary operating expenses.
(vi)    Darinao (Base Cost, US$ 3.4 M).  Aims: to develop, test and adapt an
improved and replicable approach to the provision of rural services in
ASAL areas. A long term objective would be to generate more reliable
and sustaineble increased levels of crop and livestock production in
ASAL areas. The findings from the Baringo subproject, which is a
second phase effort, are expected to contribute to the design and
implementation of GOK's national ASAL program. Kev features will
include: improved resource planning methods which would involve/the
participation of beneficiaries; introduction of cost sharing
arrangements with the beneficiaries for various project facilities,
particularly for operation and maintenance activities; a flexible and
improved financing mechanism which will support the bottom-up
investment planning to be developed and implemented under the
project. Project funds will be used to develop physical works such as
small scale irrigation, training, equipment and vehicles and
non-salary operating expenses.
(vii)   Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation (Base Cost, US$ 3.3 M) Aims: to
test an innovative and low cost approach to planning and implementing
land rehabilitation efforts in semi-arid areas; to begin to achieve
improved range and agricultural resource productivity in the
subproject area; to begin to reduce silt loads in the Suam River and
eventual sedimentation in the Turkwel Gorge reservoir; to develop
increased institutional capabilities on the part of the Kerio Valley
Development Authority and the West Pokot district staff to carry ouit
land planning and rehabilitation projects in an expanded phase. The
approaches developed in the subproject are also expected eventually to
be replicated in the entire Suam catchment and to provide useful
experience to the proposed national ASAL program. Key features will
include: active involvement of the beneficiaries in the planning and
implementation of project interventions; introduction of low-cost
technical approaches to rehabilitating degraded land. Project funds
will be used primarily for civil works to rehabilitate degraded land
with production potential, equipment, technical assistance and
training and non-salary operating expenses.



- 13 -
(viii) Wildlife Conservation and DeveloDment (Base Cost, US$ 3.4 M) Aims: to
develop improved ways of increasing and more equitably distributIng
the economic benefits of wildlife, while conserving wildlife
populations and protecting the ecological integrity of wildlife areas.
It is anticipated that the project would provide useful lessons and
input to a preposed national project. Key features will include
testing measures which would: increase tourism benefits to residents
of wildlife dispersal areas around parks and reserves; reduce costs
from wildlife to the agriculture and property of residents in these
areas; improve the management of parks and reserves to better protect
wildlife and habitats and better provide for the needs of neighboring
people. Project funds will be used primarily for rehabilitating
facilities in game parks, provision of selected facilities in adjacent
areas, equipment, vehicles, training and non-salary operating expenses.
(ix)    Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing (Base Cost, USt 3.0 M)
Aims: to promote the economic cultivation of oilseeds and its rural
processing to satisfy the local demand for edible oils and protein
cake, and reduce the utilization of scarce foieign exchange to import
those commodities (amounting to about US$ 60-80 million per year). It
is anticipated that the lessons learned would be replicated in other
rural areas and integrated with other ongoing efforts in developing
Kenya's potential in oilseeds development. Key features will include:
the development of low input agricultural technology for oilseeds
production, directed to the ASAL areas and complementary to other
crops; introduction of rural-based low-cost tecnnology for processing
of oilseeds in rural areas; testing a comprehensive model currently
being developed for promoting the integrated development of the entire
oilseeds industry. Project funds would be used primarily to support
agricultural research of oilseeds, equipment, vehicles, and non-salary
operating expenses.
(x)     Monitorinx and Evaluation of the ImDact of Agricultural and Rural
DeveloDment Strategies (MEARDS) (Base Cost, USt 3.3 M1) Alms: to
establish a system for monitoring and evaluating the impact of
agricultural and rural development strategies; and to execute and or
supervise the impact evaluation of the proposed subprojects in order
to determine their merits for replication. A long term objective is
to help institutionalize Kenya's capacity to assess and refine its
agricultural strategies and investment programs. Key features will
include: explicit linking of data collection and analysis with the key
strategies and programs outlined in the Sessional Paper and in the
Sixth Five Year Plan(1988-1992); strengthening the MPND in
stimulating feedback on the implementation and effectiveness of
programs and policy; supporting improved approaches in the delivery of
technical support to the line Ministries, such as through the
subcontracting of evaluation services to a suitable local University.
Project funds will be used primarily for equipment, vehicles, TA
(including subcontracting to local Universities) training and
non-salary operating expenses.
2.10    Unallocated Funds and Unidentified SubDrolects (Base Cost_. US$4.3 M).
Aims to provide a flexible investment mechanism for financing promising
subprojects which conform with project objectives and criteria. Unallocated
funds are provided in the project to implement some additional unidentified
subprojects, provided they meet the criteria outli -d in para 2.06. In the



- 14 -
event some of the above mentioned subprojects require additional funds to meet
their objectives, a portion of the unallocated funds will also be available. A
Project Review Committee (PRC) will be established with the objectives of: (i)
deciding on the proposals for new subprojects, based on the criteria outlined in
para 2.06; and (ii) reviewing periodically the progress of the subprojects being
implemented and determining the merits of expansion, based on the monitoring and
evaluation findings.
2.11    During negotiations assurance. were obtained from Government that: (i)
the selection and implementation of subprojects funded from the project,
including the unidentified subprojects, will conform to the criteria outlined in
para 2.06; (ii) proposals for using unallocated funds for additional subprojects
and/or the above mentioned subprojects will be reviewed and approved by the PRC,
and submitted to IDA for final approval.
2.12    Through the PRC, the project will aim to introduce measures which could
help generate innovative ideas from the public and private sector for possible
support by the project. Some of these measures could include: certificate of
recognition to individuals and/or Government Officials for promising investment
proposals accepted by the PRC; provision of seed money to prepare promising
proposals. During implementation, efforts would be made to identify additional
measures which will help promote the generation of promising investment
proposals which comply with the subproject criteria in para 2.06.
G. Implementation Period
2.13    The project will be implemented over a five year period, from 1988/89 to
1992/93. However, the implementation period for individual subprojects will
vary from 2-4 years, depending on the/time required for securing tangible
results, budgetary allocations and expected timing of the expanded phase.
Provided adequate budgetary resources are allocated during 1988/89, five
subprojects (smallholder lending, ranch lending, deposit taking, cooperative
managoment and Baringo) are ready to start-up in the current year, primarily
because they are building on on-going efforts. The remaining subprojects
identified above will start-up by July 1989. Chart 1 in Annex IV summarizes the
implementation period for each of the proposed subprojects.



- 15 -
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
3.01    The cost of the proposed project is estimated to be about KSh 709.4
million (or US$ 35.5 million equivalent), including physical and price
contingencies totalling about KSh 113.0 million. Local taxes and duties are
expected to he small (about US$ 700,000), on the assumption that Government will
waive the taxes and duties on equipment and vehicles financed under the project.
Foreign exchange costs, direct and indirect, are estimated at about US$ 14.4
million, or 401 of total project costs. These project costs comprise the above
mentioned 10 subprojects, whose costs range from US$ 1.0-3.5 million (1988
constant prices), and unallocated funds for primarily unidentified subprojects
conforming to the project criteria outlined in para 2.06. Table 3.1 summarizes
the project costs according to the subprojects (for further details, see Annex 2,
Tables 1-15).
Table 3.1 - Summary Cost Estimates (KSh M and US$ M)
ZOF   ZOF
SUBPROJECT              LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL  FOREIGN BASE
KSh M------- ----- US $ M ------
Smallholder Lending      33.6    31.4   65.0   1.8    1.7   3.5         48    11
Ranch Lending            24.7      4.6   29.3   1.3    0.3   1.6        16     5
Deposit Taking            9.6      9.1   18.7   0.5    0.5   1.0        49      3
Livestock Marketing      21.0    16.0   37.0   1.1    0.9   2.0         43     6
Cooperative Management  33.6    30.0   63.6   1.8    1.6   3.4          47    11
Baringo (Phase II)       43.0    20.4   63.4   2.3    1.1   3.4         32    11
Suam Rehabilitation      40.2    20.3   60.5   2.2    1.1   3.3         34    10
Wildlife Conservation   41.0    21.8   62.8   2.3    1.1   3.4          35    11
Oilseeds Development    31.0    23.7   54.7   1.7    1.3   3.0          43     9
M & E                    29.9    31.7   61.6   1.6    1.7   3.3         50    10
Unallocated Funds/       47.8    32.0   79.8   2.2    1.7   4.3         40    13
Other Subprojects
Total Base Costs        355.4   241.0  596.4  19.1   13.1  32.2         40   100
Physical Contingencies  14.8    10.1   24.9   0.8    0.5   1.3          40
Price Contingencies       52.4   35.7   88.1   1.2    0.8   2.0         40
TOTAL COST               422.6  286.8   709.4 21.1   14.4  35.5         40
c ia  cmo    ==0=== Z       =3===          GP
Inflation Rates(Z):      PY88/89 FY89/90  FY90191  FY91192 FY 92193
Local                     8.0      6.0      5.0       5.0     5.0
Foreign                   7.3      3.9      1.4       1.8     2.9
3.02    Base costs reflect prices of October 1988, based on recent quotations
and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies are about 5 X of base
costs. Price contingencies indicated above are in accordance with Bank
estimates of expected inflation rates for local and foreign costs. It is



- 16 -
anticipated that periodic local currency devaluations, to maintain constant
purchasing power parity of the Kenya Shilling, would compensate for the
difference between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
B. Financing
3.03    The project costs of US$ 35.5 million equivalent will be financed as
follows: IDA: US$ 20.8 million, or 59Z of total project costs; UNDP: US$ 5.0
million, or 14Z of total project costs; farmers, as part of their contribution
to the agricultural credit, US$ 0.8 million, or 22 of total project costs; and
GOK and its participating Ministries: US$ 8.9 million, or the remaining 25Z of
total project costs. Table 3.2 summarizes the financing plan according to
expenditure category for the overall project.
Table 3.2 - Summary Financing Plan
EXPENDITURE              IDA       UNDP      FARMERS     GOK         TOTAL
CATEGORY             US$1M  2     US$M  z      US$M  2    US$4  %    US$M   2
1. Civil Works        5.4  90     0.0    0    0.0   0    0.6   10   6.0   100
2. Equipment          3.0  80     0.0    0    0.0   0    0.8   20   3.8   100
3. Vehicles           2.2  80     0.0    0    0.0   0    0.5   20   2.7   100
4. T.A.               1.8  50     1.8   50    0.0   0    0.0    0   3.6   100
5. Training           1.8  39     2.9   61    0.0   0    0.0    0   4.7   100
6. Salaries &
Allowances         0.0   0     0.0    0    0.0   0    3.1  100   3.1   100
7. Non-salary
operating costs   3.1  50      0.0    0    0.0   0    3.1   50   6.2   100
8. Credit             3.5  64     0.3   6      0.8  15    0.8   15   5.4   100
TOTAL            20.8  59      5.0   14    0.8   2    8.9   25   35.5  100
min= ==      ==      o    -=   =     q=    =      =="L
3.04    UNDP has agreed in principle, subject to formal approval, to
cofinance the following four subprojects, which are included in UNDP's
agreed country program for Kenya: smallholder credit; cooperative
management; oilseeds development and the Monitoring and Evaluation of
Agricultural Strategies and Policies. UNDP's funds will be on a parallel
(vis-a-vis IDA funds) and grant basis in accordance with standard UNDP
terms, and would contribute to primarily the technical assistance and
training requirements of these subp"ojects. It is agreed that the
Government implementing agency concerned will execute the subprojects
cofinanced with UNDP.
3.05    The project's financing plan, particularly IDA's and UNDP's share,
is designed to minimize the budgetary burden on GOK and its participating
Ministries. The IDA credit of US$ 20.8 million would finance about 63% of
the direct and indirect foreign exchange cost, and approximately 55% of the
local costs, including a portion of incremental non-salary operating costs.
IDA is providing retroactive financing for up to US$ 1.9 million on agreed
expenditures incurred after September 1, 1988. These funds will help
finance the detailed preparation and start-up of various subprojects,
including the Smallholder Lending, Ranch Lending, Deposit Taklng,
Cooperative Management and Baringo. These latter subprojects, with the



- 17 -
exception of the deposit-taking, are second phases part of on-going
activities, where maintaining the momentum in implementation is essential to
meeting the project objectives of generating early experience.
3.06    Approximately US$3.5 million of the Credit will be lent by
Government to the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement for supporting the smallholder and ranch lending
subprojects. About US$2.7 million will be provided by Government to AFC as
equity contribution to support AFC"s institutional objectives under the
three subprojects of smallholder lending, ranch lending and deposit taking.
The interest rate changed to AFC will be not less than the prevailing IBRD
lending rate at the time of negotiations, namely 7.6%, and will be
repayable over 15 years with a grace period of four years. The US$3.5
million for agricultural credit will be onlent by AFC to farmers at interest
rates which are positive in real terms, with repayment terms acceptable to
IDA.  Currently, these rates are 12" for seasonal credit and 14% for
development credit. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that it will: (a) ensure that AFC maintains positive real
interest rates; and (b) within the context of its periodic review of
interest rates for its lending institutions, by June 30 of each year
commencing June 30, 1989, review AFC's interest rates to ensure that the
rates are: (i) positive in real terms; (ii) provide AFC with an adequate
spread over its operations and lending risks; and (iii) are consistent with
market rates. Moreover, IDA would discuss with the Borrower, during IDA's
periodic review missions of AFC operations, the outcome of the interest rate
review and application of said criteria. AFC's current interest rate to
farmers exceeds the current inflation rate of about 9% in order to cover
AFCs operating costs. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and AFC, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.07    All funds for the Project (including the IDA and UNDP financing) will
be reflected in GOK's three year (forward) and annual budgets and will be
channelled from Treasury to the relevant implementing Ministry/agency, in
accordance with existing GOK procedures. UNDP will channel its funds to each
implementing agency in accordance with arrangements acceptable to UNDP and
Government. About 70Z of the GOK counterpart contribution is for recurrent
expenses, particularly salaries and allowances. The remaining 30Z refers to
contributions for the other expenditure categories, excluding TA and training.
Therefore, GOK's counterpart funding, which is spread over six Ministries, is
relatively small in order to mirimize the budgetary burden on government.
Government waiver on the taxes and duties for imported vehicles and equipment
further reduces the project's budgetary requirements.
3.08    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
it will reflect the required subproject expenditures in the draft forward
budgets (beginning for the period 1989/90 - 1991/92) and in the annual budget
(beginning in 1989/90 for most subprojects, and 1988/89 revised budget
estimates for the smallholder and ranch lending, deposit taking, cooperative
maragement and Baringo subprojects). At negotiations, Government confirmed
that the MOF will waive the taxes and duties for project expenditures
(primarily for imported vehicles and equipment) incurred by each of the
subprojects, beginning no later than in the 1989/90 fiscal year.



- 18 -
3.09    A condition of disbursement of IDA funds for any subproject involving
UNDP funding will require that Government and UNDP finalize their financing
agreement; or that alternative financing arrangements or adjustments in
subproject design be completed in a form satisfactory to IDA.
C. Procurement
3.10    Procurement arrangements and amounts for the overall subproject are
summarized on Table 3.3. The figures in parenthesis indicate aggregate amounts
financed by IDA. Detailed procurement arrangements for each subproject will be
prepared separately by the executing agency concerned and will be included in
the subproject Implementation Report. Therefore, the amounts per subproject are
substantially lower than indicated in the table below.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT (IDA contribution in parenthesis)
PROCUREMENT METHOD AND DISBURSEMENT
Category of Expenditure                    Procurement Method
ICB     LCB     OTHER      N/A     TOTAL COST
-----  (US$ M including contingencies) ----_
1. Civil works               0.0       4.8     1.2     0.0       6.0
(0.0)    (4.3)   (1.1)   (0.0)    (5.4)
2. Plant and equipment       1.9       1.5     0.4     0.0       3.8
(1.5)    (1.2)   (0.3)   (0.0)    (3.0)
3. Vehicles                  2.2      0.4      0.1     0.0       2.7
(1.8)    (0.3)   (0.1)   (0.0)    (2.2)
4. Technical Assistance      0.0      0.0      3.6     0.0       3.6
(0.0)    (0.0)   (1.8)   (0.0)    (1.8)
5. Training                  0.0       0.0     3.3     1.4       4.7
(0.0)    (0.0)   (1.3)   (0.5)    (1.8)
6. Salaries and              0.0      0.0      0.0     3.1       3.1
Allowances               (0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)    (0.0)
7. Non-salary                0.0      0.0      0.0     6.2       6.2
operating costs          (0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)   (3.1)    (3.1)
8. Credit                    0.0       0.0     0.0     5.4       5.4
(0.0)    (0.0)   (0.0)   (3.5)    (3.5)
TOTAL                     4.1      6.7      8.6    16 1      35.5
(IDA)                    (3.3)    (5.8)   (4.6)   (7.1)   (20.8)
3.11    About 162 of IDA's Credit would be for goods procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), about 282 through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB), 22Z through other procurement methods. ICB thresholds will be
US$ 1,000,000 for civil works and US$ 100,000 for goods (i.e. plant/equipment
and vehicles). Because bid packages will be prepared separately for each
subproject, most of the packages will be below ICB threshold, hence the low
figure for ICB procurement of vehicles and equipment. No packages of civil
works contracts are expected to be above the ICB threshold. LCD will be the
preferred method of procurement for civil works contracts because the contract
values will be small and because works will be scattered geographically and
spread over time. Procurement for 34% of the remaining IDA Credit funds falls



- 19 -
under a category where no prescribable procurement method will be applicable
e.g. for salaries and staff costs, training and operating costs which would be
incurred in accordance with implementing agency's financial and other
operational procedures which are acceptable to IDA. Bidding packages would be
prepared by each implementing agency consistent with annual workplans and
budgetary provisions. In bidding on ICB procurement, preference for local
manufacturers will be allowed in accordance with IDA Procurement guidelines.
Contracts involving expenditures in excess of US$ 250,000 and US$ 50,000
equivalent for civil works and goods respectively, would be submitted to IDA
for prior review.
3.12    Recently IDA reviewed GOK procurement procedures and found them
generally acceptable, except for 10% domestic preference under district focus
strategy given to district based suppliers and contractors; in the past GOK
has waived this preference for IDA funded projects in order to conform to
IDA's condition of acceptability of local procedures. District focus strategy
preference, will therefore, not be applied for procurement under RSDP.
3.13    Procurement arrangements for parastatal organizations (i.e. AFC  and
Kerio Valley Development Authority, KVDA) have been reviewed, and are in
conformity with GOK procurement procedures. The procedures emphazise
competitive bidding, except that they are not explicit on procedures regarding
(i) advertising; (ii) submission and opening of bids; (iii) criteria for
evaluation of bids; and (iv) criteria for award of contracts. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the executing
agencies will follow IDA procurement guidelines for the procurement of goods
and services, including consultants, funded from the Credit. It is understood
that whenever the IDA Credit agreement allows use of LCB, the following
procedures will be followed:
(i)   Advertisement must be in at least one local newspaper of
nationwide circulation allowing bidders adequate time, normally
less than 30 days, to obtain bidding documents, prepare and
submit bids; announcement should also indicate that foreign
bidders, if interested, can participate;
(ii)  Prequalification will be allowed where experience of bidders is
required;
(iii) Evaluation and award criteria will be explicitly specified in
all bidding documents. Award criteria will be always "award to
the lowest evaluated bidder";
(iv)        Domestic preferences will not be applicable.
(v)         Public bid opening for all contracts; and
(vi)        Price negotiations will not be allowed after opening of
bids before award of contract.



- 20 -
D. Disbursement
3.14          Proceeds of the IDA Credit will be disbursed as follows (see
Annex 3, Tables 2 and 3 for further details):
Amount of the I/   Percentage of
Credit Allocated    Expenditures
Category                                    (USt million)      to be Financed
1.  Civil works                               4.3               90%
2.  Vehicles and                                         100% of foreign
equipment                                 4.0         60% of local
3. Technical Assistance
and Training                              2.5            100%
4.  Non-salary Operating Costs                3.0             50% 2/
3.  Credit                                    3.0             70%
6.  Unallocated                               4.0
TOTAL                                    20.8
3.15    In order to limit the submission of application in small amounts,
application thresholds of US$20,000 will be established for reimbursement and
for direct payment. Disbursements for vehicles, machinery, equipment and
civil works would be fully documented, except for contracts less than US$
20,000 equivalent. Disbursements for operating costs, local training costs,
agricultural credit subloans and for contracts less than US$ 20,000 will be
against statements of expenditure (SOEs). For the AFC, the SOEs would be
certified by the General Manager and retained for inspection by IDA review
missions. The IDA Credit incleides up to US$ 1.9 million for retroactive
financing on agreed subprojects and their expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1988 (para. 3.05).
3.16    The standard disbursement profile for agricultural projects ini the
Eastern Africa Department is 9.5 years. Disbursements from the Credit are
expected to be over 5.5 years, faster than the profile, because: (i) a
significant proportion of the expenditures(about 65%) are part of cngoing
programs where the implementation arrangements and staffing are already
eatablished and working and where the programs are expected to phase out
within 2-4 years; in the case of the agricultural credit, which comprises
about 15% of the IDA Credit, these funds will be part of AFC's ongoing lending
operations in selected branches, but where the approaches to lending and
supervision will be significantly improved; (ii) for all subprojects, prior to
V/      Includes US$ 660,000 provided by the IDA-financed sub-project
preparation facility (PPF) approved for the Baringo (Phase 2)
sub-project.
2.11    Percentage has been set such that the IDA Credit will cover the
estimated incremental non-salary expenses on a declining basis.
However, in order to facilitate disbursements across the numerous
subprojects, a fixed percentage has been established for the overall
project.



- 21 -
project start-up, the executing agency for each subproject will be finalizing a
detailed implementation report(IR), based on a draft prepared prior to
negotiations with IDA; this detailed planning prior to launching each subproject
will reduce significantly the normal delays usually experienced at project
start-up; and (iii) Treasury is introducing measures to speed-up the
disbursements of donor-supported projects. In reference to the proposed project,
Treasury has made arrangements in the External Resources Division (ERD), which
will be coordinating the project's disbursements activities, to help ensure
disbursements from the IDA Credit and UNDP will be made shortly after the
subproject expenditures are incurred. A special account is not proposed for
this project because currently, special accounts are not being used on Bank
Group supported projects in Kerya; and the large number of implementing agencies
in the project does not lend itself to a special account, should such accounts
be established in Kenya. The project completion date is expected to be June 30,
1993; closing date is December 31, 1993.
3.17    Conditions of disbursement of Credit funds will require for any given
subprojectt (i) completion of the financing agreement between GOK and UNDP, or
alternative financing arrangements and/or adjustments in subproject design
satisfactory to IDA; (ii) comp,sztion of the Implementation Report satisfactory
to IDA and UNDP (if applicable), and which should include satisfactory
subproject components, implementation arrangements, performance indicators for
monitoring and evaluation activities and related arrangements, terms of
reference for consultants and training plan; and (iii) appointment of a
subproject coordinator with suitable qualifications and experience.
3.18    In the event implementation of a given subproject deviates significantly
from the provisions in the implementation report as agreed with IDA,
disbursements of Credit funds for this subproject will be suspended until
subproject performance is satisfactory to IDA. Moreover, if Credit funds for an
approved subproject are not used for a period of about six months, the Project
Review Committee may reallocate such funds to arother approved subproject and/or
to the unallocated category.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.19    Project. accounts and audits would be carried out for each subproject by
the executing Ministry/agency in accordance with GOK procedures, which are
satisfactory to IDA. Each of these implementing Ministries and agencies would
forward copies of documentation to the ERD of Treasury, which would be
responsible for consolidating the overall project accounts. The latter would
comprise a record of drawings on the Credit, copies of all disbursement requests
and underlying documentation. These records and accounts would be updated
regularly, with quarterly statements of transactions and balances prepared and
forwarded to IDA.
3.20    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOK that: (i) these
records, accounts and statements, including the SOEs, will be maintained and
would be audited annually by the Auditor General; (ii) the accounts and the
audit report, which will be in the form of the Statement of Appropriation
Accounts,/will be submitted to IDA not later than nine months following the
end of each fiscal year; and (iii) that AFC accounts will be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that the accounts and auditor's
report will be submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the fiscal
year.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPEEMENTATION
A. Overall Arrangements
4.01    Overview.  The project's implementation arrangements have been
designed to simplify execution, reduce to a minimum coordination requirements,
and to use existing structures and personnel to carryout each subproject.
Most of the subprojects would be implemented by one line Ministry/agency,
which would use its existing institutional structure and arrangements to
carryout the specific project activities. Morever, all subprojects will be
implamented with the assistance of the District officers concerned and in
consultation with the District administration, in accordance with GOK's
district-focus development policy. The District administration officials have
expressed support for each of the subprojects and the broad arrangements and
role for their participation have been agreed in principle. Finally, the
project provides for overall management and coordination arrangements in order
to ensure quick disbursements of the IDA and UNDP funds and achieve the
strategic objectives of the project. The paragraphs below describe each of
these arrangements.
4.02    ImDlementation of SubDrojects.  In total there are seven executing
Ministries/agencies, reflecting Government's current allocation of functional
responsibilities within the rural sector. Each of the subprojects is
self-contained within one Ministry/agency, with the exception of Baringo,
which involves coordination of activities by several Ministries. In order to
help ensure smooth implementation on a day-to-day basis, each executing
Ministry will designate a subproject coordinator. Also, each Ministry would
use its existing structure to review progress and resolve any bottlenecks
which arise. In most subprojects, no additional staff would need to be
recruited, since the initiatives are limited in scope and comprise a
relatively small part of the Ministry's activities. Where some staff needs to
be recruited, such as in the Livestock Marketing, it would be limited and
largely the result of current unfilled posts.
4.03    Overall Project Management and Coordination.  Since implementation
arrangements for each subproject would be handled by the executing Ministry or
agency, the project will not require the establishment of a coordinating or
project unit. To help ensure smooth implementation of the overall project and
timely utilization of the IDA Credit funds and to derive the project's
strategic benefits in the follow-up phases, the project's organizational
arrangements will be enhanced in three aspects: (a) the Project Review
Committee for decision-making; (b) the Ministry of Planning and National
Development (MPND) for overall coordination; and (c) the External Resources
Division (ERD) of MOF for administrative and disbursement matters.
4.04    First, the RSD Project Review Committee (PRC), will have the main
functions of: (i) managing the unallocated funds for unidentified and/or
on-going subprojects, based on criteria outlined in para. 2.06; and (ii)
periodically reviewing progress in implementation of subprojects with a view
to determining the merits of expansion. Government intends to establish the
PRC no later than February 1, 1989 (but in any case prior to credit effective-
ness), and it will be comprised of senior officers from the "core" participating
Ministries: Finance, Planning and National Development, Agriculture,
Livestoc-c. Development, Energy, Cooperative Development, and Tourism and
Wildlife. The PRC will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MOF.
Also, depending on the nature of the subproject being reviewed, a



- 23 -
representative from the proposing entity and the relevant Ministry/agency,
NGO, University or private sector will be invited to participate in the PRC
meeting. This broadened representation in the PRC will enhance the generation
and review of promising proposals. If and when necessary, the relevant
Permanent Secretary (PS) will be called upon to address and resolve policy
and/or coordination issues.
4.05    Second, the Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND), will
assist the PRC through providing overall coordination for the project,
focusing on the project's developmental aspects. Prior to project start-up
during 1988/89, the MPND will designate the relevant Department(s) to help
carry out the coordination role. The main functions will be:
(a)    to provide overall guidance to the subproject activities from
the perspective of sectoral planning and strategy, based on the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities supported
under the project. It is also expected that MPND, in close
coordination with MOF, will help ensure adequate budgetary
allocations for the subprojects, based on their strategic
priority;
(b)    to serve as the Secretariat of RSD PRC, and help to ensure that
any additional subprojects supported by the project will
conform with the agreed criteria outlined in para 2.06; and
(c)    to help determine the justification for expanding the
investment activities, based on the M&E results generated from
each subproject, and on GOK's sectoral strategies and policies.
MPND's role will not involve day to day implementation or coordination
activities, which will be handled entirely by the implementing agency
concerned as outlined in para. 4.02. This overall coordination and
facilitating role will be consistent with and reinforced by the proposed
subproject on the M&E of agricultural strategies. Therefore, the thrust of
the role of the MPND is to help implement the project's investment mechanism
and to provide sectoral planning and policy guidance in order to help ensure
that the implementation experieiice will generate useful results for future
planning and investment activities, particularly given that all subprojects
offer the potential of being expanded.
4.06    Third, the ERD will compile and aggregate from each executing agency
the various progress reports, subproject accounts,/withdrawal applications for
IDA and UNDP disbursements, and supporting documentation.
B. Subprolect Implementation Arrangements
4.07    Implementation arrangements for each subproject are based on the
principles outlined in para 4.01 and are summarized below (further details are
provided in the executive summaries for each subproject, presented in Annex 1).
4.08    The three subprojects involving rural credit and savinRs (smallholder
and ranch lending, and deposit-taking) will be implemented by the AFC through
its participating branch offices and Headquarters, which provide overall
coordination. Attempts will be made to involve a suitable Kenya-based NGO in
the implementation of the project's group lending activities supported by the



- 24 -
sm4ll-holder subproject, which will include provision of credit to farmer
groups. If such a NGO participates, the involvement will be in accordance
with arrangements acceptable to the Government, AFC and IDA.
4.09    The livestock marketing subproject will be implemented by the Ministrv
of Livestock Development (MOLD) through its field offices in the project area
(Narok and Kajiado districts) and its Headquarter-based Livestock Marketing
Division (LMD), which will provide overall coordination and introduce
progressively the project-supported Livestock Marketing Information System in
other Districts. A subproject coordinator has already been appointed. The
LMD has been understaffed, and under the project some 2-3 additional staff
would be recruited to fill existing posts, In addition, the District
Development Committees (DDCs), together with private traders in the project
area, will assist in selected project activities (e.g. establishment and
management of the auction). For the past three years, an NGO has been imple-
menting a self-help project (People's Masai Project) in Narok and Kajiado
districts. Given that this NGO is working with many of the expected beneficiaries,
it would collaborate in the implementation of the subproject activities.
4.10    The cooperative management subproject will be implemented by the
Ministry of Cooverative Development (MOCD) initially in seven districts, which
were included in the first phase program. The day-to-day execution will be
through MOCD district personnel under the overall responsibility of the
District Cooperative Officer (DCO). He will appoint one of his/her
cooperative officers to coordinate and supervise project activities. Overall
project coordination will be/provided by MOCD Headquarters, the Projects and
Management Division, which already has appointed a full-time project
coordinator. He will help ensure consistency in approach and implementation
arrangements amongst the participating Districts.
4.11    The Ministry of Planning and National Development will continue to
coordinate the implementation of the Baringo(Phase 2) subproject. The
execution of the Barinao (Phase 2) subproject activities would be carried out
at the District level by the participating functional Ministries of
Agriculture, Livestock Development, Water Development, Land Settlement, under
the overall responsibility of the District Development Committee (DDC). The
subproject coordinator designated by the Ministry of Planning and National
Development, on behalf of the DDC, will continue to provide day-to-day
coordination of activities at the field level.
4.12    The Suam River Catchment subRrolect will be executed by the Kerio
Valley Development Authority (KVDA), an autonomous agency of the Ministry of
Energy, which has an institutional mandate to carryout the project actions.
The KVDA will also involve the relevant West Pokot DDC and its officers, who
will emphasize securing the participation of the beneficiaries in the planning
and execution phases. KVDA will appoint a subproject coordinator.
4.13    The Wildlife Development and Conservation subprolect will be
implemented by the Department of Wildlife Conservation and Management, of the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife. Day-to-day coordination will be carried out
by a subproject coordinator, supported by a project task force comprised of
the relevant officials from the Ministry. This task force will coordinate the
participation of xarious agencies, national park and reserve staff and county
councils from the four subproject areas and the private individuals or groups
from adjacent areas.



- 25 -
4.14    The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), through its Crop Development
Division, will have overall responsibility for implementing the Rural
Oil-Protein Production and Processing subDrolect. However, given the
integrated nature of the interventions, there will be a number of
collaborating executing agencies and divisions which will provide the needed
expertise for each of the project's main components of research and extension,
and rural processing technology. Day-to-day coordination will be carried out
by a subproject coordinator in the Crop Development Division.
4.15    The Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Strategies and Policies
subDroject will be executed and coordinated by the Ministry of Planning and
National Development (MPND), the Sector Planning Department (SPD). The
implementation of the monitoring activities of each subproject and
agricultural strategies and policies will be carried out by the
various/sectoral line Ministries and participating DDCs. In addition, it is
anticipated that at least one suitable local institution (i.e. University of
Nairobi and/or Egerton University) will be contracted by the MPND/SPD to
it in carrying out the impact evaluation of various subprojects and
of selected agricultural policies and programs.
4.16    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the
implementation and coordination arrangements for the project will be in
accordance with paras 4.01-4.15, including the following main features: (i)
the implementing Ministry/Agency for each of the approved subprojects will
designate and maintain a senior officer with suitable qualifications and
experience to be the subproject coordinator; this appointment will also be a
condition of disbursement of IDA funds for a particular subproject (para.
3.17); (ii) a RSD PRC, under the chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary MOF,
will be established to carry out the overall management and decision-making
functions outlined in para 2.10; and will be comprised of the representatives
indicated in para 4.04.  The establishment of the PRC is a condition of credit
effectiveness; (iii) the MPND, will provide overall coordination for the
project, focussing on the development aspects of the project; for this
purpose, a senior officer in the MPND will be designated to assist the
Permanent Secretary MPND in thts coordination role; and (iv) the ERD will be
responsible for compiling the subproject reports, accounts and withdrawal
applications for disbursements by IDA and UNDP. The Government intends to
appoint the senior coordination officers indicated under items (i) and Iii) no
later than February 1, 1989 in order to fit with the budgetary cycle and
ensure timely start-up of the subprojects. In four of the subprojects,
coordinators have already been appointed. GOK also intends to establish the
PRC no later than February 1, 1989.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17    The M&E activities will be carefully designed to allow modification,
if necessary, of the subprojects during tl;e course of implementation and to
document both success and failure of project initiatives. Each subproject
will have its own arrangements for monitoring in order to assess and adjust
the day-to-day implementation progress. The executing agency concerned would
prepare bi-annual progress reports and use them as the basis for adjusting the
implementation programs and for preparing the annual work plans prior to each
annual budgetary cycle. Such progress reports would be forwarded to the PRC,
ERD, IDA and UNDP. In order to facilitate this reporting from the outset,
each subproject Implementation Report will include a monitoring and evaluation



- 26 -
pLa.n, indicating clearly the main performance and evaluation indicators.
These performance indicators will generate quantitative (i.e. including
economic rates of return for selected subproject components, where applicable,
recovery rates, net financial returns) and qualitative information which/will
indicate whether the innovative investments merit expansion, continued testing
or stoppage. The Executive Summaries (para on justification/benefits) for
each subproject (Annex 1) outline some of the more important performance
indicators, which will be further developed and operationalized in the
subproject implementation report.
4.18    Evaluation Arrangements.  The evaluation arrangements for each
subproject outlined in the subproject implementation report will include the
following: key indicators to be measured, timing and method of measurement;
target levels of achievement for the various indicators; criteria for judging
success or failure; institutional arrangements for evaluation; alternative
initiatives or variants on the concept which would be tested in the event of
failure of the original concept. The evaluation of the successes or failures
of subproject activities will be the responsibility of MPND, in consultation
with the main executing agency concerned. As indicated in para. 4.14, the
ESPD will contract most of the evaluation work to a suitable local university,
which should be selected during the first 1-2 years of the project. It is
understood that this entity will subcontract as necessary in order to secure
the needed expertise for the wide range of subprojects. This contracted
evaluation activity is necessary, given the need for an independent evaluation
and the current limited institutional capacity and skills in the MPND to
carryout this type of impact analyses. Where this evaluation capacity exists,
the MPND, in close collaboration with the executing agency will take the
primary responsibility. The evaluation plan will be included the
Implementation Report prepared for each subproject. Completion of the
monitoring plan and the evaluation plan, including clear performance
indicators for assessing success or failure, satisfactory to IDA should be
included in the Implementation Report for each subproject.
4.19    Mid-term Review.  In addition to the periodic reviews of project
implementation, there will be a mid-term progress review and evaluation for
each subproject. This review will be done on a joint basis with the executing
agencies of GOK, UNDP and IDA. The suitable arrangements and timing of the
review of each subproject will be worked out through the PRC, in close
consultation with each executing agency. It is anticipated that the bi-annual
progress reports on the M&E activities described above will form the basis for
the mid-term review. The findings of the review will provide the basis for
any adjustments in the design of the subprojects and the utilization of the
remaining project funds, in the event they had not been committed to other
unidentified subprojects. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from
Government that a joint mid-term review with the above objective will be
carried out for each subproject at a time to be mutually agreed.
4.20    Project Comoletion Report.  The findings of the M&E activities for
each subproject will provide the basis for Government's preparation of the
Project Completion Report (PCR). This PCR should consolidate and assess the
findings and lessons learned from each subproject as well as the overall
project concept, including the merits of expanding the subprojects and further
institutionalizing the planning mechanisms introduced by the Project. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the MPND will
arrange to prepare and submit to IDA a PCR no later than 6 months after the
closing date (or by June 30, 1994).



- 27 -
D. Technical Assistance and Trainina
4.21    Given the innovative nature of the project, there will be a need for a
minimum level of technical assistance (TA) inputs to assist in the effective
implementation of various subprojects. The project will provide about 560
man-months of short-teim consultancy inputs, which is equivalent to about 1
man-year per subproject and per year. These inputs also include the
contractual services of a suitable local institution to carry out the impact
evaluation of the subprojects (para. 4.18). It is anticipated that the
consultants will include both qualified locally and externally recruited
persons. The Executive Summaries for each subproject outline the broad terms
of reference (TOR) for these inputs; the implementation report will include a
detailed TOR. A major part of this input will provide on-the-job training to
the staff from the executing agencies. It is anticipated that most of the TA
will be provided by qualified nationals and local institutions, such as the
University, for assisting in the implementation of the impact evaluation
activities. In this manner, the project will also strengthen the
institutional capacities of local institutions and their linkages with
Government. The project's training activities will concentrate on short-term
practical and on-the-job training to strengthen the capacity of the executing
agencies to carryout the project activities. There will be some limited
degree training, some of which would be ovezseas at suitable institutions.
Since the training plans will be a part of the draft Implementation Report,
IDA will review the plan for each subproject.
4.22    During negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOK that the
employment of consultants and their TOR and qualifications will be on terms
acceptable to IDA. It is understood that the consultancy inputs for each
subproject will emphasize on-the-job training and institutional strengthening
of the participating Ministries/agencies in order to sustain the project
investments, particularly in the expanded phase. Accordingly. the final terms
of reference for each consultant should incorporate these principles.
E. ODerational Plan of Action
4.23    Given the diverse nature and phasing of activities under each
subproject, an operational plan of action (POA) has been prepared to indicate
the key actions and target dates for the project and each subproject (Annex
4). Emphasis is placed on the first year in order to help ensure timely
start-up and disbursements of Credit funds. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained from Government and the participating Ministries and agencies that
the POA will be followed, and later amendments, if necessary, will be made
following review with IDA and UNDP every year no later than February 1,
beginning in 1989.



- 28 -
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISMS
A. Overview of Benefits and Justification
5.01      The project's main immediate benefit and justification is that it
offers a low cost and improved programmatic investment mechinism for devising
and testing potentially effective approaches to sustained agrlcultural growth
through improved services and technologies. The project's Institutional
benefits are to strengthen Government's capacity to generate and maintain a
strategic overview of the sector and to translate this assessment into
priority Investments which could accelerate agricultural growth, particularly
for the direct benefit of smallholders.
5.02      The identified subprojects have a common feature of implementing
promising technical and/or organizational approaches to removing constraints
to potential sources of rural growth. Knowledge about how to make the
services and investments work effectively and viably is limited, so that they
need to be developed carefully through the field-oriented approach proposed in
the project.   The interventions, although limited in scope during the initial
phase, are expected to generate increased incomes and other tangible benefits
to the rural economy and population, particularly smallholders. The nature of
these benefits, particularly in the expanded phase of each subproject, if
proven successful, are highlighted below. The project's M&E activities will
provide a more comprehensive and quantitative assessment of the actual and
potential benefits, if replicated.
Mi)       Smallholder and Ranch Lending:  Strengthened institutional capacity
of the AFC to deliver rural credit to an increased proportion of
smallholders and to ranches, with improved recovery rates; increased
agricultural productivity and rural incomes of the benefitting
farmers; the financial viability of two group ranches. This
experience is expected to contribute to the design and
implementation of a proposed national credit project.
(ii)      DeRosit-takin:  Establishment of suitable institutional
arrangements and financially viable mechanisms which will promote
rural savings mobilization, and eventually contribute toward the
financial viability of AFC;
(iii)     Livestock Marketini:  Increased marketed offtake of cattle and that
of small stock; reduced cost of livestock production and marketing,
and hence improved marketing efficiency; higher returns to prices;
producers due to improved transparency in livestock prices;;
strengthening of the MOLD's institutional capacity to provide
effective livestock marketing services in the context
of/Government's decision to decontrol beef prices. The approaches
developed under the subproejct, if successful, are expected to be
expanded on a national scale, with suitable adjustments;
(iv)      CooDerative Manaaement ImDrovement:  A strengthened capacity and
approach of MOCD to provide effective support services to
cooperative societies and unions, which market nearly 60X of the
value of cash crops; an effective approach to improving the
management of the participating cooperative societies, which is
expected to result in more timely crop payments to members, improved
and timely availabilitY of key inputs such as fertilizer and credit.
The results of the subproject are expected to provide the basis for
an expanded national program;



- 29 -
(v)      Barinao (Phase 2):  Increased livestock and crop
productivity, resulting in improved food security and higher incomes
to farmers and livestock owners; provision of improved rural
services based on resource planning involving the beneffiting
farmers would enhance the likelihood of more rapid adoption of
improved technologies for semi-arid areas. This experience is
expected to useful inputs to the design and implementation of a
national ASAL program under preparation;
(vi)      Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation SubDroject.  Increased livestock
and agricultural productivity of the area through low-cost measures
which restore land productivity, resulting in a more stable and
higher living standard for approximately 2000 rural inhabitants; an
expanded phase of the project would eventually extend the productive
span of the Turkwel Gorge power project by reducing sedimentation of
the reservoir;
(vii)     Wildlife Development and Conservation:
o        Increased economic benefits from wildlife and tourism
through: sustaining current tourism revenues that otherwise
might decline with deterioration of wildlife resources and
park facilities; expanding productive activities at
additional game reserve sites on county council or private
land; and reducing private costs from wildlife damage;
o        more equitable distribution of economic benefits of
wildlife through increasing benefits to rural residents who
bear costs of supporting wildlife;
o        strengthened conservation of wildlife and their/habitats
through improved park/reserve management and by increased
incentives to rural residents to protect wildlife.
(viii)    Rural Oil-Protein Production and Processing Suborolect:  If proven
successful and economically viable, an expanded program will
generate the following important benefits: reduce the requirements
of foreign exchange for the importation of edible oils and protein
cake; generate rural employment by increasing the area cultivated
with oilerops and intensification of production; increase farm
incomes by reducing their cash outlays to purchase edible oils and
protein cakes;
(ix)      Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Strategies:
o        the reduction in implementation delays in both projects and
policy measures falling under agricultural and rural
development strategies, which should result from an
effective implementation monitoring system;
o        substantial improvement over time in the process of policy
formulation for agricultural and rural development,
resulting from the improved feedback and evaluation of
policies and strategies;



- 30 -
o        strengthening the institutional capacity to monitor and
evaluate agricultural strategies and policies, and
therefore, enhancing the prospects of sustained
agricultural reforms and growth.
B. Impact on Women
5.03      An important beneficiary group of the project will be women, who
play a major role in promoting Kenya's agricultural development. More
specifically, the smallholder lending subproject aims to work out feasible
approaches to providing group credit to women farmers. Currently, most do not
have access to other sources of institutional credit, given security
requirements. The rural processing of oilseeds at the village level aims to
provide rural women with a low cost source of vegetable oil for cooking
needs. Other subprojects which contribute to increased agricultural
productivity and rural incomes will also benefit directly the affected female
population. To the extent these subprojects are expanded, a substantial
number of rural women eventually stand to benefit from these investments.
C. Environmental ImRact
5.04      The project will contribute to an improved environment in the
affected rural areas through testing the effectiveness of specific measures
supported by the following suoprojects: Baringo (Phase 2); Suam River
Catcbment Rehabilitation; and Wildlife Conservation. While these
environmental benefits are outlined in para 5.02 and in the subproject
Executive Summaries (Annex 1), the following features are highlighted below,
if the investments prove successful. The Baringo subproject will support
range reclamation and soil and water conservation works which will help
restore crop and livestock productivity on a sustainable basis. The Suam
Rehabilitation subproject will also provide low cost physical structures and
improved management practices by the local inhabitants which will help reverse
the serious soil erosion and sedimentation in the catchment area. The
Wildlife Conservation subproject aims to test innovative measures which could:
reduce the agricultural losses from damage caused by wildlife in areas
adjacent to game parks; and improve the conservation of wildlife and their
habitats on a sustainable basis.
D. Risks
5.05      The project's major risks vary according to subproject, but
generally involve two aspects. First, some of the subprojects may not lead to
viable solutions or approaches or may be of limited replicability. Second,
some of the executing agencies have limited institutional capacity to carryout
and, where necessary, coordinate, the innovative activities proposed.
5.06      The proposed project has designed specific measures to minimize the
adverse effect of these risks. For the first risk, the project includes
measures to help: (i) ensure the sound selection and design of strategic
subprojects through the careful application of sound pre-determined criteria
as outlined in para 2.06, and the establishment of a review mechanism through
the RSD PRC; (ii) firm up project design and implementation arrangements prior
to start-up through the preparation of satisfactory implementation reports(IR)
for each subproject, prepared by the implementing agency; a condition of
disbursement of IDA and UNDP funds is a satisfactory IR; (iii) reduce the



- 31 -
scope and cost of subproject interventions, but which are sufficient to
determine the merits of replication and yet generate tangible benefits; For
the second risk, the project includes measures to: (i) reduce and simplify the
coordination requirements of the project through the design of subprojects
which will be implemented primarily by a single line agency; and (ii) provide
essential technical assistance and training, with an emphasis of on-the-job
training of staff from the implementing agencies; and (iii) emphasize a strong
M&E system and arrangements, including a mid-term joint review of each
subproject.



- 32 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations, the following assuranaes were obtained
from Government and its Ministries/agencies concerned:
(i)      subprojects funded under the project, including
unidentified subprojects, will conform to the agreed
criteria outlined in para. 2.06; any changes in the
criteria will be reviewed and agreed with IDA (paras. 2.07
and 2.11);
(ii)     proposals for using unallocated funds for additional
subprojects and/or the approved subprojects will be
reviewed and approved by the Project Review Committee (PRC)
and IDA (para. 2.11);
(iii)    GOK: (a) will ensure that AFC maintains positive real
interest rates; and (b) within the context of its periodic
review of interest rates for its lending institutions, by
June 30 of each year commencing June 30, 1989, review AFC'a
interest rates to ensure that the rates are: positive in
real terms; provide AFC with an adequate spread over its
operations and lending risks; and are consistent with
market rates (para. 3.06);
(iv)     GOK and the participating Ministries will make adequate
budgetary provisions to the agreed subprojects in the
forward budget (beginning for the period 1989/90 - 1991/92)
and annual budget estimates (beginning in 1989/90) (para
3.08);
(v)      The executing agencies will follow IDA procurement
guidelines for the procurement of goods and services funded
from the Credit (para. 3.13);
(vi)     Each of the executing Ministries/agencies will keep
separate project accounts which will be audited annually by
the Auditor General; the AFC subproject accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and all
subproject accounts and auditor reports will be submitted
to IDA not later than nine months following the end of each
fiscal year (para. 3.20).
(vii)    The MPND will provide overall coordination for the project,
focussing on its development aspects. For this purpose, a
suitably qualified senior officer will be designated to
assist in carrying out the coordination functions. In
addition, the implementing Ministry/Agency for each of the
approved subprojects will designate and maintain a senior
officer, with suitable qualifications and/experience, to be
the subproject coordinator (para. 4.16);
(viii)   A joint mid-term review will be carried out for each
subproject at a time to be mutually agreed between
Government and IDA and UNDP (para. 4.19);



- 33 -
(ix)     A Project Completioii Report (PCR) will be prepared by the
MPND and submitted to IDA no later than 6 months after the
closine date of the Credit (para. 4.20);
(x)      The employment of consultants and their terms of reference
and qualifications will be on terms acceptable to IDA (para
4.22);
(xi)     A schedule indicated in the Project's Plan of Action will
be followed, and later amendments, if necessary, will be
made following review with IDA and UNDP every year no later
than February 1, beginning in 1989 (para. 4.23).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:
(i)      execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOK and
AFC, satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.06);
(ii)     establishment of the Project Review Committee (PRC), with
the objectives and composition indicated in paras. 2.10 and
4.04, respectively (para. 4.16).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement of Credit funds will require for any
given subproject (para. 3.17):
M)       for subprojects cofinanced with UNDP, completion of the
financing agreement between GOK and UNDP, or alternative
financing arrangements or adjustments in subproject design
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.09);
(ii)     completion of the Implementation Report, including a M&E
plan with clear performance indicators, satisfactory to IDA
and UNDP (paras. 3.17 and 4.17);
(iii)    designation of subproject coordinators with suitable
qualifications and experience (para 4.16).
Recommendation
6.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
is suitable for a credit of SDR 15.5 million (US$20.8 million equivalent) to
the Government of Kenya on standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



- 34 -
Akex 1
Chat 1
KMYA
URAL SERVI  DESD;GN   =T
Application of Qiterla to  dentifi Suibpojts
________                      Q~~~~~~(iteria
Idaetified     I SttegC  iprove        l  nvtl  PmilDtea |       tary IDThiuentatixi 1/
9mint                     12 l21d  I (U) I Ip rovei 1r8 ta8                 a Of
I          lrld/or      I  Sine  I Resoue              I prejetion)
1          I0~anizatioi F(iUpto   I  Use    I          I
!__________    _A_ran   1    3.5n)  I                  ! _
1.  Uholder   
LTeing                                  35 I  13  1                      *
2. Rana-'---                                      I -       I          _ _r
Tendi,t                       /         1.6   1 Z        | ,   
2.!nm'       I          I      .     oI   ,,              I    ,,I 
3.,  , sit     i          I eI                   TI t
Idng   I                     V        1i.OIIVI    *
:                                           ___ I _ _ _ I _ _         _ _
4.LItvstockl                                              F
vmaretingj    L/J                    12.01          V        '1 
Coopal  Tve  I
=T)t~~                     1-  1
6.Barizw    I                          34 ,    1                         *
(Hase 2)   I    V            l4'
7.Sn          T                        11 
Rehab.      I      I                 |  3.3  
&Wildtif e                            11FI
Qmevaticam   vI    V    13.3                        VI   *
9.Oilseed  1           1             1    3 .0 1         F  3
10. M& Eoff
StmegLes               |     /          3.3_1 t           
The     t.si xtiz8 for the aibpjet execit  suumy (for tle initial rvie  by
the RtC ana  DA) and the  ep1tatix1 Report (for revis by MA) are indicated In
Amex IV, ktadumnt 1.
*   Infdiates diuct   .          Report has bem prelred and is being upxdate and
expsd  for revi  by ]J and MMD.
**    dcates dmft                Report Is currently urie preparatim  by the inplemeHting
Mtnistry/Aga.y



- 35 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
RURAL CREDIT SUB-PROJECTI/
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.     INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE
1.     Increasing the flow and effectiveness of agricultural credit to a
large proportion of Kenya's two million smallholder farmers is important for
accelerating the uptake of improved technologies, thus fostering increased
agricultural growth and rural incomes. Efforts to channel credit funds and
to increase AFC's coverage have been only partially successful as only about
5% of the farmer population receive credit from AFC and recovery rates are
low (an average of 60% over the period of 1984-87). Major reasons in the
past for this poor performance were poor management, deficient credit
delivery system (including lack of supervision and well defined policies)
resulting in an overall credit funds shortage, credit rationing
concentrating on "better" clients as well as factor's outside of the
Agency's control.
2.     Starting in 1986, AFC has made significant progress in overcoming its
managerial and institutional constraints, improving its financial viability,
working out a program to restructure its operations and re-orienting its
operations toward smallholders.  The limited experience gathered from the
implementation of the Improved Credit Management Project in North Rift and
the smallholder lending program, which were part of the IDA-financed AFC IV
project, have helped generate an innovative and effective approach to
increased lenditRg to smallholders and improved loan supervision and recovery
levels. Also, as part of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
(ASAO), AFC's Board of Directors recently approved a plan to restructure
AFC's operations, including a proposal to convert it into a deposit-taking
institution.
3.     Notwithstanding these measures, it is still too early to assess the
impact. In particular, the managerial and loan processing changes
introduced under the Credit Management Project initiative have been in place
for only one year representing one season lending cycle. Thus, only a
qualitative assessment of performance can be made at this stage, and further
monitoring, particularly of recoveries, is required to ensure a viable
approach to smallholders lending. It is estimated that an additional two
years would be required for this, as well as to assess the impact and
requirements of expanding the revised procedures to the rest of AFC's branch
offices. This experience would be an essential input in the preparation of
a follow-up rural credit project.
1/    Includes three subprojects or components: Smallholder Lending;
Ranch Lending; and Deposit-taking.



- 36 -
II.    THE SUBPROJECT
4.     Obiectives:  Major objectives of the subproject are to assist AFC in:
improving its credit delivery system; increasing coverage and facilitating access
of smallholders to institutional credit; and, starting up deposit taking
activities to foster rural savings mobilization. For this three purposes, the
project will support measures to: (i) increase emphasis, coverage and share of
credit resources allocated to smallholders; (ii) enhance linkages between credit
and extension systems; (iii) strengthen the organization and improve operational
efficiency through improvements in lending policies and procedures, information
system capabilities, and operational and sub loan supervision procedures; and
(iv) establish effective mechanisms to foster savings mobilization.
5.     Components: The sub-project would provide resources and technical support
for the following components:
(a)   Smallholder Lending Component (SHC):   to consolidate experience
gained under implementation of the on-going North Rift smallholder
credit lending program; particular attention will be given to
testing improved approaches to group lending, including women
groups, and strengthening credit extension linkages.
(b)   Ranch Lending:  to change AFC's approach to ranch development, and
to establish improved management and sub-loan supervision procedures
for four company ranches; and to finance incremental operational
expenditures associated with the implementation and monitoring and
evaluation of the component.
(c)   Deposit Taking:   to test financial, management and operational
policies and procedures in support of AFC's program to work towards
financial viability by mobilizing of rural savings and/or other
sources of funds through the implementation of deposit taking
activities.   Financial resources will be provided to develop
institutional aspects and to assist the conversion of about five
branch offices to deposit taking.
(d)   Institutional Support to assist in improving lending procedures,
operational planning and programming, project preparation, and
supervision of investments. Improvements of in-house capabilities
would be through implementation of comprehensive training programs
whilst credit services at the field level would be upgraded through
strengthening of extension/credit linkages. Short tern technical
assistance and resources for on-the-job training to assist selected
AFC branch offices to take a more effective role in reaching
smallholders.    This would include  the design and testing of
group/collective lending procedures which would widen AFC coverage
and facilitate access by smallholders, including women, to the
institutional credit system.
6.     Key Features: The main features of the subproject will include the design
and implementation of measures to: improve supervision and recovery procedures
for lending to smallholders; initiate group lending procedures to reach
smallholders without adequate collateral; initiate AFC/NGO



- 37 -
collaboration in order to assist the expansion of NGO rural credit
activities to farmer groups who currently do not have access to existing
institutional credit sources; establish revised operational and managerial
procedures to improve the financial viability of company ranch lending
activities; establish deposit-taking activities to help promote savings
mobilization and contribute to AFC's eventual financial viability; and,
improve management information systems so as to increase the overall
efficiency of AFC's branches and supervision from field offices as well as
from Headquarters. It is anticipated that the implementation of these
innovative features will provide a sound basis for an expanded rural credit
program.
Costs and Financing Plan
7.     Total costs for the three AFC-implemented subprojects are estimated
at KSh 124.2 million, (US$ 6.5 million). This cost includes physical and
price contingencies of KSh 11.2 million. These subprojects would be
implemented over a 2-3 year period, beginning in 1988/89. The costs are
summarized below:
SubDroJect                           KSh (million)  % og Base
1. Smallholder lending:
(including group lending)                 70.2          56.5
2. Ranch lending:                            32.4          26.1
3. Deposit taking:                           21.6          17.4
Total Costs:                             124.2         100.0
The anticipated financing plan for the smallholder lending credit
subproject will be as follows:
IDA      : 60%
UNDP     : l0X
Farmers: : 15%
GOK/AFC  : 15X
ImDlementation Arrangements
8.      The SHC component, including the group lending scheme, and the
ranch component would be implemented through AFC's line departments. AFC
may involve the participation of a Kenya-based NGO to assist in the
implementation of AFC's group lending activities, in accordinace with
arrangements acceptable to Government, AFC and IDA. Implementation of the
deposit taking component would be the responsibility of the proposed
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), to be established as a subsidiary of
AFC along the lines of a commercial bank.
III.    22F
9.      A key question which will be addressed in this sub-project is the
ability of ADB to compete with well established banks in obtaining demand
deposits from mural areas. The experience obtained with the five



- 38 -
deposit-taking branches to be established will provide an indication of the
financial feasibility of expanding such deposit taking activities. There are
no other major outstanding issues regarding the sub-project and satisfactory
agreements have been reached with AFC regarding the overall Rub-project concept
and scope, and policy and procedural changes required for its implementation.
The main requirement is to ensure that Treasury
provides AFC with adequate budgetary allocation in 1988/89 in order to enable
project activities though building on momentum gained with AFC IV Credit (which
closed on June 30, 1988).   This will help ensure that the experience is
available for the design of the proposed larger rural credit project.
IV.     PLAN OF ACTION FOR NEXT STEPS
10.     In order to help ensure early start-up of project activities,  the
follcwing plan of action were discussed and agreed in principle with AFC:
(a)   Smallholder Credit
o     Short-term lending procedures and amortization schedules would
be reviewed to reflect the farmer's income generating capacity
of the investments financed.   Specific operational details,
including programs and timetables for briefing branch managers
and staff, and a redefined strategy for reaching the target
population would be submitted to IDA for review ant comment by
December 15, 1988.
o     A proposal to reduce elapsed time in sub-loan processing, provide
effective feedback to farmers, and increase accountability of
staff participating in sub-loan processing, has been agreed with
AFC and will be submitted to IDA for review and comment by
December 15, 1988.
o     The credit/extension system linkages, including a definition of
responsibilities and the role of field extension staff in
providing the necessary technical advice to facilitate AFC's
credit operations.  A formal system for periodic reviews will
start-up in five districts during the 1988/89 crop year.  The
specific plan outlining these linkages would be finalized by AFC
and the MOA!Extension Divisioa by December 15, 1988, for review
by IDA.
o     Group lending procedures for smallholders will be tested on a
limited scale, with the possible collaboration of a Kenya-based
NGO, and with APC's over activities. Arrangements would be made
to provide on-the-job training to AFC's staff in other developing
countries with relevant experience abroad for AFC staff who would
assume lead responsibility of the component. Short term technical
assistance would also be provided to set up the group lending
scheme and provide on-the-job training in AFC branch offices to
participate in the implementation of this component.
(b)   Ranch Component:
o     The component would effect important changes  in management,
supervision and the technical/developmental approach followed



- 39 -
by AFC in lending for ranch development. These changes would be
tested in 4 of the ranches, currently being assisted by AFC. The
ranches would be selected jointly with IDA by December 1, 1988.
For this purpose agreements regarding equity contribution,
management of the ranch operations, focussing on measures to
streamline and redefine roles and responsibilities of the ranch
Executive Committee, ranch manager and AFC, would be sought from
ranch  shareholders  by  January  15,  1989.    Operations  and
supervision procedures would also be streamlined; emphasis would
be placed in reducing the number of participants, both from within
AFC and outside of the agency, taking decisions or having to veto
powers of financial commercial and operational matters, and to
increase accountability of remaining ones.
O     A qualified ranch manager(s) will be hired by the participating
ranches (say, by January 15, 1989). AFC's area branch manager
will monitor closely the progress in the rehabilitation of group
ranch activities, based on the agreed principles.
o     To implement the component, and no later than December 31, 1988,
AFC wills
-     redefine  the  role  and  responsibilities  of  the  ranch
executive committee, ranch manager and APC;
-     reach agreement with ranch shareholders on a revised set
of conditions on the terms of lending and supervision
arrangements. Full agreement on these would be a necessary
condition for the ranch to participate in the component;
and
prepare terms of reference both for the ranch manager and
for the ranch AFC subproject coordinator and for the
specialist in charge of fulfilling AFC's responsibilities
for implementing the component.
Meeting of the above requirements will be a condition of disbursement
for the ranch subproject; IDA would have an opportunity to review the above
items before these are finalized.
(c)   Deposit Taking Component:
o    (i)  GOK's final approval to AFC's request to establish ADB,
including the authorization to transfer resources to meet CBK's
minimum capital requirements, would be a condition of
disbursements for this component. The request, submitted by AFC
to CPK is expected to be approved by mid-January, 1989.
O    (ii) The start up of the component requires large initial outlays
of resources which, if financed before credit effectiveness with
AFC's own resources, may create cash flow problems to the agency.
Therefore, these investments would start only after credit
effectiveness. However, ABD's management, including a qualified
banker as head, should be hired within two months after GOK's



- 40 -
final approval of the ADB.  This management team will develop
the organizational structure of ADB, the latter's linkages with
AFC and CBK, operational policies and a timetable for phasing-in
of the different banking services. The preparatory phase will
be finalized and agreed upon before March 15, 1989. Other staff
required for starting up the deposit taking component would be
hired or redeployed and trained during the period March to
September 1989.
o    (iii)  GOK approval of the ADB, the appointment of key staff, and
the formulation of measures to mobilize deposits, satisfactory
to IDA, will be a condition of disbursement of IDA funds for this
component.
(d)   MIS and Monitoring Systems:
o    A revised MIS and monitoring and evaluation system for the SEC
component would be finalized and submitted to IDA for review no
later than January 15, 1989). The H&E systems for the ranch,
pilot group lending scheme, and for deposit taking activi.ties will
be built into the respective components.  Monitoring of, SHC,
ranch and group lending scheme will continue to be a joint
responsibility of the Planning or Technical Department of AFC;
monitoring of the ADB activities would be the responsibility of
the section to be established within ADD.  In addition to the
normal supervision activities and six monthly reporting, a six
monthly review of all subcomponents will be carried out jointly
by IDA, AFC and UNDP.   The impact evaluation of the three
subprojects would be executed by the MPND, in consultation with
AFC.
Retroactive Financing
-1.     It is anticipated that IDA will provide retroactive financing, for
expenditures estimated at KSh 25.0 million incurred under the sub-project
starting July 1, 1988. In particular IDA will finance:
hiring of ADB key staff, and short term technical support for a
total amount of up to KSh 2.0 million;
on the job training and short term technical assistance required
to prepare and start up the smallholder group lending scheme for
a total amount of up to KSh 1.0 million; and
on farm lending for smallholders, including groups, for up to KSh
22.0 million.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
LIVESTOCK MARKETING IN THE SOUTHERN RANGELANDS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.1     The two districts of Kajiado and Narok which comprise part of the
southern rangelands cover an area of 40620 sq. km. Over 85% of these
districts is classified as rangelands suitable only for the production of
livestock. The human population is about 452,000, of which 65% are Maasai
pastoralists who depend solely on livestock for their livelihood.
Currently the southern rangelands support an estimated 1.2 million cattle,
2.2 million sheep and goats, 40,000 donkeys and a multitude of wildlife for
which the districts are famous.
1.2     Kajiado and Narok districts are important sources of slaughter
stock for the meat markets in Naku-u, Nairobi and their environs. They
supply about 115,000 cattle and 80,O00 sheep and goats annually. In
addition the two districts are the corridors through which several thousand
cattle are illicitly imported from Tanzania.
1.3     Through past development efforts, the Maasai have been drawn into
the market economy. They have introduced improved breeds of livestock.
The practice of fattening steers is becoming more common. The population
of small stock has increased dramatically in the last two decades. All
these factors are increasing the supply of slaughter stock from the area.
1.4     It is important that the marketing system be capable of
facilitating the increasing supplies of livestock that would be offered for
sale. The present livestock marketing system is, however, in disarray:
there is no organised market for small stock; some of the stock routes,
holding grounds and sale yards developed by previous projects are in
disuse, due to breakdown of facilities; access to some stock routes has
been blocked by wheat farms; only a few markets operate regularly, and even
these are poorly organised yielding virtually no information on prices,
volume and class of animals traded. All these have led to inadequate
disease surveillance of animals passing through the marketing chain.
1.5     There is an absence of information in the marketing system from
producer to consumer. With the deregulation of livestock and meat prices,
the absence of information hampers intelligent decision making by all
market participants leading to inefficiencies the cost of which are
eventually borne by producers and consumers.
1.6     The livestock marketing problems enumerated above are applicable to
all rangelands throughout Kenya. The rationale for selecting Kajiado and
Narok for the subproject is as followL: First, animals which are illicitly
imported from Tanzania may carry rinderpest, Contagious Bovine
Plenopneumonia (CBPD) and Foot and Mouth Disease. It is important to put
in place designated trek routes and stock sales yards at which animals are
inspected with only clean animals allowed to pass through. Second, a
majority of people in these districts solely depend on livestock for



- 42 -
livelihood. Improving the efficiency of the livestock marketing system
will benefit this majority. Third, the proximity of these districts to
Ministry headquarters facilitates the implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of an innovative subproject as well as training staff for other
districts.
II.     THE SUBPROJECT
Oblectives and DescriDtion
2.1     The overall objective of the subproject is to help GOK in
implementing its recent decision to deregulate beef prices through measures
that would improve the efficiency of livestock marketing in the southern
rangelands for the benefit of both producers and consumers. Specifically,
the subproject aims at
-     facilitating the orderly movement of clean animals from the
producer to the terminal livestock market,
-     organising auctions for efficient marketing of animals to
achieve a more transparent discovery of price,
-     utilising auction days for the provision of livestock inputs
and services,
-     increasing the number of primary traders and their throughput
to improve competition in purchasing animals from producers,
-     establishing a prototype livestock market information service
with a view to extending the system countrywide,
-     training the cadre of personnel involved in livestock
marketing, including marketing and extension officers, county
council personnel, traders and butchers, and
-     instituting an effective approach to improving the
government's livestock services in the light of the policy
decision to decontrol livestock and meat prices.
Subpro Iect Components
2.2     Holding grounds and sales yards would be rehabilitated and/or
established at night stops of the most important trek routes.
2.3     Credit would be made available to primary traders, to increase
their participation and purchases.
2.4     Private enterpreneurs would be encouraged and supported to provide
accaricides, veterinary drugs and other livestock supplies and inputs at
auction yards.
2.5     A mobile banking service would be introduced at auction sales and a
campaign launched to promote the advantage of selling old steers and saving
the proceeds in the bank.



- 43 -
2.6     A Livestock Market Intelligence Unit (LIMAIU) would be established
in the LMD. LIMAIU would collect and analyse livestock marketing
information in both districts, disseminating it by radio, newspapers and
regular bulletins published by LMD. Funds will be made available for
establishing the first phase of a national livestock market information
system in Headquarters. Funds will be used to finance communications
equipment, vehicles and training staff of LIMAIU, non-salary operating
expenses to secure and disseminate market information.
2.7     The establishment and operation of the LIMAIU has not been tried
before in Kenya it will require intensive training.  The cadre of holding
ground and auction yard managers, stock sales reporters, auctioneers and
district county council and marketing officers would be trained in data
collection analysis and dissemination. Similarly, educationial messages
directed towards livestock traders will be passed at the auction yards.
Although funds would contribute to the national livestock market
information system in Headquarters, it is understood that the Subproject
would focus efforts in the subproject area and use the experience and
approach developed to the national system (say beginning in 1990/91).
Key Feature
2.8     The subproject will introduce a number of key features that can be
replicated in other districts with suitable adjustments to the approach
followed in the subproject area. Foremost among these measures will be the
introduction of livestock market intelligence, training and supporting
services in order to improve the efficiency of the livestock marketing
system.
2.9     Secondly, conducting auction sales with the active role of the
private sector will systematise price discovery and increase its
transparency. Furthermore, the announcement of weights as animals enter
the auction ring will facilitate the evolution of bidding by weight and
animal condition as time goes.
2.10    Thirdly, delegating the operation and management of market
facilities to local governments will strengthen government's policy of
district focus for rural development.
2.11    Fourthly, making available unsecured loans to groups of primary
traders is hitherto untried. It is possible that a suitable NGO would
collaborate in this action.
2.12    Fifthly, providing extension services, livestock inputs and mobile
banking services at auction yards would be a new approach to developing
rangelands.
2.13    If the subproject is successfully implemented, all of these
innovations could be expanded at the national level with suitable
adjustments.



- 44 -
Estimated Costs
2.14    The estimated costs of the subproject are about KSh 37.0 million (1988
constant prices), including salary costs covered by GOK. Most of the investments
required for the subproject will be implemented in three years, beginning in
1989/90. The training component is expected to carry on for a period of three
years.
KSh (Million)
Infrastructural development                     8.0
Equipment & Vehicles                            8.0
Credit                                          2.5
TrainIng                                        9.4
Recurrent costs                                  8.6
TA                                              0.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS                               37.1
Contingencies                                    7.3
Total Costs                                    44.4
Implementation Arrangements
2.15    The subproject would be implemented through existing Government structures.
The Livestock Marketing Division (LMD) of the Ministry of Livestock Development
(MOLD) would have the overall responsibility for the project.             A Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), headed by a senior officer, would be responsible for
the day to day management of the subproject. This subproject coordinator would
report directly to the Chief of LMD.
2.16    The implementation of the subproject at the district level requires
cooperation and coordination between various district entities and market
participants, including the offices of the district commissioners, the county
council, the livestock production and marketing officers, the veteranarians,
livestock traders and producers.   It is proposed that a subproject steering
committee be established in each district representing the above entities under
the chairmanship of the District Commissioner and the secretaryship of the district
livestock marketing officer.    The  function of the steering committee will
essentially be to ensure that the subproject is implemented properly and that the
holding grounds, trek routes and livestock sales yards are properly maintained,
that veterinary regulations governing the orderly movement of livestock are
enforced  *and  to  deliberate  on  policy  issues,   particularly  those  of
inter-departmental nature.
2.17    It is proposed that a Ministry Sub Project Review Committee (PRC) be
formed, chaired by the Deputy Secretary with the Chiefs of Livestock Marketing,
Range Management, Animal Production Divisions; the Director of Veterinary Services
and the Head, Planning Division as members and the head of PIC as secretary. The
PRC would review progress of the project. It is proposed that the AFC, KCB and
NGO's operating in the districts would be invited to participate in the provision
of credit and banking services.



- 45 -
Potential Benefits and Risks
2.18    The quantifiable benefits of the subproject are:
-     increased marketed offtake of cattle from less than 8  to 12X and
that of small stock from about 3? to 15? from increased disease
surveillance and reduction of market costs.
-     reduced cost of livestock marketing;
-     higher returns to livestock producers due to improved methods of
livestock buying and selling;
2.19    The unquantifiable benefits arise from institutional strengthening of
improved livestock marketing and include:
-     dissemination of market information for sound policy, production and
marketing decisions;
-     availability of livestock inputs, credit and banking facilities
nearer to producers;
-     training of a cadre of personnel that will develop livestock
marketing systems and services throughout Kenya.
2.20    The  subproject's  M&E  system will  establish  clear  and  quantifiable
performance indicators in order to ensure smooth implementation and to establish
the benefits and merits for replication.
2.21    Various measures have been built-in the project to address the following
two main risks.
-     failure of a modus-operandi worked out betweer LMD and the county
councils on how market infrastructures would be maintained.   If
necessary, this would be addressed through discussions at the
proposed steering committees.
-     redeployment of equipment, facilities and vehicles purchased for the
subproject to other uses. Assurances would be sought from LMD that
these would be for the exclusive use of the subproject.
III.    MAIN ISSUES
3.1     The following three issues should be discussed and agreed upon before the
project starts:
(a)   Institutional Arrangements: It is recommended that formal agreements
be made between LMD and the county councils of Narok and Kajiado,
and private traders in stipulating the specific roles and modes of
cooperation and collaboration in developing, running and maintaining
livestock marketing facilities.



- 46 -
(b)   Budgetary Provisions:  It is recommended that budgetary provisions
be made to meet the implementation requirements of the subproject.
This would require provisions in the forward budget for the period
1989190 - 1991/92 and the annual budget estimates.   In order to
enable completion of detailed field studies prior to project start
up in July 1989, it is understood that MOLD will provide funds from
available sources, such as the Agricultural Sector Management Project
(ASMP) financed by IDA.
IV.     NEXT STEPS AND OPERATIONAL ACTION PLAN
4.1     The following steps need to be taken for the timely start-up of the
subproject and its successful implementation:
Key Actions                               Target Dates
(i)    MOLD appointed subproject
coordinator with suitable experience and
qualifications;                              November 1, 1988
(ii)   MOLD/LMD to complete the
arrangements on the role of District and
county councils and private traders in
in implementation of project activities
and their operation and maintenance;          By November 30, 1988
(iii) MOLD/LMD complete additional
field visits to project area to prepare
in detail requirements for infrastructure
improvements (e.g. blueprints), credit,
(equipment (weight bridges, VHF ratio
transmitter); and institutional
arrangements;                                 Bv January 15, 1989;
(iv)   MOLD, in collaboration with the
the MOLD's Development Planning
Division, to update draft Implementation
Report (IR), based on findings from
additional detailed preparation and
field visits; and to submit to IDA
for review and comment                        By February 1, 1989;
(v)    Establishment of a District
Subproject Steering Committee and
MOLD Subproject Project Review
Committee;                                    By July 1, 1989



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
CO-OPERATIVE MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT (PHASE II) PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.      Co-operatives are important business concerns in Kenya, especially
in the agricultural sector where they play a major role in the servicing
of smallholder agriculture. There are more than 5,000 registered
cooperatives in the country (3068 of which are active primary societies),
the majority being in the agricultural sector, with a membership of 2.1
million and total annual turnover of approximately KShs 6 billion.
Agricultural co-operatives, numbering 1716 as at the end of 1987 and a
total membership of about 1.3 million (representing 65% of the total
membership of the cooperatives) are of vital importance to the
agricultural sector in Kenya. They are the basic institutions involved in
the primary marketing of major smallholder crops such as coffee, cotton,
pyrethrum, sugarcane and the dairy products. Thtey handle about 65% of the
total value of the major crops marketed in Kenya. In addition to produce
marketing activities, agricultural co-operatives provide farm inputs and
savings and credit facilities to their members.
2.      There are great differences in the level of performance of
cooperative societies and unions. Some cooperatives have done extremely
well but most of them have not been able to attain a satisfactory level of
performance due to a number of weaknesses and constraints, a large part of
which are associated with the broader issues of cooperative management and
supervision. Cooperatives and the Ministry of Cooperative Development
(HOCD), which has a mandate to help develop and supervise cooperative
activities, have suffered from major problems, most of which are
management related. They are saddled with considerable problems
associated with their inadequate management and supervision. Proper and
efficient management of the co-operatives has been a major concern both to
the Government, and to the members for whom the co-operative's performance
has a direct economic benefit. Factors which affect the effectiveness of
management of the cooperatives include (i) the quality (and, to some
extent, the poor conditions of service) of many secretary/managers; (ii)
the tendency of Management Committee members to interfere regularly in the
day-to-day operations of executive maAagement; (iii) poor management and
operational systems and procedures; and (iv) inadequate supervision of the
cooporatives. In Sessional Paper No. 1 of 1986 (Economic Management for
Renewed Growth) it is recognized that "perhaps the major constraint ....
is the lack of management capacity" and "the Government will encourage
co-operatives to invest in the training of managers .... and to look to
other Government training programs as a source of new managers and
technical officers". In addition to "Inadequate manpower", shortage of
operational funds both in the Ministry of Cooperative Development and in
the Cooperative Movement had been identified earlier in the current
Development Plan (1983-1988) and in the previous ones as a constraint in
the development and improvement of co-operatives.
3.      In order to improve the management performance of cooperatives,
the Government, supported by several donor-financed programs and projects,
u- 4- ,ha nnot nttamntpd to address some sDecific aspects of cooperative



- 48 -
operations. However, as can be assessed, the results have been mixed and
often of short duration because improvements which may have beal achieved
in one area of operation have often been negated by the continued pour
performance in others, particularly general management. This was mainly
due to problems associated with donor support to the cooperative movement,
including lack of a broad strategy to deal with the movement's problems,
resulting in the assistance been aimed at solving problems of detail
rather than those of the whole. The CMIP initiative, which is aimed at
addressing simultaneously and directly several of the broader
inter-related cooperative management issues, is expected to bring about
improvements on a broad front which in the end would result in some sort
of synergistic effort on the quality of cooperative operations.
4.      CMIP Phase I has made a good progress in developing an effective
approach to diagnosing co-operative problems. The Project's Phase II is
intended to extend to the implementation phase the recommended approaches
in order to establish their effectiveness, which if proven successful,
would be extended to all cooperative societies in the country.
II.     THE SUB-PROJECT
Oblectives
5.      The overall objective of this sub-project is to develop and
implement a replicable approach to improving management capacit:' at the
society/union level, to improve MOCD's institutional capacity and
effectiveness at the field level, and to strengthen the institutional
capacity of other organizations providing support services to the
co-operatives.
proect CCODMonents
(a)   Co-operative Society/Union Management
6.      This component would address the issues contributing to poor
management performance of co-operatives, including lack of business
management skills on the part of the management committees, the
committees' inability to identify good executive managers, and the lack of
an analytical approach to utilizing available, albeit inadequate,
management information. This integrated and coordinated approach to
cooperative management problems would include ,he following activities:
(i) diagnosis of individual co-operative problems by MOCD
project management, with emphasis on management-related
deficiencies;
(ii) a review of the impact of past training provided to
management of cooperatives;
(iii) business management training at all levels of cooperative
management;
(iv) development and testing of a comprehensive management
information system (MIS) and procedures for all levels of
management within the cooperatives;



- 49 -
(v) modernization and/or improvement of data management and
recording system and capabilities.
(b) Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD)
7.      This component will strengthen the MOCD through training and
re-orientation of MOCD field staff towards a business management advisory
approach; provision of adequate logistical support for field supervision;
and the development and implementation of an appropriate Management
Information System and a "Training and Follow-up" (T&F) system for MOCD
field staff, specially adapted to the needs of supervision of
co-operatives.
(c)   Other Institutions Providina Services to Co-operatives
8.      The CMIP Phase II will provide management training to higher level
personnel directly involved in the training, management and other support
services to co-operative societies. Some of these institutions include:
District Co-operative Unions providing personnel and accounting services,
the Co-operative College of Kenya which provides training for both
cooperative movemt-t and MOCD personnel, the Kenya Union of Co-operative
Savings and Credit societies (KUSCCO) which provides support to savings
and credit co-operatives, the Co-operative Bank of Kenya and the Kenya
National Federation of Co-operatives.
Innovative Features
9.      The subproject's main innovative features include:  (a) the
development of (a) "Training and Follow-up" systems similar to the
Training and Visit (T&V) System of agricultural extension for the MOCD's
field services; (b) business management training aimed at re-orienting
MOCD personnel towards more business management advisory skills, rather
than training focusing on the traditional regulatory and supervisory
approach; and (c) non-monetary incentives to reward excellent performance
by MOCD field personnel cooperative officials (e.g. certificates of
recognition, training visits, etc).
Costs Estimates and Financina
10.     Initially the project will be restricted to the 7 districts and
some 28 cooperative societies covered under CMIP Phase I. Subject to the
progress reached in ea'h district, it is envisaged that the number of
societies would increase gradually over the project's five year period.
11.     It is estimated that the total project costs will be KSh 63.6
million (at constant 1988 prices) over the project period of 5 years,
beginning in 1988/89. The funding requirements for 1988/89 fiscal year
are about KSh 6.2 million. However, the final presented estimates for
1988/89 were only KSh 474,000. Therefore, there is a need for Treasury to
increase MOCD's funds during the 1988/89 supplemental estimates. Overall
budget constraints and MOCD's relatively low budget ceilings pose the risk
of under funding of essential sub-project activities. It is recommended
that the MOCD and the Treasury should ensure that adequate provision is
made in the forthcoming Forward Budgets and in the annual budgets for the
full project period, i.e. fiscal years 1989/90, 1990/91 and 1991/92.It is
anticipated that IDA would finance about 70% of the total costs, following
a pattern similar to the one used for CMIP Phase I.



- 50 -
Imolementation ArranRements
12.     The project will be implemented by the Projects and Management
Division (PMD) within the MOCD. At the national level it will be headed
by a full time Project Co-ordinator and at the district/field level, the
District Co-operative Officer (DCO) will be responsible for the
implementation of the project in accordance with the "District Focus
Strategy for Rural Development". However, the DCO will designate an
officer to coordinate the day-to-day activities on full-time basis with
other MOCD officers participating according to the project's work program,
and giving priority to the project's activities. Monitoring and
evaluation will be done by MOCD staff at both the Ministry Headquarters
and the Provincial Offices. The monitoring of the project activities
would be reviewed by the recently established District Co-operative
Programs Implementation Committee (CPIC), which will be reviewing all
cooperative activities within the District. Consultancy services to
provide short-term advisory support for the project implementation will be
procured by MOLD Headquarters as and when the need arises. Project funds
have been provided for this purpose.
Potential Benefits and Risks
13.     It is expected that the strengthened MOCD in relation to
operational facilities and improved quality of field services will result
in improved management of the co-operatives, better and more timely
pay-outs to the members as an incentive to improved agricultural output,
and timely availability of key inputs such as credit and fertilizer. The
project results would form a basis for the Government to implement a
national co-operative management improvement program.
14.     A potential risk is the inability of existing personnel to fully
re-orient themselves to business management advisory approach and failure
to devote their efforts to the project on a full time basis due to lack of
incentives or rewards. Improved and sustained management effectiveness
will be largely determined by the incentive structure and system offered
by the MOCD and the co-operatives. In order to help encourage better
performance and retain trained personnel and to effectively implement the
project, it is recommended that MOCD design and adopt suitable incentive
systems for both co-operative and MOCD personnel which could be supported
by the project. The basis for these rewards will be a set of performance
indicators reflecting improved management performance by MOCD personnel
and co-operative staff. Further, in order to help reduce these risks, it
is also recommended that specialists from outside the ministerial
structure be used to assist in the design of the business management
programs and management information systems.
15.     Furthermore, overall budget constraints and MOCD's relatively low
budget ceilings pose the risk of under-funding of essential sub-project
activities. It is recommended that the MOCD and the Treasury should
ensure that adequate provision is made in the revised budget estimates for
1988/89 and in the forthcoming Forward Budgets and in the annual budgets
for the full project period, i.e. fiscal years 1989,90, 1990/91 and
1991/92.



- 51 -
MAIN ISSUES
16.     Proiect Financing:  The level of funds provided in the final approved
budget for 1988/89 is less than 102 of the funding requirements for the fiscal
year.  In order to ensure proper start-up of project implementation during
1988/89 the MOCD and the Treasury should ensure the adequate provision is made
either through re-allocation or through supplementary allocations to MOLD's
existing budget. Treastry has agreed to make the necessary arrangements for
this provision.
NEXT STEPS AND PLAN OF ACTION
17.     Prior to the commencement of implementation of the project,  the
following are the next steps that need to be taken:
Key Actions                                  Target Date
(i)    MOCD/DCO to designate full-time
District coordinators (subject to budgetary
allocations for subproject);                    By Docember 1, 1988;
Subproject Coordinator already appointed        September 1988
(ii)   Subproject Coordinator in
Headquarters to prepare initial training
plan, in consultation with District
Coordinator; and to prepare the draft TOR
for short-term consultants;                     By December 15, 1988;
(iii) Subprojcct Cooiuinator, in
consultation with District Coordinators
(or DCO) to prepare detailed plan and
procedures for training and follow-up
system;                                         By December 15, 1988;
(iv)   Subproject Coordinator, in
consultation with District Coordinators,
to update the draft IR (including the
performance indicators for HOCD and
Cooperative staff) and to submit it
to IDA for review and comment;                  By December 15, 1989;
(v)    Coordinator in consultation with
District Coordinators, to prepare draft
work plan and schedule of activities for
1988/89 and draft budget estimates;             By February 1, 1989;
(vi)   Coordinator in Headquarters to
prepare detailed Management Information
System and detailed training plan;              By February 1, 1989;



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN 2ROJECT
BARINGO (PHASE II) SUBPROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.      Over its seven years of implementation from 1981 to 1987, the Baringo
Pilot Semi-Arid Area Project (BPSAAP) tested and demonstrated a number of
techniques for improving livestock production and increasing the security of
crop production through the installation in many parts of the project area of
trials on water harvesting, soil and moisture conservation, range improvement
and crop production. However, the recent Project Completion Report concluded
that, while good progress was made in a number of areas, there is a need to
further refine the technology, giving much more attention to cost
effectiveness and sustainability.
2.      Baringo (Phase II) would facilitate the transformation of field
experience and tangible results obtained under this phase to a larger scale
development. The emphaiis would be on the means to foster adoption of
sustairable technical solutions within the framework of local communities and
the constraints they face. The proposed subproject would cover the same area
as BPSAAP but whereas activities under the first project were dispersed over
the project area, activities under Baringo II would be concentrated in six
development areas. Each area would cover about 20,000 ha based loosely on a
watershed but defined in terms of sublocations. The approach would
concentrate on developing a dialogue with the communities through their
traditional structures, to elicit from the people their needs and goals and to
ensure that the agreed solutions are implementable and sustainable within the
resources and management capacity of the community assisted. This would
involve the development and testing of an improved and sustainable approach
for the provision of government services in Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL)
areas. By developing the dialogue with the communities, identifying the
constraints and matching the constraints to the proven technical solutions and
the ability of government to provide the necessary resources - both staff and
budgetary, the Government's supporting services should over time become much
more effective in ASAL areas. Therefore, Baringo (Phase II) is a key input to
developing a cost effective and sustainable approach to a national ASAL
strategy and program.
3.      A second key element in the project's rationale is the emphasis on
linkages. Whereas the first project supported actions implemented relatively
independently by each technical ministry, Baringo II would link actions with
the aim of strengthening their complementarity and interdependence. Whenever
possible, a community based micro-catchment approach would be adopted.
Provision of support for initiatives such as water pans would be contingent on
the community providing catchment protection to avoid siltation; support for
introduction of improved breeds such as Galla goats would be dependent on
improving the grazing resources through the successful establishment, for
example, of fodder plots. Assistance from government services for a new
activity would be contingent on the successful adoption and managemert of an
initial, linked activity.



- 53 -
II.     OBJECTIVES
4.      The primary objectives for the sub-project would be:
(i)   to further develop and adopt an improved and replicable approach
to the provision of rural services in ASAL areas based on
resource planning which brings the key field service officers
together in direct interaction with the communities;
(ii) to help introduce greater cost sharing in the provision of
government services especially in terms of the day-to-day
management and operation of new established enterprises through
ensuring their economic viability and social acceptance;
(iii) to help strengthen existing financial procedures, with a view
toward developing an improved financing mechanism, that are
flexible and responsive to the type of micro-project
initiatives, developed from interaction with the communities; and
(iv) to establish and implement an effective monitoring and
evaluation system which would facilitate the generation of
information which would be readily accessible for use in other
ASAL areas through evaluation studies, surveys and systematic
documentation of project activities and progress.
5.      Secondary, longer term objectives would be:
o     to generate more reliable, sustainable and when possible higher
levels of crop and livestock production in ASAL areas;
o     to reduce the vulnerability of the poorer segments of ASAL
society by better integrating them into the development process;
and
o     in conjunction with productive interventions, to encourage soil
and moisture conservation and the preservation of the resource
base.
III.    COMPONENTS
6.      The main components are as follows:
(a)     Institutional Development
This component would consist of the following:
(i)   Detailed Plannina:  Design and detailed planning for the
subproject's development areas. This would include inventories of the
physical resource and socio-economic base, identification of main
constraints and potentials for development, and preparation of work
plans in consultation with community leaders.
(il) Monitoring and Evaluation: A monitoring system would be
designed and implemented throughout project implementation. Key
indicators would be selected to compare actual performance with
physical and financial targets set in annual work plans and budgets



- 54 -
(Attachment 1 outlines preliminary list of indicators). Evaluation would
assess the impact of the project in terms of targets achieved, benefits
to the target group and development of adoptable technical solutions.
(iii) Training: In service training would be provided for the District
Planning Unit and the Project Coordinating Unit. Provision would be made
for study tours to other ASAL projects to assist in transfer of technology
and approaches. An overseas study tour would be organised for senior staff
to one or two countries with similar conditions. Additional short-term
training tailored to the needs would be provided under the agricultural
support services component.
(b)     Aaro-physical Works and Other:  Acttvities would include:
(i) range reclamation and improvement; (ii) soil and water conservation;
domestic and livestock water development; small scale irrigation; and
livestock breed improvement. Local communities would participate in both
the planning and execution of these activities. Emphasis would be placed
on seeking interventions which are cost effective and sustainable. This
experience would provide valuable information for the formulation and
implementation of a national ASAL.
(c)     A2ricultural Support Services:  This component would provide support to
MOA and MOLD to strengthen research and extension in the project area.
Activities of the two ministries would be closely linked and would include
both on farm and off farm demonstrations and extension advise covering crop
production, soil and water conservation, livestock production and range
management.  Training for project and district staff would be provided
through short-term courses and seminars.
Sd)     ASAL Fund:  This component would provide a flexible mechanism for fundL'g
the various activities to be implemented under the project. The scope of
activities will be determined through an iterative process of "bottom-up"
planning and this is likely to require adjustments from year to year in
the budgets of line ministries. The fund would provide an appropriate
means to respond quickly to varying funding requirements, within the
framework of existing GOK budgetary procedures. The experience in Baringo
and other ASAL projects have undeLscored the importance of this funding
flexibility in order to ensure maximum impact of the investments. It is
understood that the arrangements for this component would be integrated
with any Government decisions involving a possible ASAL fund currently
under discussion.
IV.     ESTIMATED COSTS
7.      Subproject costs are about KSh 63.4 million (1988 constant prices), and
KSh 74.5, including physical and price contingencies. These costs include US$
660,000 from an IDA-approved Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to help continue
key actions from Phase 1 which would facilitate start-up under Phase II.  By
component, costs are as follows:



- 55 -
KSh (million)   USS 000'S
a)     Institutional Development               11.9            643
b)     Agro-physical works and other           14.8            800
c)     Agricultural support services           24.0          1,297
d)     ASAL funds                              12.7            686
Total (1988 constant prices)            63.4          3,426
V.      IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
8.      The Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND) would provide
overall coordination and would be responsible for the development plan and work
programs for each Development Area and for coordinating inputs from the other
participating ministries, MOA, MOLD, MOWD, and the Ministry of Lands and Housing
(MOLH).   These arrangements would be adjusted as necessary to strengthen the
District focus strategy.  The existing BPSAMP project management team would be
maintained under the leadership of the Project Coordinator.   Liaison with the
district headquarters at Kabarnet would be strengthened through the project
steering committee which would include members of the project management team and
district level officials, under the chairmanship of the D.C.   The steering
committee would review and approve the project annual work programs and monitor
progress. The project components and arrangements for their implementation have
been discussed and agreed with the district development committee.
VI.     POTENTTAL BENEFITS AND RISKS
9.      Potential benefits of the subproject include increased livestock and crop
productivity, resulting in improved food security and higher incomes to farmers
and livestock owners. The provision of rural services based on resource planning
involving local communities would enhance the likelihood of more rapid adoption
of improved technology for semi-arid areas. There are a number of risks associated
with the subproject.   The cost effectiveness and sustainability of promising
technology for semi-arid lands is still unproven and remains uncertain. Methods
for soil and water conservation and rangeland rehabilitation are known but these
depend on the control of land use which in turn requires the full cooperation of
local communities. The people of the subproject area live in a relatively harsh
environment and have a high aversion to risk; their willingness to participate
remains uncertain.   Other risks include the difficulties of coordinating the
activities of several government agencies, the scarcity of staff with the necessary
skills in resource planning, monitoring and evaluation, and the possible lack of
flexibility in government procurement and expenditure procedures.   The project
would support measures to reduce the possible adverfse impact of these factors.
VII.    ISSUES
10.     The main issues to be resolved concern decisions and actions necessary for
further preparation of the subproject. These issues and recommendations include:
(a)   Adjustments of the PPF to make adequate provision in the 1988/89
revised or supplemental budget for MPND to manage detailed planning
and coordination.



- 56 -
It is recommended that the budget for MPND in 1988/89 be increased
to about K 155,000 to provide for essential design and planning
activities (the breakdown according to component also has been worked
out).
(b)   Inadequate capacity to undertake resource planning, monitoring and
evaluation.
It is recommended that short term technical assistance be provided
to assist develop the framework for resource planning, monitoring
and evaluation and provide in-service training to local staff.
(c)   Flexibility of funding (including consideration of the establishment
of an ASAL fund) to cater for the varying resource requirements of
different concerned government agencies during the course of
implementation.
It is recommended that Government make on early decision is taken
to establish such a fund for Baringo II as part of an overall ASAL
funding policy. Exper.'ence gained in operating the fund would be
useful for refining the implementation of suitable funding mechanisms
for a national ASAL development program.
VIII.   NEXT STEPS AND PLAN OF ACTION
11.     The main next steps in order to expedite implementation of the project are:
Plan of Action                               Target Date(s)
(a) MPND to seek from MOP revised budget
allocations for subproject funds required
during 1988/89 (using approved PPF funds);       By  December 15, 1988
(b) MPND to appoint subproject
coordinator; (in interim, there is acting
coordinator)                                     By  January 15, 1989
(c) Preparation of terms of reference for
short-term consultants;                          By  January 15, 1989
(d) Formal presentation of subproject to
Baringo District Development Committee           By  January 15, 1989
(e) MPND, under subproject coordinator,
to complete draft Implementation Report
(including performance indicators) and
to submit to IDA for review and comment;         By  February 15, 1989
(f) Subproject Steering Committee to
review work plan for 1989/90;                    By February 15, 1989



- 57 -
Attauent
BPRDW (MSE I) SUnORJE
IRMSE&MLET OFP                IDICA
I1!Iicator                  Keya %dable                       aSorce
1. RaP  Inroienat             is/     w     isaie           IPc ESs reports       HDID/PCJ
kea rlitated;
No. of fodder Lots a  yildd;
No. of famers adoptirg.
2. Soil & Water Omseratim
a) Water barvesting       Aea; No. of ais        pting; Progress reports, ,      A/
lpe of layout and cost;      (pplng sureys
crps grown; yields.
b) 2mrraciog              Aea served; No. of fm s    Progres reports          1M/PU
(Fanyajiu etc.)        aapting; crops gram; yields.
c) Qlly staflizatia       Design and cost; durablity   Eield sveys,          M4A
(clud  d.)             and  etives.                  Progress reports
3. Smla  Scale irrigatioa    Service area, costs; No. of    logress reports       WPWl
Rehb.                     frrimos; cropping intesty;
yields; cost recovery.
4.                           Ovq~fty; ratve of filU; cost:  Field suraey,         MOD/FJ
utiLtzatlm; catbnt            raogress reports
protection; cost rewwcy.
5. IListoc Breed             N,s. anl type; arival rate;  Progress rePorts       M)ID
0pwrv.mt                  E&n    to individual/grotp
cooperatiQin range
iprowenent and wter pan
deweot
6. Dips                      (bst; utilization; cost       Progress reports     M1)D
t%Ry.
7.  tensimn                  ND. of active  ktensim Staff; Progress reports       LM)ID
grap/viUaI meeti:s beld;
aloptioi aid effect of
re?amaen   practi.
8. Reserch                   Statin,  -farm trials         Progress reports      A2 (PARS)
establisabd; trial reslts;
ream datioss giuvs to
etesion; qty InVDve seed
bilked and diarlxtud.
9. ftinln                    No. of mn-days tining;        Progress reports       KU
No. of traini  corses bld;                           fi(rMIDAMti) IrM
stff training ercmLntry
(D-days).
hpe aboe prowlsiimd  list is provided as a guide  A final,       sive list of ilicators for
mnitorikg e evauatca wil be prepLed by the Project  oilmr       g Udt In camsultatim with tbe
rmvwnA line aop   aa         of the deAled work Dhm for year 1 of the project.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
SUM  RIVER CATCHMENT REHABILITATIOh SUB-PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.      Approximately 80% of Kenya's land area is sub-humid to semi-arid.
Economic development efforts generally have had limited effect in these
regions and most residents continue to practice fairly traditional forms of
land use. Livestock husbandry is the principal economic activity with tourism
an important land use in some places and irrigated or rain-fed cultivation
occurring in restricted localities. Human population growth due to natural
increase and to immigration from the crowded higher-potential zones has
greatly increased pressure on soil, water and vegetation resources.
Sedentarization trends, security problems and changes in land tenure have in
many places disrupted traditional systems of seasonal movements, producing
concentrations of people and livestock and particular stress on land
resources. Bank-supported Government development efforts for the arid and
semi-arid regions are expected to increase in coming years. Conservation and
management of soil and basic land productivity will have an essential role.
2.      Although the proposed subproject area in the Suam River catcbment has
unique features, its lend development problems are in many ways representative
of those of Kenya's marginal areas. Approximately 60% of the 5,900 sq km Suam
River catcbment is in northwestern Kenya, encompassing much of West Pokot
district; the rest overlaps into eastern Uganda. Most can be classified as
sub-humid to semi-arid and on the Kenya side is inhabited principally by Pokot
pastoralists; some cultivation occurs in the moister upper reaches near Mount
Elgon and Kapenguria and along the Suam River flood plain. However, the
catchment also is the entire watershed for a major hydroelectric power
generation project currently under construction by the Kerio Valley
Development Authority at the Turkwel Gorge on the border between West Pokot
and Turkana districts.
3.      Major portions of the Suam River catchment, mostly within Kenya, are
severely degraded. Much of the land surface has been subject to sheet erosion
and surface sealing and has had perennial grasses virtually eliminated. The
resultant heavy rainfall run-off has produced major gulley erosion, heavy
sedimentation in low-gradient valley bottoms and high silt-loads in the Suam
River. Causes of this degradation are complex and not fully understood but
probably include heavy grazing pressure and soil characteristics conducive to
sealing and erosion.
4.      The region's degraded state has been of concern for several decades
because of the consequent reduction in livestock and agricultural
productivity. Periodic rehabilitation projects have been carried out. Some
achieved short-term improvements in soil and vegetation conditions but none
resulted in significant sustained change in land use practices or range
condition. In the past few years land-productivity concerns have been
reinforced by predictions that heavy sedimentation will significantly shorten
the useful life of the of the Turkwel power-generation reservoir.



- 59 -
5.      The proposed subproject is intended to test an innovative approach to
rehabilitation of semi-arid areas such as the Suam River catchment. The
approach uses a land planning process to design and then implement both
physical works and land use changes. These physical works would be carried
out in the worst effected areas and would generate tangible benefits to the
benefitting population in terms of increased land productivity.
Community-based land use planning is difficult to carry out, particularly with
a dispersed and traditional population such as in the Suam River catchment,
and has few precedents in Kenya; however, it appears the most effective way to
achieve sustainable improvements in land use. The plan is intended to be
carried out with significant involvement of the local people -- whose
activities necessarily would determine the long-term sustainability of
improvements -- and the local government institutions which would have
long-term administrative responsibility.
6.      The subproject also would take an innovative approach to developing
technical solutions to semi-arid land degradation. Effective technical
interventions commonly are relatively expensive and require strong control
over land use. The proposed subproject would seek technical solutions that
are low-cost and sustainable largely by local efforts, and will emphasize
adoption of improved practices into existing land use systems. Subproject
activities would include physical rehabilitation of land and vegetation, and
extension to improve livestock and agricultural land use. Activities also
would be innovative in attempting to treat an entire subeatchment so as to be
able to test the combined effects of land use modification and physical
rehabilitation measures in reducing erosion and improvin% productivity.
7.      It is hoped that subproject results would have wide applicability in
developing sustainable and cost-effective land rehabilitation programs in
other semi-arid regions in Kenya. Further, the present subproject would treat
only a small portion (about 14,440 ha, or about 4%) of the Suam River
catcbment within Kenya. Successful subproject activities could be extended to
neighboring areas, amplifying productivity and sedimentation-control effects.
II.     OBJECTIVES
8.      The broad objectives of the subproject involve both the short and
medium terms, and aim to:
(a)   test an innovative approach to planning and implementing land
rehabilitation efforts in semi-arid areas;
(b)   test low-cost, sustainable technical methods of rehabilitating
degraded land in semi-arid areas;
1:.
(c)   secure tangible benefits of this testing in the form of improved
range and agricultural resource productivity in the subproject
area, through executing priority physical works;
(d)   find practical techniques for reducing erosion in the area and,
eventually, to reduce silt loads in the Suam River and
sedimentation in the Turkwel Gorge reservoir; and,
(e)   develop increased capabilities on the part of the Kerio  Valley
Development Authority (KVDA) and West Pokot District staff to
carry out land planning and rehabilitation projects (including
thp fnllnv-tin exnanded Dhase).



- 60 -
III.    COMPONENTS
9.      Components of the subproject by activity would be the following:
(A)     Land Management Plannini.  The first phase of the subproject --
lasting approximately one year -- would consist of preparation of a land
rehabilitation plan for a subcatchment of the Suam River (a catchment in the
Kaibon River drainage covering about 14,440 ha. has been tentatively
selected). Activities would include process design, initiation of local
participation, identification of issues, review and compilation of available
information, design of additional research, preparation and review of
management alternatives, selection of a management plan and design of a
research program. Testing comprehensive, community-based land use planning as
the basis for semi-arid land rehabilitation would be % major innovative
element of this subproject.
(B)     Plan Implementation/Land Rehabilitation.  The second phase of the
subproject - lasting three years - would consist of implementation of the
plan in order to test the approaches and generate tangible benefits.
Activities would include: (1) community-level land use extension and
improvement of livestock and agricultural practices; and, (2) grass
revegetation, erosion control and water resources management. The physical
works on a selective basis would include construction of: small dams in
tributaries in the worst affected areas, a series of contour bunds and cut-off
drains in worst affected areas of sheet erosion and to plant suitable
tree/grass species to provide check bunds; stone-filled gabion basket cheek
weirs in gullies. Significant innovations would be the emphasis on finding
cost-effective, sustainable practices that would be adopted by local people
and incorporated in land use systems.
(C)     Monitorina and Evaluation.  The third phase of the subproject, to be
carried out concurrently with the third year of plan implementation, would
consist of comprehensive evaluation of research and subproject results and
revision of the management plan accordingly. Detailed monitoring of results
also would take place throughout plan implementation, and interim lessons
would be incorporated as appropriate. Evaluation would be on sociological,
ecological, economic and financial criteria. If justified by subproject
results, plans would be prepared for continuation of sub-catchment management
and for expansion of a similar process into other parts of the watershed.
(D)     Trainina.  Subproject activities would include training for local
residents in improved lani management practices, and for KVDA and district
staff in techniques of land management planning and land rehabilitation.
Training would take place through extension and short-term courses for local
residents, and through working with technical experts and short courses for
KVDA and district staff. Training would be intended to prepare KVDA and
district staff to carry on eventually with similar activities and projects.
(E)     Technical Assistance.  Since neither KVDA nor district staff would
have sufficient technical expertise nor capacity to undertake this subproject
on their own, technical assistants would be employed to provide project
management and apecialized skills. Technical Assistants would include a
project manager and several field supervisors and foremen. In addition,
short-term consultants would be engaged for particular specialities. In all
cases, the technical assistance would emphasize on-the-job training of KVDA
and district staff.



- 61 -
IV.     ESTIMATED COSTS
10.     Subproject costs are currently estimated at KSh 60.5 million (1988
constant prices); and KSh 74.9 million (including contingencies).
11.     Of this amount, technical assistance in all forms would cost an
estimated KSh 8.2 million and direct costs of training (apart from salaries of
Technical Assistants and staff involved) would be an estimated KSh 680,000.
Summary subproject costs according to expenditure category are given in the
preliminary cost table prepared for this subproject. TORs for this TA will be
included in the draft Implementation Report under preparation.
V.      IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
12.     The Kerio Valley Development Authority -- an autonomous organization
within the Ministry of Regional Development -- would be the subproject
executing agency. KVDA would designate a subproject coordinator who would be
responsible for carrying out the day-to-day work. All project activities
would be carried out in close collaboration with the West Pokot District
development office, in accordance with the Government's District Focus
development policy. Subproject design and execution would be guided by a
Steering Committee chaired by the KVDA officer administering the subproject
and including district officers, staff of the Netherlands government's arid
and semi-arid lands project, and representative of area residents. The
Steering Committee also would coordinate participation of other government
agencies, local residents and other organizations.  Subproject activities
would be managed by a project executive and assistant technicians employed on
contraet as Technical Assistants. To the maximum extent possible, Technical
Assistants would work in close cooperation with KVDA staff and district
officers in order to accomplish complementary work and achieve effective
training. The District Officers would play a key role in involving the
beneficiaries in the design and implementation of project activities.
VI.     POTENTIAL BENEFITS AND RISKS
13.     The princiRal potential benefit of the subproject would be increased
livestock and agricultural productivity of the area, resulting in a more
stable and higher living standard for the local people. An estimated 2,000
peopie reside in the subproject area. Much of the Suam River catchment,
including areas with the worst erosion, has sufficient rainfall to potentially
support perennial grassland; establishment of good grass cover would greatly
increase the livestock carrying capacity of the region. Improvement in water
supplies also would benefit livestock husbandry, and control of erosion and
sedimentation would benefit crop agriculture through increased yields. The
potential for increased productivity in the region, however, is limited by the
only moderately suitable soils and marginal rainfall most places.
14.     A secondary potential economic benefit would be extension of the
productive life span of the Turkwel Gorge power project by reduced
sedimentation of the reservoir. Only a small part of the total catchment
would be treated by the subproject, so effects necessarily WOUld be smaii.
However, success at erosion control could lead to expansion of similar
techniques. No monetary estimate of the benefits from extending the life of
the reservoir are available, but they are likely to be significant. Current
estimates suggest the reservoir would have a life of nearly 100 years with
current sedimentation rates but also suggest that sedimentation is
increaain2. Net annual increases of 1-2% in sedimentation rates would begin



- 62 -
to reduce firm energy production after 50-75 years, with subsequent rapid decline.
An increase of 3Z is considered conceivable and would produce an even shorter life.
The height of the dam was raised from the original design to provide greater
storage capacity; catchment management appears to only remaining method of reducing
sedimentation effects.   Beneficiaries of extended reservoir life would include
Kenyan electricity consumers receiving in the future a longer outturn of power from
the Turkwel project at a lower cost than alternative sources.
15.     Main Risks.  Potential risks are of several types, and the project has
introduced various measures to offset the possible adverse effects.  Technical
risks include considerable uncertainty about developing cost-effective technical
solutions to semi-arid land degradation that also would be adopted by residents
as permanent components of land use systems. A contributing problem is expected
to be considerable difficulty in getting meaningful public participation in
subproject planning and implementation, without which sustained improvement in land
use practices is unlikely. A related risk is the social and political sensitivity
of land use controls such as might be needed for effective catchment
rehabilitation. A further technical risk is the difficulty of adequately measuring
changes  in erosion and land ecological conditions.   Institutional risks are
expected to include difficulties in coordination and close cooperation among
numerous government agencies, uncertainty about the effectiveness of the steering
committee structure in overseeing and guiding the subproject, lack of experience
with land use planning, and constraints of government procurement and expenditure
processes.
VII.    MAIN ISSUES
16.     The main issue to resolve is to include the project's required funds in
the forward budget estimates for the period 1989/90 - 1991/92 and the corresponding
annual budget estimates (budgetary allocation to the Kerio Valley Development
Authority). In order to enable completion of detailed planning activities during
1983/89, there is also a need to provide some funds in the supplementary budget
of 1988/89, at least to enable detailed planning activities. The main issues tc
be resolved during implementation are identified above in the discussion of risks.
The subproject's monitoring and evaluation component would be a key instrument for
helping to resolve such issues as they arise for quantifying the project's benefits
and for determining the merits of an expanded follow-up phase.
VIII    NEXT STEPS AND PLAN OF ACTION
17.     In order to enable early start-up of project activities, the nexc steps
should be taken under the overall lead of the Kerio Valley Development Authority:
(i)   KVDA prepare draft Implementation
Report;                                      November 1, 1988
(ii)  XVDA -o appoint subproject coordinator
(in interim, acting coordinator is
working);                                    By December 1, 1988
(iii) UThA to prepart d.&ft T-. for-
consultants; and to submit to IDA
for review and comment;                      By December 15, 1988



- 63 -
(iv)   KVDA, in collaboration with District
Officers, presented subproject
to the West Pokot DDC and
secdred participation
(includinb decision to establish
Steering Committee);                        By November 15, 1988
(v)    Complete field visits to obtain
necessary information to update
draft Implementation Report and to
secure views and cooperation of
local beneficiaries;                        By December 15, 1988
(vi)   KVDA to update IR, including cost
estimates, and to submit to IDA
for review and comment;                     By February 1, 1989
(vii)  Subproject coordinator, to work out
administrative arrangements to
transfer project funds to the West
Pokot District to cover their
operating expenses during detailed
preparation;                                By March 1, 1989
(viii) KVDA to carry out detailed design
and costing of land management
component;                                  By Dec 1988-Hay 1989.



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
KENYA - RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SUBPROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.      Wildlife is an economically important resource in many of Kenya's
rural areas. Wild animals are a principal attraction of Kenya's major tourism
industry, valuable to the country for the foreign exchange earned (a record KR
247 million in 1986) and the jobs provided. Outside parks and reserves
wildlife also have significant economic impacts. both positive and negative.
Much wildlife lives outside protected areas at least part of the year,
particularly in wet-season dispersal areas in the semi-arid regions. Here
wildlife can be economically beneficial by supporting tourism on private land
and helping maintain grass in good condition for livestock, but they also can
produce costs for local residents by competing for grazing, harming livestock
and damaging crops.
2.      Over recent decades wildlife numbers and range have been progressively
reduced. A major cause has been habitat loss due to expanding land use by
Kenya's rapidly growing human population. For some species, particularly
those with valuable by-products such as rhinoceros and elephants, illegal
hunting has been the principal cause. While wildlife-based tourism has
expanded during this period the condition of most parks and reserves has
deteriorated, threatening the future productivity of the sector. Outside
parks and reserves conflicts between wildlife and human land use have
increased. Rural residents in these areas rarely receive economic benefits
from the wildlife that share their land and little is done to reduce their
direct and opportunity costs from wildlife.
3.      A comprehensive rural development strategy for Kenya should include
improved wildlife and tourism management, to both protect and further develop
these highly productive resources. It is anticipated that Government's
development strategy now being prepared for arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL) will
stress this. Provided government on all levels demonstrates a strong
commitment to sound wildli - and tourism planning and management, the Bank
would consider assistance through helping prepare and finance a larger
wildlife and tourism project to build on the anticipated results of this
subproject. An essential element is strengthened management of parks and
reserves, including rehabilitation of deteriorating infrastructure and better
integration with surrounding land uses. Improved wildlife management also
must include the participation and cooperation of rural residents in wildlife
areas. Development programs to increase benefits and reduce costs to rural
people from wildlife would have complementary effects: (1) providing
incentives for wildlife protection, thereby sustaining the current economic
productivity of parks and reserves; (2) increasing overall productivity
through expanded tourism on private lands; and, (3) more equitably
distributing benefits in relation to costs incurred.
4.      The Kenya Department of Wildlife Conservation and Management in the
Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife manages wildlife throughout the country and
has principal responsibility for management and development of protected areas
(local government county councils directly manage some National Reserves). A
aeriem of recent moves to strenathen the department indicates a growing



- 65 -
commitment by government to deal with management problems.   Support to the
department is urgently needed to support reforms and help overcome constraints to
analysis, planning and innovative management activities so as to counteract
wildlife and habital declines.
5.      The proposed subproject would focus on three aspects of the broad issue.
It would test methods of both enhancing wildlife benefits and reducing costs to
rural residents in wildlife areas adjacent to national parks and reserves. It also
would seek to develop methods to better integrate protected area management with
surrounding land uses.
6.      Increase in benefits would be achieved by providing community facilities
and services on private and communal land near parks and reserves, and by assisting
with development of tourist facilities on these lands.  Reduced costs would be
achieved by helping protect crops and property from wildlife damage. Innovative
park and reserve management efforts would concentrate on finding ways to
accommodate other land uses around protected areas without damage to wildlife and
habitats, and ways of improving relations with surrounding residents.
7.      Subproject activities xwould be planned and carried out by the Wildlife
Department in close cooperation with local county councils and land owners; in some
instances county councils might execute activities.  The subproject would operate
in and around several parks or reserves, each representing a different mixture of
management problems.  The subproject would operate in and around a few Parks or
Reserves, but as a first phase of a proposed longer term program, the subproject
cannot address the many different mixtures of management problems existing in
Kenyan Parks and Reserves.   Moreover, the Ministry's staff availability and
resources also pose limitations in embarking in many areas. Activities will be
phased and concentrated on four target areas. Amboseli National Park, Maasai Mara
National Reserve, Tana River National Reserve and Samburu/Buffalo National Reserves
have been tentatively identified as the areas where action is most urgently needed.
In   some   areas   other   government   agencies,   multi-lateral   donors   and
conservation-oriented  non-governmental  organizations  are  pursuing  related
objectives; complementary programs would be established with these organizations.
Detailed subproject planning would include involvement of local people and their
representatives in identifying problems and selecting subproject activities.
8.      Subproject activities would touch on only a portion of the problems around
just four of 20-25 major parks and reserves in Kenya.   It is intended that
approaches found to be successful would be expanded in the subproject sites and
extended to other problem areas around Kenya. Proposed activities would directly
contribute to a proposed larger wildlife and tourism project currently being
prepared by the Bank and Government, by: (a) testing promising approaches; (b)
developing greater institutional capabilities in the wildlife department and county
councils; and, (c) providing an instrument for initiating broad policy review and
reform such as could be supported by this possible future project.   It is
anticipated that activities of the sub project and the follow-on larger project
would contribute to implementing a portion of Kenya's ASAL development strategy
now under development.
II.     OBJECTIVES
9.      The overall objective of the subproject would be to develop improved ways
of increasing and more equitably distributing the economic benefits of wildlife
and wildlife areas while conserving wildlife populations and



- 66 -
protecting the ecological integrity of wildlife areas. SDecific objectives
would be to develop and test improved ways to accomplish the following:
(a)   Increase tourism benefits to residents of wildlife dispersal
areas around parks and reserves.
(b)   Reduce costs from wildlife to the agriculture and property of
residents in these areas.
(c)   Manage parks and reserves to better protect wildlife and
habitats and better provlde for the needs of neighboring people.
III.    COMPONENTS
10.     Components of the subproject would be the following:
(i)   Community Facilities and Services.  The subproject would
construct community facilities and establish services on group ranches
and county council trust lands around the four target parks and
reserves. A phased program of activities will be carried out. An
objective would be to provide fairly equitable assistance to all land
owners or groups of residents. The particular facilities and services
provided would vary between area, depending on local needs, and would
be identified through a process involving local residents and their
representatives. Where other agencies are engaged in related
projects, close cooperation and complementary activities would be
achieved through coordination by the Wildlife Department and the
county council. Facilities under consideration include health
clinics, water supplies, access roads, schools, sanitary facilities,
and cultural centers (for marketing products to tourists). In
addition, simple tourist accommodations (cottages and camp-site
facilities) might be provided on some group ranches to demonstrate the
direct revenue-earning potential of tourism to land owners. Services
under consideration including providing training and education in
wildlife and tourism management and associated technical fields.
(ii) Wildlife Damage Reduction. The subproject would seek to improve
methods of reducing wildlife damage to crops and private property by
strengthening the Wildlife Department's extension services to farmers
and land owners, and by funding structures such as electric fences and
barrier ditches. Specific activities would vary between area and
would be determined and coordinated with related projects as discussed
above for community facilities and services.
Oiii) Park/Reserve Management. The subproject would promote improved
management of parks and reserves and their adjacent areas to better
integrate them with surrounding land uses, by supporting comprehensive
planning of target areas. Planning would include: (1) detailed
ecological, economic, land use and land capability studies of the park
or reserve unit and its surrounding area; (2) formulation and
evaluation of options for management; (3) review of management options
by all interested groups; (4) selection of an overall management
program and preparation of a detailed plan; and, (5) implementation of
the plan through coordinated management of the park or reserve and the
surrounding area. This approach would be innovative in numerous
respects, including:



- 67 -
(a)   Once finalized, the plans would be incended to represent the
policy of those authorities with management responsibilities
(e.g., park/reserve wardens and county councils). This would be
achieved by having these authorities fully participate in
preparation of the plaas, resolution of issues and selection of
the final management programs. It would be expressed by their
explicit adoption of the plans as their management policy.
(b)   The plans would be prepared with continuing participation of
local people in issue identification, design and evaluation of
management options, selection of final management plan, and
periodic plan review and updating.
A key feature of innovative park/reserve management would be to
identify existing constraints on agriculture or livestock husbandry
that may be causing people to put pressure on the park or reserve, and
then to attempt to reduce those constraints. This may lead to
non-traditional wildlife management activities such as providing water
supplies for livestock excluded from a park, or helping stabilize and
increase crop yields from permanent plots so shifting cultivation in
forest areas is not necessary. Cooperation with district agricultural
and livestock officers would be essential in these activities.
Preparation of management plans would take approximately two years.
Revision of plans where they exist would take approximately one year.
The rest of the three year subproject period would involve
Implementation and testing of the plans. Vehicles and other equipment
necessary for management activities, and vehicle operating costs,
would be provided under the subproject.
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring would be established to
initially measure baseline conditions and continue to measure effects
of subproject activities by a variety of ecological, economic,
financial, and social and cultural criteria. Success would be
evaluated by a combination of these measures. Broadly, ecological
conditions would indicate effectiveness in protecting wildlife and
habitats, economic analysis would evaluate scale and distribution of
benefits and costs, financial analysis would indicate
cost-effectiveness and return on investments, and social and cultural
criteria would evaluate acceptability and broader implications of
activities. Monitoring of project activities during subproject
implementation would be intended to identify necessary adjustments.
Final evaluation would be the basis for designing continuation or
modifications of the program in the proposed subsequent project.
(v)   Trainina.  Training would include: (1) on-the-job instruction
and short courses for Wildlife Department and county council staff in
specialized tasks such as economic and financial analysis, park
planning, facilities planning, and wildlife management extension; (2)
extension activities and public workshops for rural residents to
enhance public understanding of subproject activities -- particularly
the link between community facilities provided and desired
improvements in land management, understanding of wildlife management
and tourism in general, and techniques of damage control; and, (3)
technical training for local residents to prepare them for employment
in tourism and wildlife management fields.



- 68 -
(vi)  Technical Assistance.  Technical assistance would be used in the
subproject to provide specialized training of Wildlife Department and
county council staff, to help design and initiate programs, and to carry
out specialized analyses. It is not intended that Technical Assistants
would directly conduct .4g4firant pnrtt4n"n  of nrograms.   Technical
Assistants would be employed principally on short-term contracts. It is
anticipated that Technical Assistants would be engaged in the fields of
natural resource economics, land use or park planning, and facilities
design; assistance also might be required for agricultural, livestock
management and sociological work and in other activities.
IV.     ESTIMATED COSTS
11.     Subproject costs for the above components, but presented according to the
four parks and headquarters, are currently estimated as follows:
KSh         Z of Base
(Million)   Costs
(i)    Mara                                         11.3       18.0
(ii)    Amboseli                                    13.8       22.0
(iii)   Samburu/Isiolo                              15.1       24.0
(iv)    Tana River                                  13.2       21.0
(v)     Headquarters                                 9.4       15.0
Total Base Costs                            62.8      100.0
(1988 constant prices)
Physical & Price Contingencies              13.4       21.3
TOTAL COSTS                                 76.2      121.3
(or US$ 3.5 million eauivalent)
12.     Technical assistance (mostly short-term inputs) would cost an estimated
KSh 2.3 million (including contingencies). Direct costs of training (not including
salaries of Technical Assistants and staff involved) would be an estimate KSh 3.1
million.  The supporting details to the figures have been worked out, and are
subject to further refinement. The draft Iiplementatio.i Report for the subproject
would include draft TOR for the consultants and the main elements of the training
program.
V.      IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS AND PHASING
13.     The subproject would be under the responsibility of the Department of
Wildlife Conservation and Management. Day to day management of project activities
would be carried out by a senior officer who would be the subproject coordinator,
appointed by the Director of the Department. In some target areas, county councils
-- local authorities under the Ministry for Local Government -- also may have
responsibility for implementation of certain activities. Other agencies may have
a role, such as the National Museums in helping prepare management plans for
particular reserves, and NGO's in providing technical assistance. The Department
Director would have responsibility for establishing necessary cooperative relations
with these other organizations. Within the Wildlife Department, most subproject
activities would be carried out by members of a proiect task force, composed of
staff from the Wildlife Planning Unit, the Research Division, other



- 69 -
branches, and the Ministry. Task force members would work with park and district
wardens, other Department staff, cooperating agencies and local inhabitants of the
subproject areas.
14.     The project activities will be phased as follows: during 1989/90, project
actions will be initiated in Amboseli and Samburu game parks; during 1990/91,
subproject actions would be carried out in Mara and in Tana. Start-up in Tana is
subject to satisfactory progress in carrying out the subproject activities in
Amboseli and Samburu. Towards the end of FY90, this assessme~nt will be carried
out cn a joint basis by the MTW and IDA.
VI.     POTENTIAL BENEFITS AND RISKS
15.     Potential benefits would be of three kinds:
(i)   Increased economic benefits from wildlife and tourism, from:
(1)   Sustaining, and possibly increasing, current tourism revenues that
otherwise might decline with deterioration of wildlife resources
and park facilities.
(2)   Additional revenues from expansion of productive activities at
additional sites on county council or private land.
(3)   Reduction in private costs from wildlife damage.
(ii) More equitable distribution of economic benefits of wildlife by
increasing benefits to rural residents who bear costs of supporting
wildlife.
(iii) Strengthened conservation of wildlife and their habitats, by improved
park/reserve management and by increased incentives to rural residents to
protect wildlife. Wildlife and wildland conservation has, in addition to
economic benefits, sigr-ificant ecological, scientific, aesthetic and moral
values.
16.     Risks of several types are involved in the subproject, including:
(i)   Technical  risks,  resulting  from  incomplete  knowledge  (e.g.,
ecological needs of wildlife), difficulties in compatibly managing wildlife
and livestock together, difficulties in finding successful ways of
transferring wildlife and tourism benefits to rural residents, and
difficulties in conducting comprehensive park planning particularly
achieving meaningful public participation.
(ii) Institutional risks, resulting from the difficulties of multiple
organizations cooperating in planning and management, the uncertainties
of overcoming past managerial problems in the various organizations, and
the possibility of delays in procurement and contracting.
(iii) Policy-related risks, including the political sensitivity of land-use
controls, such as might be called for in integrating park/reserve
management with other land uses, and the pressures on parks and reserves
for conversion to other uses.



- 70 -
(iv) Fconomic risks, including the uncertainty inherent in assuming future
tourism demand, and the uncertainty of achieving adequate transfel of
wildlife and tourism benefits to offset direct and opportunity costs.
(v)   Security risks whicb are present in some su.iproject target areas
where activities might be temporarily disrupted.
The detailed preparation work carried out during 1988/89 would identify
measures to address the above risks.
VII.    MAIN ISSUES
17.     The main issue to resolve is to include the subproject's required funds
in the final forward budget estimates for the period 1989/90 - 1991/92 and the
corresponding annual budget estimates (budgetary allocation to the Department of
Wildlife). To the extent existing resources from the Department of Wildlife are
available, detailed planning activities would be carried out during 1988/89.  The
main issues to be resolved during implementation are identified above in the
discussion of risks. The subproject's monitoring and evaluation component would
be a key instrument for helping to resolve such issues as they arise, and to help
reduce the adverse effects of the risks outlined above.
VIII.   NEXT STEPS AND PLAN OF ACTION
18.     In order to enable early start-up of project activities, the next steps
should be taken over the next six months under the overall lead of the Director,
Wildlife Department and the subproject task force:
(i)   Dept. Wildlife appointed subproject
coordinator;                                         November 15, 1988;
(ii) Subproject Task Force to draft TOR
for short term consultants;                          By January 30, 1989;
(iii) Task Force to obtain additional field data
to update IR, (including inputs from local
inhabitants to determine community facilities
and essential activities to be supported in
first year of Project);                              By January 30, 1989;
(iv) Subproject Task Force to design an improved
parklreserve planning process to involve full
participation of local officials, inhabitants
and county councils, particularly to
determine priority community facilities to
include under the project;                           By January 30, 1989;
(v)   Task force to work out the specific
arrangements for coordinating project
activities among the various organizations
involved (Wildlife Department, certain county
councils, National Museums, possibly the World
Wildlife Fund);                                      By January 30, 1989;



- 71 -
(vi)  As far as possible with existiiig
resources in cooperation with other
organizations already active in
subproject areas, task force to initiate
the process of identifying community
facilities and services to be provided
under the subproject and begin to
comprehensively plan for improved management.        By January 30, 1989;
(vii) Design arrangements to ensure that
county councils or group ranches would
provide recurrent financing for community
facility constructed under the subproject.           By January 30, 1989;
(viii) Task Force to update IR and to
submit to IDA for review and comment.                By February 15, 1989;
(ix) Start-up of Subproject Actions
in Amboseli and Samburu                              By July 1, 1989;
(x)   Joint review of progress in
Amboseli and Samburu                                 By March 1, 1989;
(xi) Start-up of subproject activities
in Mara and Tana (with Tana subject
to the favourable outcome of review under
item x)                                              By July 1, 1989.



- 72 -
ANNEX 1
RURAL SERVICE DESIGN PROJECT
RURAL OIL-PROTEIN PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.      The following points provide the background and the rationale for the Rural
Oil-Protein Production and Processing subproject2
-     Kenya imports considerable amounts of oils and fats for which about
US$ 60 - 80 millon are spent annually, because local production is
insufficient to satisfy existing demand;
-     the increased dependency on imports of vegetable oils also force the
importation of protein cakes, the co-product of the vegetable oil
industry, to satisfy the growing demand for animal feed;
-     the country needs to take the necessary steps to promote the
production of oilseeds in order to make a major contribution to
national food and feed security;
-     while the high potential areas of the country have ecological
conditions for the production of oilseeds, their production -as
single stands during the long rains- is not recommended because
higher income generating crops -either as staples or for exports-
are already being cultivated;
there are extensive marginal areas where the precipitation is not
sufficient throughout the years to consistently grow most crops but,
where a number of oilcrops requiring little water could accomplish
satisfactory results;
it is in those marginal areas where the lowest income farmers and
pastoralists live and where the new generation of people from the
productive highlands are moving due to the scarcity of land caused
by population growth and inheritance subdivision;
the short cycle oilseeds could also play an important complementary
role -in association with existing crops or during fallow periods-
as a way to intensify production in the farms of reduced size;
a significant proportion of the demand for edible oils is in rural
areas where 80S of the population lives;
at present the limited amount of oilseeds being produced locally have
to be sent to the main urban centers for processing and the final
product trausported back to the rural areas for consumption;



- 73 -
the producer/consumer of oilseeds/edible oils has to pay not
only for the cost of processing but, also, for the cost of
transportation back and forth by either receiving a lower price
for the raw material or paying a higher price for the end
product or bothI
if the producer of oilseeds also has livestock, as many of them
do, the same situation applies to the protein cake where due to
the lower price per unit of weight the hauling cost becomes
proportionally more expensive to the point that many producers
can not afford to use supplementary feeding for their animals;
and
past efforts to promote oilerops have not succeeded in
generating a viable and sustained approach to the development of
the industry because they have overlooked, disregarded or not
given due consideration to one or more of such factors as the
oilseeds capability to grow utilizing low input levels in
marginal lands or as a complement of existing crops, the
importance of the cakes as sources of protein for animal feeds,
and the processing potential in the rural areas to satisfy local
demand and to provide crude oil for refining to the plants
located in urban centers.
II,     THE SUBPROJECT
A.      Obiectives and DescriDtion
2.      The general objective of the project is to promote the economic
cultivation of oilseeds and its rural processing to satisfy the local demand
for edible oils and protein cake and, reduce the utilization of foreign
exchange to import those commodities.
3.      Specifically, the subproject will:
-     identify suitable machinery, test in the laboratory, select for
local manufacture, prove at the field level and promote its
broad use for the on-farm and/or trading center level processing
of locally produced oilseeds;
-     support oilerops production research and extension leading to
the eventual generation and dissemination of low input
technology for the production of oilseeds in the marginal areas
of the country were other crops do not grow successfully and, as
complement of existing crops either in association with them or
in fallow lands; and
-     utilize a model of the vegetable oil-protein system in Kenya,
being presently developed by seven groups of Kenyan researchers
under the coordination of Egerton University with the financial
support of the International Develhpment Research Centre, to
identify key research and policy interventions that could lead
to the removal of constrains to local oilseed production and
processing for the local consumption of edible oils and protein
cakes.



- 74 -
B.      Comnonents
4.      Initially the subproject will have two main components Rural
Processing and Oilcrops Production Research and Extension. They have been
identified as the primary constraints to the effective promotion of oilseeds
in the country. Other components, such as pricing and import policies, are
expected in the future as a result of the work being done to identify key
intervention points. The results of these activities, to the extent possible,
will be coordinated with the subproject during its implementation. This will
enhance the benefits of the subproject.
C.      Innovative Features
5.      The innovative features of this subproject are:
-     to clearly specify from the outset that the agricultural
technology to be develop, adjusted and disseminated for the
production of oilseed must be: low input and directed to the
marginal areas where other crops can not grow satisfactorily or
associated with existing crops in multicropping arrangements,
relay cropping or rotation where the oilseeds complement the
results of the other crops without competing with them;
:-    to promote the processing of oilseeds at the rural level with
the purpose of satisfying local needs by direct home
consumption, increasing the availability of protein cake for
livestock production and, eventually, sell the surplus to the
axisting industry for further processing (refining, bleaching,
deodorizing, hydrogenation, packing, etc);
-     to use a comprehensive descriptive model of the whole industry,
already being developed, for the identification of key
intervention points leading to the integrated development of the
sector;
-     to foster the interaction and the professional synergism between
the Ministry the Agriculture and Egerton University, one of the
leading agricultural education institutions in the country; and
-     to follow an "incremental" approach to decision-making and
implementation by which successive steps will be undertaken
within a flexible framework to identify and remove constraints
leading to the promotion of the vegetable oil-protein system.
The decisions regarding next actions will be taken based on
immediate past experience through an iterative process between
reality, conceptualization, field testing and action.
D.      Estimated Costs and Financing
6.      Rough cost estimates for the four year subproject are set at about KSh
54.7 millon, (mid-1988 constant prices), or KSh 64.9 million, including
contingencies. Only KSh 1.0 million is expected to be required during 1988/89
to enable completion of detailed preparation work and to enable project
start-up by July 1989. Although no specific budget allocation has been made,
it is anticipated that this small sum of funds could be provided by the
Ministry of Agriculture as part of its allocation for project studies or from
tha Aarirultural Sector Manaeement Prolect (IDA financed).



- 75 -
7.      It is foreseen that the subproject will effectively take off with
expenditures of about KSh 37.0 million (including contingencies) during
1989/90 fiscal year with the necessary budgetary allocations reflected in the
forward budget (1989/90 - 91/92), and the annual budgets, beginning in
1989/90. Since most of the investment costs in machinery to be tested,
laboratory equipment for the chemical analysis of the seeds and vehicles will
be made during 1989/89, it is anticipated that the requirements for 1990/91
and 1991/92 will be at the level of about KSh 15 million per year.
E.      Implementation Arrangements
8.      The Ministry of Agriculture will have overall responsibility over the
subproject which will be included in its development budget. The Crop
Development Division will provide dayto-day coordination, under the
responsibility of a senior officer designated as Subproject Coordinator. A
Subproject Steering Committee chaired by the Department of Agriculture
(chaired by the Director), with members from the Ministries of Agriculture,
Livestock Development, Industry and KARI, will provide guidance and general
supervision to the subproject.
9.      The research part of the oilerops production research component will
be implemented by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), the
parastatal organization which has the mandate for research coordination in the
country. Since the new organizational arrangements for KARI are just
beginning, thus KARI has not prepared its commodity program for oilseeds or
made adequate budget allocations for this crop. Therefore, the subproject will
provide some initial "seed" funds to help KARI focus on this strategic crop
now rather than later. The development of technology will be carried out in
the various experimental stations located in the main potential producing
areas of the country. Its generation will be achieved through the interaction
of plant breeders, agronomists, pathologists, entomologists, socio-economists,
etc. and it will be adapted to farmers conditions by way of on-farm trials.
The National Plant Breeding Station at Njoro will exercise overall
coordination of the research component. The project will need to establish a
clear coordinating arrangement (including channelling of subproject funds, as
necessary) with KARI on the research component.
10.     The extension part of the oil crops production component will be
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture. The development of extension
package will be the responsibility of Crops Development Division, while the
dissemination of the package will be implemented by the Agricultural Extension
and Services Division, which has the responsibility for agricultural extension
in the country. No additional or especial extension personnel is suggested
under the subproject. The subproject will promote linkages between the
extension officers and KARI researchers. It is expected that KARI will help
train existing extension personnel located in those ecological areas with
greater potential for oilseed growing in oilcrops cultivation and the latest
technologies being generated for dissemination. It is also expected that a
close collaboration between the extension and KARI personnel would be
developed to facilitate the identification of constraints to oilcrops
production.
11.     The subproject's main component, rural processing, will be implemented
by the Agricultural Engineering Division, Rural Technology Unit. It would
establish and maintain close collaboration with the Kenya Industrial Research
Development Institute and Egerton University, who are currently developing



- 76 -
suitable technology for oilseeds. The University, through the Division of
Research and Extension provides a unique setup and experience for supporting
the project. The Departments of Agricultural Engineering, Home Economics,
Animal Science (Nutrition) and Agricultural Economics will be involved in
testing the relevant specific aspects of processing and product/by-product
utilization. KIRDI will complement the work at Egerton by providing the
technical know-how and the facilities to test engineering parameters and
eventually promote local manufacture.
12.     If the experimental introduction of rural oilseeds processing proves
economically and technically viable to the rural community, the institutional
arrangements for full dissemination and distribution will be based in the
adoption modalities preferred by the rural population, using the existing
extension system of the Ministry of Agriculture.
F.      Potential Benefits and Risk
13.     There are several potential benefits to be obtained from the
successful implementation of this subproject and the acceptance of oilseeds
production and processing as a viable enterprise at the rural level, all of
them in clear harmony with the objectives of The Government. The development
of the vegetable oil-protein system could: reduce the requirements of foreign
exchange for the importation of edible oils and protein cake helping the
balance of payment situation; generate rural employment by increasing the area
cultivated with oilcrops, intensification of production and on-farm and/or
trading center level processing; increase farm income by reducing cash outlays
to purchase edible oils and protein cakes and as a result of higher
employment; maintain the rural-urban balance by promoting rural
industrialization.
14.     On the other hand, the subproject has its risk because, several other
initiatives have been implemented to promote the development of the industry
without too much success. It is expected that by following an incremental
approach to research and implementation those risks will be minimized because
decisions to commit more resources to implementation will be made after
carefully analysis of past performance of an improved approach. Moreover, the
subproject aims to identify and work out practicable solutions under field
conditions and a flexible framework through adjusting its activities to the
local conditions and the requirements of the rural communities.
15.     No conditionalities are linked to this project.  No changes of
Governmental Policy are required to start implementing this subproject.
16.     It is anticipated that the definition and analysis of the vegetable
oil/protein system model currently being developed under the overall
coordination of Egerton University will identify key research and policy
interventions which could facilitate the development of the industry. It will
be the Government prerogative to decide on them after careful examination of
their implications and impact.
17.     As it was described above, the subproject has two components: oilcrops
production research and extension and rural processing. It has been proposed
that the first one be implemented by KARI and the Ministry of Agriculture
following their mandate as the institutions responsible for agricultural
research and extension in the country. It has been agreed that the second
component, rural processing, be implemented by the Agricultural Engineering



- 77 -
Division. The specific institutional arrangements for implementation of project
actions will need to be worked out and agreed amongst the participating agencies
as part of detailed preparation over the next few months.
IV.     NEXT STEPS AND PLAN OF ACTION
18.     MOA would take the following steps to complete detailed preparation of the
subproject:
Target Date(s;
(i) MOA to designate senior officer
as Subproject Coordinator
(in the interim, an acting
coordinate,r is working);                          By November 30, 1988
(ii) Subproject areas to be selected
and visited to gather essential
planning information;                              By December 15, i988
(iii) Institutional and financial arrangements
with collaborating agencies/units (KARI,
Extension, Industrial Crops, Planning)
to be formulated and agreed (at
least, in principle);                             By December 15, 1988
(iv) Subproject Coordinator to update
Impleivmtation Report and to
submit to IDA for review and
comment;                                          By February 1, 1989
(v)   Coordinator to arrange selection,
purchasing and laboratory testing
of oilseeds processing machinery
(assumes MOA provides funds during                Begin testing
1988/89);                                         By March 15, 1989
(vi) Additional field visits for
completing detailed preparation
work;                                             By April - June 1989.



- 78 -
ANNEX 1
KENYA - RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
14ONITORING AND EVALUATION OF THE IMPACT OF
AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES (MEARDS)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
I.      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
1.1     The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the implementation and
effectiveness of Government's agricultural and rural development is an
essential component of a well-managed development planning process. The need
for M & E arises for a number of reasons: to understand whether past policies
have in fact been implemented; to understand why outcomes of past policies and
investments are different from those expected; and to provide an understanding
of the functioning of the rural and agricultural sectors which will permit
improved strategy and policy design in future.
1.2     To date no effective M & E system exists with respect to agricultural
and rural development strategy. Although significant data collection systems
exist in both the line ministries and the Ministry of Planning and National
Development (MPND) there is no organized structure within which the
information available is brought to bear on the key requirement for the
assessment and refinement and adjustment of Government's policies.
1.3     The Government's strategy of District Focus for Rural Development is
also generating substantial volumes of information both locally and
centrally. There is a need to define how this information, in summarized
form, should be brought to bear on the design of rural development strategies.
1.4     As a first step towards establishing an M & E system for agricultural
and rural development strategies the MPND has formulated a framework for an M
& E system which defines the concepts of monitoring and evaluation activities
required, identifies key indicators for the implementation, effects and impact
of %'Jor Government strategies, and maps out the role of institutions in
in.1omation collection, processing, analysis and reporting.  Three le els of
institution will be involved - at the district level, in the line ministries,
and in the MPND.
1.5     Tne MEARDS subproject is designed to support the implementation of the
M&E system managed by the MPND through the provision of operating funds,
equipment, tecbnical support and training.
II.     THE SUBEPROJECT
A.      Obiectives
2.1     The overall objective of the subproject ic to help support
implementation of a system for monitoring and evaluation of the impact of
agricultural and rural development strategies. A long term objective is to
help institutionalize Kenya's capacity to assess and refine its agricultural
strategies and investment programs. Specific aims of the subproject are:
(i) to establish an effective M & E system of agricultural policies,
aetataa4aa anvd 1nveRtment nrograms which would:



- 79 -
streamline the collection and transmission of information
relating to district level projects and programmes;
assist in developing analytical capability in the line
ministries concerned with agricultural and rural
development;
improve the flow of analysis and evaluation findings
relating to the implementation and effectiveness of
agricultural and rural development strategies to planners
in the MPND;
-     develop the capability for analysis of the impact of
agricultural and rural development strategies in the MPND;
-     assist in relating the development activities at programme
and subprogram level to stated national goals; and
(ii) to carryout the impact evaluation of the subprojects included
under the project. If successful, MPND, could in the future
phase expand its impact evaluation work to include other
projects.
B.      SubDrolect Components
2.2     The components of the subproject are based on the categories of
monitoring and evaluation activity defined for implementation of the M & E
framework developed by the MPND.
(a)     Implementation Monitoring
Under this component the subproject will assist the development of
systems for monitoring the implementation of projects, programmes and
policies falling under Government's agricultural and rural development
strategies. Since this activity relates to low level monitoring by
operational units, the main inputs of the project will be the
provision of material and training to district level offices of the
line ministries and to activities of the District Development Officers.
(b)     Monitoring the Indicators of the Effects of Strategies
Evaluation of the effects of programs end strategies is only possible
if appropriate information is collected on indicators of the program
effects. To a very large extent the basic information required for
the monitoring of indicators of effect are already being collected,
either by the Central Bureau of Statistics or within systems
established and operated by the line ministries. This component will
concentrate on ensuring that data which is collected is processed,
consolidated and transmitted in forms which allow it to be used
effectively for evaluation purposes. This will mosW'y be achieved by
in-service training programs tailored to meet the requirements of
individual information systems operated by the line ministries.
Priority areas within the agricultural sector will include the
reporting systems of the Inputs Unit (MOA), and prooessing of the NCPB
Maize Yield Survey.



- 80 -
(c)     Monitoring the Indicators of Imnact
Information on indicators required for impact assessment will be
derived from two main sources: the district administration (for data
relating to public service provision and rural infrastructure) and
from surveys (especially social indicator and employment survey)
conducted on the National Sample Frame by the CBS. This component
will provide resources to improve the timeliness and coverage of these
systems for collecting information required for impact assessment.
(d)     Evaluation of Effects
The evaluation of the effects of programs and strategies will be
primarily located in the line ministries (and especially the Planning
Divisions of the Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock Development,
Ministry of Supplies and Marketing). This component will aim to build
on and develop existing capacity for the evaluation of Government's
strategies, including the sustained implementation of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO) and its impact assessment. Given
the problems which previous projects aimed at strengthening
institutional analytical capacity in the line ministries have
encountered, this component will use a range of i,nnovative procedures
for tackling the staffing constraint, including the use of local
University and research institutions under contract, steps to increase
the involvement and job satisfaction of able but junior graduates in
the line ministries, and possibly the direct hiring of Government
employees for specific assignments on a consultancy basis.
(e)     ImDact Assessment
Impact assessment will be undertaken for groups of programmes or
strategies as a whole, and will be conducted primarily by the MPND,
based on inputs provided by the line ministries. This component will
provide technical support and training (mainly in-service train!ng) to
staff in the MPND conducting impact assessment of Government
strategies. This component will give priority to arranging for the
impact assessment of the subprojects included under the proposed
project. The results will provide the basis for determining the
merits of expanding future phases of the subprojects.
C.      Key Features
2.3     The key feature of this subproject relates to the explicit linking of
data collection and analysis with the key strategies and programmes outlined
in the Sessional Paper and in the Plan. This is in sharp contrast to the past
patterns whereby data has to a large degree been generated without careful
attention to the use and analysis for which it will be used,
2.4     The subproject is innovative in respect of the role played by the
Ministry of Planning and National Development in stimulating feedback on the
implementation and effectiveness of programmes and policy, as distinct from
just project monitoring activities.
2.5     Thirdly the subproject will be innovative in the forms of delivery of
technical support to the line ministries, particularly for evaluaticn and



- 81 -
impact assessment - types of skill which the ministries have found
increasingly difficult to retain given the wide gap in terms of service
compared to the private sector.
Estimated Costs
2.6     The estimated costs of the subproject are about KSh 61.5 million (1988
constant prices), or KSh 75.6 million (including contingencies). These costs
exclude salaries and allowances of staff who will collaborate, but who are
already employed by the participating agencies. The subproject will run for a
period of four years, commencing July 1989. VPND plans to initiate some of
the subproject activities on a limited basis and area during 1988/89. The
essential technical assistance inputs will take the form of (a) one full time
technical assistance post for an economist experienced in policy analysis and
familiar with quantitative techniques of analysis; and (b) a second full-time
equivalent post for 4 years; (c) funds to subcontract to a local University
the impact evaluation of subprojects supported by the project. These
subproject funds will be used to hire consultants locally (and possibly
externally), primarily to support in-service M & E training activities in the
MPIID and the line ministries.
Implementation Arrangements
2.7     The MPND, Sector Planning Department (SPD), will implement the
subproject and will coordinate the application of project resources to other
levels of the planning structure, notably the district administration and the
planning divisions of the line ministries concerned. In view of the
introduction of a range of concepts relating to M&E, which will be unfamiliar
to many planners in the implementing Ministries, the implementation of the
subproject will proceed in stages, commencing with the W4& of a limited number
of programs whose success is crucial to overall plan goal achievement. In
early October 1988, a senior planning officer was designated as Subproject
Coordinator.
2.8     In order to carry out the impact evaluation of the subprojects
included under the project, the SPD will:
(a)   coordinate closely with the implementing agency the design of
the evaluation study, based on the proposals outlined in the
subproject Implementation Report;
(b)   make the necessary contractual arrangements with a suitable
local institution, which would carry out the evaluation for the
relevant subprojects. It is expected that the agency executing
the subproject will collaborate fully in this evaluation work.
Potential Benefits and Risks
2.9     The major benefits to be derived from the project are:
-     the reduction in implementation delays in both projects and
policy measures falling under agricultural and rural development
strategies which should result from a proper implementation
monitoring system;



- 82 -
-     a substantial improvement over time in the process of policy
formulation for agricultural and rural development resulting
from the improved feedback and evaluation of policies and
strategiets. This major benefit is not quantifiable;
-     strengthening the institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate
agricultural strategies and policies.
2.10    The main risks facing the project are:
-     that the MPND will have difficulty in establishing an
appropriate modus operating with the line ministries as a result
of disagreements over the appropriate location for key elements
of policy analysis;
-     that the line ministries will be unable to make significant
sustained progress in developing their capacity for analysis of
policy owing to cor.tinuing rapid staff turnover;
-     that the central concepts of M & E will not be adequately
grasped by staff charged with the implementation of the M & E
system;
=     that the CBS will have difficulty making survey data available
on a sufficiently timely basis for its application to policy
issues of current interest.
Ill.   M4AIN ISSUES
3.1     The main issues which need to be discussed and agreed before the
project starts are:
(a)   the balance between M & E activities relating to projects and
activities relating to strategies or policies. Once an
appropriate balance is achieved, agreement must be reached on
the priorities or program to be evaluated in the first two
years of the project;
(b)   the division of evaluation activities between the MPND and the
line ministries must be specified more clearly, especially with
respect to the MOA and the MOLD;
(c) agreement must be reached on acceptable forms of contracting out
of elements of the policy evaluation work, either to individuals
employed within the public service or to local institutions
(University consultancy, etc).
IV.     EXT STEPS
4.1     The following steps need to be taken for the timely start-up of the
subproject:
(a)   MPND/SPD to complete th-e draft preparatory document which sets
out the objectives, scope, data collection requirements and
institutional responsibilities within the M&E system (draft
report was already completed in early October 1988);



- 83 -
(b)   MPNDISPD to coordinate the three seminars planned for 1988 to
acquaint ministry and district level staff with the structure,
concepts and organization of the M & E system (by December 15, 1988;
2 seminars were already held);
(c)   MPND/SPD to update the draft Implementation Report and to submit to
IDA and UNDP for review and comment (by February 1, 1989);
(d)   MPND/SPD to initiate testing phase of M & E system in two districts
(by February 1, 1989);
(e)   MPND/SPD to formulate Impact Evaluation requirements for subprojects
in RSD project and to initiate steps to engage local institution to
assist in the evaluation task (June - December 1989).



- 84 -                                                  Annex 2
Table 1
RSD PROJECT
SUBPROJECTS: COSTS BY YEAR
INCLUDIN6 CONTIN6ENCIES
EXPENDITURE CATE60RY                         YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4        YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
(KSh' 000)
SNALLHOLDER LENDING                        30,792.1    39,396.5            0.0           0.0          0.0    70,190.6
RANCH LENDING                               7,362.2    25,004.8            0.0           0.0          0.0    32,366.9
DEPOSIT-TAKING                              5,607.5       9,490.8      6,489.1           0.0          0.0    21,587.4
LIVESTOCK MARKETING                              0.0    16,405.0    16,616.6    11,426.2              0.0    44,447.8
CHIP                                        6,141.9    16,289.9    17,518.1    19,172.6    18,560.5    77,682.9
BARINGO 11                                 15,382.8    24,994.1    17,830.5    16,334.3               0.0    74,541.7
SUAN REHABILITATION                              0.0    12,494.8    20,233.6    26,812.8    15,325.2    74,866.3
WILDLIFE DEVELOPMENT                             0.0    10,913.4    44,704.4    20,673.8              0.0    76,291.6
OJILSEEDS DEVELOPMENT                            0.0    36,667.5    13,235.6    14,978.5              0.0    64,981.6
HIE SUBPROJECT                              1,461.3    15,215.6    24,253.8    18,826.1    15,828.7    75,585.6
OTHER SUWPROJECT(S)                              0.0    20,474.5    27,042.6    47,439.6          2,031.7    96,988.4
TOTAL                                      66,747.7   227,348.9   187,924.3   175,664.0    51,746.0   709,430.9



-85                                                    Annex 2
RSD PROJECT
ALL SUBPROJECTS COMBINED
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE6ORY
---------------------------'Fb ------------------
(KShOOO, 1988 constant pric.t,)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                        YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                             3,605.0    17,175.8    40,010.6    32,083.9        6,033.5    99,908.9
2) Equipeent                               7,458.4    27,811.5    15,971.8    10,797.1         1,864.0    63,902.8
3) Vehicles                                3,282.0    23,538.8    10,124.4        7,400.0      1,710.2    46,055.4
4) Technical Assistance                    3,504.5    16,576.0    16,302.0    15,165.5         7,133.6    58,681.5
5) Training                                3,672.4    19,467.1    22,552.8    21,174.8    11,291.3    78,150.4
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                    21,522.3   104,569.1   104,961.6    96,621.3    28,032.6   345,707.0
B RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allovances                   5,271.0    14,067.0    14,706.3    14,291.1         2,952.9    49,644.0
2) Non-salary operating costs              8,456.0    24,299.9    32,659.7    27,418.4         8,408.5   101,242.5
SUB-TOrAL, RECURRENT COSTS                13,727.0    38,366.8    47,366.0    41,709.5    11,361.4   152,530.7
INCREMENTAL CREDIT                        27,255.2    55,662.9       3,043.2    12,2a1.8           0.0    98,213.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                          62,504.5   198,598.8   155,370.9   140,582.6    39,394.0   596,450.8
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES              5X    1,762.5       7,146.8      7,616.4      6,416.5      1,969.7    24,911.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        2,480 7    21,603.3    24,937.1    28,664.8    10,382.3    88,068.2
TOTAL COSTS                               66,747.7   227,348.9   187,924.3   175,664.0    51,746.0   709,430.9
32:....=.  .       .           .2::  :: ..:.=. .:: =  =:,=2- z   :  . :a   Z



- 86 -
Annex 2
Table 3
RSD PROJECT
(ALL SUBPROJECTS COMBINED)
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
EXPENDITURE CATEG0RY                      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
(KSh 000)
Ai INVLSTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                           3,931.4    19,928.2    48,438.9    40,257.3        7,925.3   120,491.0
2) Equipient                             8,133.6    32,268.3    19,336.2    13,547.7        2,448.5    75,734.3
3) Vehicles                              3,579.1    27,310.9    12,257.1       9,285.2      2,246.4    54,678.7
4) Technical Assistance                  3,821.8    19,232.3    19,736.0    19,028.9        9,370.3    71,189.2
3) Triining                              4,004.8    22,586.8    27,303.6    26,569.1    14,831.7    95,295.9
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                  23,470.7   121,326.3   127,071.8   108,688.1    36,922.2   417,379.1
8: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries I Allowances                 5,748.2    16,321.2    17,804.2    17,931.7        3,978.8    61,684.0
2) Non-salary operating costs            9,221.6    28,193.9    39,539.5    34,403.2    11,045.0   122,403.2
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS              14,969.7    44,515.1    57,343.7    52,334.9    14,923.8   184,087.2
INCRENENTAL CREDIT                      28,307.3    61,507.5       3,508.8    14,640.9          0.0   107,964.5
TOTAL COSTS                             66,747.7   227,348.9   187,924.3   175,664.0    51,746.0   709,430.9
-a  -==-= : ====: = :=:-s::s=



-87 -Annex 2
Table 4
RSD PROJECT
(ALL 8UBPROJECTS COMBINED)
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
EXPENDiTURE CATEG0RY           YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR S        TOTAL
(1988/89)
(US S tOOS)
A: INVESTMENT cosrs
1) Civil Works                  196.6        996.4      2,421.9      2,012.9        396.3     6,024.1
2) Equipeent                    406.7      1,613.4        966.8        677.4        122.4      3,786.7
3) Vehicles                     179.0      1,365.5        612.9        464.3        112.3      2,733.9
4) Technical Assistance         191.1        961.6        986.8        951.4        468.5      3,559.5
5) Training                     200.2      1,129.3      1,365.2      1,328.5        741.6      4,764.8
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS        1,173.5      6,066.3      6,353.6      5,434.4      1,841.1    20,869.0
Bi RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries A Allowances        287.4        816.1        890.2        89i.6        193.9     3,084.2
2) Non-salary operating         461.1      1,409.7      1,977.0      1,720.2        552.3      6,120.2
SUB-TOTAL; RECURRENT COS        748.5      2,225.8      2,j67.2      2,616.7        746.2      9,204.4
INCRENENTAL CREDIT            1,415.4      3,075.4        175.4        732.0          0.0      5,398.2
TOTAL COSTS                   3,337.4    11,367.4       9,396.2      8,783.2      2,587.3    35,471.5
::: , ~~~=--=::==:-=:==-_::s =:-:



- 88 -                                               Annex 2
Table 5
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
SNALLHOLDER CREDIT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1998/89)
As INVESThENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                               0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equipeent                                254.6         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       254.6
3) Vehicles                                659.2          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       659.2
4) Technical Assistance                     152.1     2,098.5          0.0         0.0          0.0     2,240.6
5) Training                                414.8          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       414.9
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                    1,480.7     2,088.5          0.0         0.0          0.0     3,569.2
Bs RECURRENT COSTS
1l  Salaries A Allowances                  942.2      1,002.4          0.0         0.0          0.0     1,944.6
2  NMn-salary operating costs                61.9        65.8          0.0         0.0          0.0        127.7
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS               1,004.1      1,069.2          0.0         0.0          0.0     2,072.3
Cs INCREMEWTAL CREDIT                   28,l07.3    36,241.8           0.0         0.0          0.0    64,549.1
TOTAL COSTS                             30,792.1    39,398.5           0.0         0.0          0.0    70,190.6



Annex  2
- 89  -                                        Table  6
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
RANCH CREDIT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE60RY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
YEAR 1      VEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(19881/9)
As INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                 703.4         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        703.4
2) Equipuunt                 3,517.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      3,517.0
3) Vehiclen                    820.6          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0        E20.6
4) Technical Assistance          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
5) Training                    422.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        422.0
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTHENTS       5,463.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0      5,463.0
Di RECURRENr COSTS
1) Salaries & Allovances         0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating      1,9899.2     1,2A7.3         0.0          0.0         0.0      3,146.4
SUB-TOTAL, RECIMRENT COS    1,899.2      1,247.3          0.0          0.0         0.0      3,14b.4
C: INCRERENTAL CREDIT            0.0    23,757.5          0.0          0.0         0.0    23,757.5
TOTAL COSTS                  7,362.2    25,004.8          0.0          0.0         0.0    32,366.9



-  90  -                                                    Annex  2
Taible 7
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
DEPOSIT TAKIN6
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE60RY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY           YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1998/89)
A: INVESThENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                  318.4        916.6        508.5          0.0          0.0      1,743.5
2) Equlpemnt                  2,355.5      2,989.0      2,409.2          0.0          0.0      7,653.8
3) Vehicles                   1,063.3      1,705.3      1,089.6          0.0          0.0     3,458.1
4) Technical Assistance          70.9        145.0         90.8          0.0          0.0        306.7
5) Training                     327.2        580.1        242.1          0.0          0.0      1,149.4
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS        4,135.3      5,836.1      4,340.2          0.0          0.0    14,311.5
Bs RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances    1,297.7        2,564.2      1,664.6          0.0          0.0      5,526.5
2) Non-salary operating         174.5      1,090.6        484.3          0.0          0.0      1,749.4
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS    1,472.2        3,654.8      2,148.9          0.0          0.0     7,275.9
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT             0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                   5,607.5      9,490.8     6,148.1           0.0          0.0    21,587.4



Annex 2
-91 -
RURAL SERVICES DESI1N PROJECT
LIVESTOCK NARKETINS SUBPROJECT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Kshs '000 including contingpnciu)
EXPENDITURE CATE9ORI                     YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5       TOTAL
(19891891
-- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -    -- - -- - -- ---            - -------- --------
At INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                              0.0     2,320.5     4,642.6      2,509.5         0.0     9,672.6
2) Equipment                                0.0     2,320.5      2,421.3         0.0         0.0     4,741.9
3) Vehicles                                 0.0     4,060.9        605.3         0.0         0.0     4,666.2
4) Technical Assistance                     0.0       580.1        121.1         0.0         0.0       701.2
5) Training                                 0.0     3,225.5     3,903.0      4,120.1         0.0    11,33b.7
SUD-TOMAL, INVESTNENTS                      0.0    12,507.5    11,973.3      6,637.6         0.0    31,118.5
Bi RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allouances                    0.0     1,024.5     1,069.0      1,107.9         0.0     3,201.4
2) Non-salary operating costs               0.0     2,320.5     2,421.3      2,509.5         0.0     7,251.3
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                  0.0    3,345.0    3,490.3        3,617.4         0.0    10,452.7
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT                       0.0       552.5      1,153.0     1,171.1         0.0     2,876.6
TOTAL COSTS                                 0.0    16,405.0    16,616.6    11,426.2          0.0    44,447.9



- 92 -                                             Annex 2
-92-                                    ~~~~~~~Table 9
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
COOPERATIVE NANA6EMENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (PHASE 11I
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE6ORY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                      YEAR I       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESThENT COSTS
1) Civil horks                               0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equipment                                  0.0     1,775.2      1,852.3     1,317.5      1,904.6     6,849.6
3) Vehicles                                  0.0        757.6     2,070.2      4,203.4      2,246.2     9,277.4
4) Technical Assistance                    327.2      1,566.3     2,179.2      1,631.2      1,379.2     7,083.1
5) Training                              2,399.2      7,696.7     6,295.4      6,650.2    ,;355.9    30,387.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                   2,726.3    11,785.8    12,397.!    13,802.3    12,885.9    53,597.4
B; RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & AlloNances                   817.9      1,740.4     1,816.0      1,882.1     1,970.3      8,226.7
2) Non-salary operating costs            2,597.6      2,763.7     3,305.1      3,489.2      3,704.2    15,858.8
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS               3,415.5      4,504.1     5,121.0      5,370.3      5,674.5    24,085.5
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                              6,141.9    16,289.?    17,518.1    19,172.6    18,560.5    77,682.9



Annex 2
- 93 -                                            Table 10
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
BARIN6O (PHASE II)
COSTS DY YEAR AND EIPENDITURIE CATE60RY
(Khs '000 includinq contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(198b/89)
A: INVESTHENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                           2,0O9.5      5,546.0     6,658.6      5,175.8          0.0    20,289.9
2) Equipment                             1,635.8      7,889.7        581.1       602.3          0.0    10,708.9
3) Vehicles                              1,036.0      1,810.0        193.7        75.3          0.0     3,115.0
4) Technical Assistance                  2,181.1        946.8        738.5     1,279.0          0.0     5,146.2
5) Training                               U41.7         522.1       678.0        451.7          0.0     2,093.5
Sil-TOTAL, INVESTHENTS                   8,204.1   1,714.6        8,849.9     7,585.0          0.0    41,353.4
8t RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allovances                 2,690.3      2,977.2     3,230.0      3,481.9          0.0    12,379.5
2) Non-salary operating casts            4,498.4      5,302.3      5,750.1     5,267.4          0.0    20,808.8
SUB-TGrAL, RECURRENT COSTS                ,,178.7     8,279.5     8,980.6      8,749.4          0.0    33,188.3
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                             15,382.8    24,994.1    17,930.5    16,334.3            0.0    74,541.7



Annex 2
-  94  -                                               Table  11
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
RURAL OIL/PROTEIN PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING SUBPROJECT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATfO6RY                      YEAR 1       YEAR' 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1989/99)
A: INVESTIENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                               0.3        174.0          0.0         0.0          0.0       174.0
2) Equipsent                                  0.0    13,422.9          0.0         0.0          0.0    13,422.9
3) Vehicles                                   0.0    13,087.6          0.0         0.0          0.0    13,087.6
4) Technical Assistance                       0.0     2,552.6      2,663.4     2,760.5          0.0     7,976.4
5) Training                                   0.0     2,204.5     3,389.8      2j384.0          0.0     7,978.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESThENTS                        0.0    31,441.6      6,053.3     5,144.5          0.0    42,639.3
Bi RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allotaneus                     0.0      2,779.0     2,898.7      3,004.3          0.0     8,681.0
2) Non-salary operating costs                 0.0     2,447.9      2,554.2     2,647.2          0.0     7,649.3
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0     5,225.9      5,452.9     5,651.5          0.0    16,330.2
C8  INCREhENTAL CREDIT                        0.0         0.0      1,729.5     4,182.5          0.0     5,912.0
TOTAL COSTS                                   0.0    36,667.5    13,235.A    14,978.5           0.0    64,891.6



Annex 2
-  95  -                                           Table  I2
RURAL SERVICES DESI6N PROJECT
WILDLIFE DEVELOPHENT AND CONSERVATION
CCSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE60RY
(Kshs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTHENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                               0.0      2,762.3    16,418.4      6,891.2          0.0    26,071.9
2) Equlpment                                  0.0     1,980.2      4,120.3     2,022.7          0.0     8,123.1
3) Vehicles                                   0.0     1,o73.1      4,600.5       251.0          0.0     6,524.5
4) Technical Assistance                       0.0       308.0      1,525.4       533.6          0.0     2,367.0
5) Training                                   0.0       361.0      1,696.1     1,062.9          0.0     3,120.0
SUD-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                        0.0     7,084.6    28,360.6    10,761.3           0.0    46U206.5
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances                     0.0      1,044.2     3,026.6      2,384.0          0.0     69454.9
2) Non-salary operating costs                 0.0     2,784.6    13,317.2      7,528.5          0.0    23,630.3
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0     3,828.8    16,343.8      9,912.5          0.0    30,085.1
Ci INCREMENTAL CREDIT                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                  0.0    10,913.4    44,704.4    20,673.0            0.0    76,291.6



Annex 2
- 96 -                                          Table 13
RURAL SERVICES DESIBN PROJECT
SUAN CATCHIENT REHABILITATION
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Kshs 000 including cant'ngencies)
EXPENDITURE CATE60RY                      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988189)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Marks                               0.0      4,060.9    11j392.2    17,970.5      7,868.2    41,291.8
2) Equipment                                  0.0       986.2      1,029.1       853.2        446.6     3,315.1
3) Vehicles                                  0.0      3,097.9        387.4         0.0          0.0     3,495.3
4) Technital Assistance                      0.0      1,301.8      2,971.7     3,305.0      2,656.0    10,134.5
5) Training                                  0.0         9B.6        308.7       213.3        223.3       843.9
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                        0.0     9,545.4    15,989.0    22,342.1    11,194.1    59,070.6
9: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances                     0.0        365.5       786.9        815.6        991.7     2,959.7
2) Non-salary operating costs                 0.0     2,583.9      3,457.6     3,655.1      3,139.4    12,836.0
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0     2,949.4     4,244.5      4,470.7      4,131.1    15,795.7
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                  0.0    12,494.8    20,233.6    26,812.8    15,325.2    74,866.3



Annex 2
Table 14
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
NONITORIN6 AND EVALUATION
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
(Kibs '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR S       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVLSTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                                0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equlpment                                370.8       278.3      5,833.6     2,430.8          0.0     8,913.6
31 vehicles                                   0.0       777.0      2,300.2         0.0          0.0     3,077.3
4) Technical Assistance                   1,O90.5     5,633.1      4,840.2     4,251.5      4,665.2    20,480.5
5) Trainino                                   0.0     5,357.6     7,807.0      8,376.2      7,014.0    28,554.7
SUB-TOTAL, INV i,.lENTS                   1,461.3    12,046.1    20,781.0    15,058.5    11,679.2    61,026.1
B: RECURRENT COSTS
11 Salaries & Allowances                      0.0       443.1        485.5       526.6        580.1     2,035.3
2) Non-salary operating costs                 0.0     2,726.5      2,987.3     3,241.0      3,569.4    12,524.2
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0     3,169.6     3,472.7      3,767.6      4,149.5    14,559.5
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT                         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                              1,461.3    15,215.6    24,253.8    18,826.1    15,828.7    75,595.6



-98 -                                                Annex 2
Table 15
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
OTHER SUBPROJECTS (Un-allocated)
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE8ORY
(Kshe '000 including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                        YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                                 0.0     4,147.8      81618.6      7,710.2          57.1    20,533.9
2) Equipaent                                   0.0        726.2      1,099.3      6,321.2         97.2     8,234.0
3) Vehicles                                    0.0        741.5      1,010.2     4,755.5           0.3     6,507.4
4) Technical Assistance                        0.0      4,110.0     4,705.8       5,267.4        669.9    14,753.1
5) Training                                    0.0      2,550.8     2,903.4      3,302.6        238.5      8,995.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                         0.0    12,276.3    18,327.4    27,356.9         1,063.0    59,023.6
Bi RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances                       0.0     2,391.7      2,826.9      4,729.2        336.7    10,274.4
2) Non-salary operating costs                  0.0      4,9860.8     5,262.0      6,066.3        632.0    16,821.1
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0      7,242.6      8,098.9    10,795.5        968.6    27,095.5
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT                          0.0        955.6        626.3      9,287.3          0.0    10,869.3
TOTAL COSTS                                    0.0    20,474.5    27,042.6    47,439.6        2,031.7    96,988.4



Annex 3
99 -                                          Table 1
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN FOR OVERALL PROJECTS
(including conting,Ciuis)
(UNITS 000,000)
IDA                    UNDP                    FARhERS                60K                       TOTAL
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY       Kthi    US         2    Kishs    US S     2    Kibs    US S       T    Kshc    US I       7    Kshs    US S      T
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works            108.4      5.4    901    0.0       0.0     0?    0.0      0.0      02   12.0      0.6    10  120.5       6.0   1007
2) Equipcent               60.6      3.0    802    0.0       0.0    0    0.0       0.0      02   1b.1      0.8    201   75.7       3.8   100l
3) Vehicles                43.7      2.2    802    0.0       0.0     02    0.0      0.0      01   10.9      0.5    20T   54.7       2.7   100l
4) Technical Assistance   35.6       1.P    501   35.5.    1.9    502    0.0        0.0      0?    0.0      0.0    0   71.2        3.6   100I
5) Trainino                36.9      1.6    391   58.4       2.9    617    0.0      0.0    0    0.0        0.0      0?   95.3   4.7   1002
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS   285.4   14.2    681   93.9          4.7    22?    0.0      0.0    0   39.1        1.9      92  417.4  20.8    100I
8: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allouance    0.0       0.0      0?    0.0      0.0    0    0.0       0.0      02   61.7      3.1   1002   61.7       3.1   100?
21 Nan-salary              61.2      3.1    507    0.0       0.0     01    0.0      0.0      0?   61.2      3.1    50Z  :22.4   6.2    100?
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT       61.2      3.1    33?    0.0       0.0     02    0.0      0.0      02  122.9    6.2    67?  194.1   9  3    1002
Ct INCRENENTAL CREDIT      69.2      3.5    642    6.5       0.3     6?   16.0      0.9    15?   16.3       0.9    152  108.0       5.4   100?
TOTAL                     415.7    20.8    591  100.3        5.0    142   16.0      0.8      2?  177.3      8.9    251  709.&    35.5   100I
1/ Salaries and allovances refer to existinq staf
.0



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
SHALLHOLDER CREDIT
lincluding contingencies)
(Kshs  000 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                            IDA             1         UNDP            Z      FARMERS            2          5OK             I        TOTAL            2
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works
2) Squipment                                    0.2           80I                         OZ                        0%         0.1            201         0.3          100l
3) Vehicles                                     0.5           80Z                         Ox                        Ox         0.1            201         0.7          1001
4) Technical Assistance                         2.2          100I                         OZ                        01                         01         2.2          1001 l
5) Training                                     0.0            0%         0.4           100I                        0%                        0          0.4            ox
SUB-TOT4L, INVESTMENTS                          3.0           83X         0.4            12Z                       0          0.2             52         3.6           991
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances   11                   0.0            02                         OI                        0%         1.9           100l         1.9          1001
2) Non-salary operating casts                   0.1           50Z                         02                        0l         0.1            50I         0.1          100l
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                      0.1            31                         0%                        Ox         2.0            97I         2.1          100l
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT                          39.1            61%         6.0            92         9.7           15Z          9.7           15Z        64.5          100%
TOTAL                                          42.2            60Z        6.4             9%         9.7           141        11.9            17Z        70.2            9n
1/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
M x
" , w



-101 -                                                Annex 3
Table 2b
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
SNALLHOLDER CREDIT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATE60RY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXrENDITURE CATE6GRY             IDA Z      YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTIENT COSTS
1) Civil #arks                       oX         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Equipment                        80       203.6          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0        203.6
3) Vehicles                         80Z       527.4          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0        527.4
4) Technical Assistance            lOOZ       152.1      2,088.5          0.0          0.0          0.0      2,240.6
5) Training                          OX         0.0          0.0          c90 o.o                   0.0          0.0
SUi-TOTALp INVESTHENTS                        883.2      2,088.5          0.0          0.0          0.0      2,971.6
Di RECURRENT CWSTS
1) ialaries & Allowances             oa         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating             50X        30.9         32.9          0.0          0.0          0.0         63.8
8UB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                     30.9         32.9          0.0          0.0          0.0         63.8
Ci INCREMENTAL CREDIT               611  17.166.8  21,978.7               0.0          0.0          0.0  39,145.5
TOTAL COSTS                              18,080,9  24,100.0              0QO           0.0          0.0 42,180.9



-  102 -                                             annex  3
Table 2c
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
SNALLHOLER CREDI 0
COSTS BY YEAP AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
UNDP FINANCINB
lKSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY          UNDP Z       YEAR I       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
11988/89)
Ai INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                     0o         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
2  Equipsent                       02        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0,0          0.0
3) Vehicles                        0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
4) Technical Assistance             02        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
5) Training                       lOOl      414.8          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0        414.8
SUD-TOTAL, INVESTNENTS                      414.8          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0        414.8
Di RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances          0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating            O0         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0
SUO-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
Co INICREIETAL CREDIT               9l   2,648.3   3,390.6              0.0         0.0          0.M     6,038.9
TOTAL COSTS                              3,063.1   3,390.6              0.0         0.0          0.0    6,433.7



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
RANCN CREDIT
(including contingencies)
(Kshs 000 0OOs)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                           IDA             2        UNDP            I      FARMERS             Z         60K             I       TOTAL             I
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                                 0.6           90%                                                             0.1           102         0.7           100l
2) Equipeent                                   2.8           80t                                                             0.7            201         3.5          1002
3) Vehicles                                    0.7           0ox                                                             0.2           202         0.8           100l
4) Technical Assistance                        0.0
5) Trining                                     0.4          100N                                                                                        0.4          100l
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                         4.5           83Z                                                              0.9           172         5.5          1002
0.0
B: RECURRENT COSTS                             0.0
1) Salaries & Allowances   1/                  0.0
2) Non-salary operating costs                  1.6           50Z                                                              1.6           502         3.1          1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                     1.6            50                                                             1.6           50         3.1          1002
0.0
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT                         16.6           70Z                                   3.6            15Z        3.6            15Z       23.8           1002
TOTAL                                         22.7          7?0          0.0             02        3.6            112        6.1            191        32.4          1002
1/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
'-m



- 104 -
Annex 3
Table 2e
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
RANCH CREDIT
COSYS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
IDA X       YEAR 1        YEAR 2        YEAR 3       YEAR 4        YEAR 5         TOTAL
(1918/89)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Nor           90X          633. ,    0.0               0.0          0.0           0.0         633.1
2) Equipment            802     2,813.6           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0      2,813.6
3) Vehicles             BO9         656.5         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         656.5
4) Technical           100l             0.0       0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0
5) [raining            lOO1         422.0         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0         422.0
SUB-TOTAL,  IlNVSTS.             4,525.2          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0      4,525.2
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries              02            0.0        0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0            0.0
2) Non-salar            502         949.6    623.6              0.0          0.0           0.0      1,573.2
SUB-TOTAL,REC. COSTS                949.6    623.6              0.0          0.0           0.0      1,573. Z
Cs INCREMENT            702            0.0  16,630.3            0.0          0.0           0.0    16,630.3
TOTAL COSTS              O      5,474.7  17,253.9              0.0          0.0           0.0   22,728.6



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
DEPOSIT TAKING
(including contingencies)
(Kshs '000 OOs)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY             IDA            I        UND?            2     FARMERS            I         60K            2       TOTAL            I
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
II Civil Works                   1.6          902         0.0           0o         0.0            02        0.2           101        1.7          100?
2) Equipment                     6.1           802        0.0            02        0.0            02        1.5           202        7.7          100l
3) Vehicles                      2.8           80Z        0.0            02        0.0            01        0.7           202        3.5          1002
4) Technical Assistance          0.3          100l        0.0            02        0.0            02        0.0           0a         0.3          1002
5) Training                      1.1          1002        0.0            02        0.0            02        0.0            02        1.1          1002                                  U'
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS          11.9          100I        0.0            02        0.0           0         2.4           17m       14.3          1002                                   f
B: RECURRENT C(-TS
1) Salaries & Allovances         0.0          0          0.0            02        0.0            02        5.5          1002        5.5          1002
2) Non-salary operating          0.9           50Z        0.0            02        0.0           0         0.9           502         1.7         1002
iU8-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS         0.9           122        0.0            02        0.0           0         6.4           88         7.3          1002
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT
TOTAL                           12.8           592        0.0            02        0.0            02        8.8           41Z       21.6          1002
11 Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
I-i



- 106 -
annex 3
Table 2g
RURAL SERVICES DESI6N PROJECT
DEPOSIT TAKING
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCIN6
(KSh '000, including contingencles)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY              IDA X       YEAR 1        YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4        YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
---------
A: INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                  90%            286.6       824.9        457.6             0.0          0.0      1,569.2
2) Equipment                     80%        1,884.4  2,311.2  1,927.4                     0.0          0.0      6,123.0
3) Vehitles                     80%            850.6  1,044.2           871.7             0.0          0.0      2,766.5
4) Technical Assistance        100%              70.9       145.0         90.8            0.0          0.0          306.7
5) Training                    100%            327.2        580.1       242.1             0.0          0.0      1,149.4
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                      3,419.7  4,905.5  3,589.6                     0.0          0.0    11,914.8
Bi RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & AlloNances          0%              0.0          0.0         0.0            0.0          0.0            0.0
2) Non-salary oper.ting c        50%            87.2        545.3       242.1             0.0          0.0         847.7
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                      87.2        545.3       242.1             0.0          0.0         847.7
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT             0%              0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0            0.0
TOTA  COSTS                                 3,506.9  5,450.9  3,831.7                     0.0          0.0    12,789.5



RURAL SERVICES DESI6N PROJECT
FINANCIIN  PLAN
LIVESTOCK ARlKETINS SUBPROJECT
(including contingencies)
(Kshs 000 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY             IDA           2        UNDP            Z     FARNERS            2          01K          2        TOTAL           I
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
ii Ci/ll Morks                  8.7           902        0.0            02        0.0 0Z                   1.0          100         9.7         1002
2) Equipment                     3.8          802        0.0            01        0.0            02        0.9          202         4.7          1001
3) Vehicles                      3.7          902        0.0            Ox        0.0            02        0.9           202        4.7         1002
4) Technical Assistance          0.7         100I         0.0           Ox        0.0            02        0.0           02         0.7         1001
51 Triining                     11.3         lOOZ        0.0           O0         0.0            02        0.0           0x        11.3         1001
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS          28.3          912        0.0            Ox        0.0            02        2.B            92       31.1          1002
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries J Alomnces           0.0           02        0.0            02        0.0            02        3.2         1002         3.2         1002
2) Non-salari operating          3.6          502        0.0            02        0.0            01        3.6           502        7.3          1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS         3.6          352        0.0           0o         0.0            02        6.8           652       10.5          1002
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT            2.0          702        0.0           i52        0.4          ERR         0.4           152        2.9          lOOt
TOTAL                           33.9          762        0.0            02        0.4            12       10.1           23Z       44.4         1002
1/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
1.3 



- 108 -
Annex 3
Table 2i
RURAL SERVICES DESISN PROJECT
LIVESTOCK NARKETING SUBPROJECT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh 000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY            IDA X       YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
AS INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                     902         0.0      2,088.5      4,358.3      2,258.6          0.0     8,705.3
2) Equipment                       80Z         0.0      1,856.4      1,937.0          0.0          0.0      3,793.4
3) Vehicles                        80Z         0.0      3,248.7        484.3          0.0          0.0      3,733.0
4) Technicid Assistance           1002         0.0        580.1        121.1          0.0          0.0        701.2
5) Training                       1002         0.0      3,225.5      3,983.0      4,128.1          0.0    11,336.7
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                         0.0    10,999.2    10,883.7        6,386.7          0.0    28,269.6
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & AlloNances            02         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating            502         0.0      1,160.3      1,210.7      1,254.8          0.0      3,625.7
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0      1,160.3      1,210.7      1,254.8          0.0     3,625.7
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT              702         0.0        406.1        847.5        860.8          0.0     2,114.3
TOTAL COSTS                                    0.0    12,565.5    12,941.8        8,502.2          0.0    34,009.5



RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
COOPERATIVE NAN6ENENT IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (PHASE 11)
tintciding contingencies)
(Kshs '000 OOOs)
XPENDITURE CATEGORY             IDA           2        UNDP            2     FARMERS           2          SOK           2        TOTAL           I
INVESThENT COSTS
,) Civil Morks                 0.0            01        0.0            02        0.0           01         0.0           02         0.0          0o
') Equipaent                    5.5           802        0.0           02         0.0           02         1.4          201        6.8          1002
fl Vehicles                     7.4           802        0.0           02         0.0           02         1.9          202        9.3          1002
I) Technical Assistance         0.0            02        7.1         1002         0.0           05         0.0           02        7.1          1002                                     I
il Training                     0.0            02       30.4          1005        0.0           02         0.0           02       30.4          1002
FUD-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS         12.9          241        37.5          705        0.0            02        3.2            62       53.6          1002
B: RECURRENT COSTS
LI Salaries I Allowances        0.0            02        0.0            0%        0.0           02         8.2         1002         8.2         1001
?) Non-salary operating         7.9           502        0.0           ox         0.0          0O          7.9          502        15.9         1002
,UB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS        7.9           331        0.0            02        0.0           02        16.2          671        24.1         1OOl
: INCREMENTAL CREDIT
[OTAL                          20.8           271       37.5           482        0.0          O0         19.4          252        77.7         1002
:-::=:::_3s==::s::us===:=:::::=====:: 5.       5                5       55 :::===:: : ====:   =_=3=:-z~:s2zt:=s:::__3
./ Salaries and allowances refer to existing statf
t X



- 110 -
Annex 3
Table 2k
RURAL SERMICES DES16N PROJECT
COOPERATIVE HANA6E4ENT ItPROVENENT PROJECT (PHASE II)
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '00, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY           IDA I       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988189)
A: INWItThENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                     OX        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equipeent                      80Z         0.0     1,420.1      1,481.8     1,054.0      1,523.7     5,479.7
3) Vehicles                       Box         0.0       606.1      1,656.2     3,362.7      1,796.9     7,422.0
4) Technical Assistance           O0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
5) Training                       0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
SUB-TOTAL, INVESThENTS                        0.0     2,026.3      3,138.0     4,416.7      3,320.7    12,901.6
Is RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances          0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating           50Z    1,298.8      1,381.9      1,652.5     1,744.1      1,852.1     7,929.4
BUD-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS               1,298.8      1,381.9      1,652.5     1,744.1      1,852.1     7,929.4
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT              Ox         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                              1,298.8      3,408.1     4,790.5      6,160.8      5,172.8    20,831.1



- 111 -
Annex 3
Table 21
RURAL SERVICES DES16h PROJECT
COOPERATIVE HANAGENENT INMROVENENT PROJECT (PHASE 11)
'OSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
UNDP FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATE60RY          UNDP X      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
Ai INVESTIENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                     Ox Z.0                 0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equip ent                      0o          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
3) Vehicles                       0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
4) Technical Assistance          101       327.2     1,566.3      2,179.2     1,631.2      1,379.2     7,083.1
5) Training                      100l     2,399.2     7,686.7      6,295.4     6,650.2      7,355.9    30,387.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTHENTS                    2,726.3     9,253.0      8,474.6     8,281.4      9,735.1    37,470.3
Di RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances          O0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating            02         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
C: INCRENENTAL CREDI1             O0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                              2,726.3      9,253.0     8,474.6      8,281.4      8,735.1    37,470.3



RURAL SERVICES OESIGN PROJECT
FINANCINS PLAN
BARINGO (PNASE 111 SUBPROJECT
(including contingencies)
(IKshs 000 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY              IDA            2         UNOP            I      FARMERS            2          SOK            Z        TOTAL            2
A: INVESTRENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                   18.3           901         0.0            Ox         0.0            Ox         k.0           102        20.3          1001
2) Equipuent                      8.6           802         0.0            0         0.0            02         2.1           201        10.7          1002
3) Vehicles                       2.5           802         0.0            02         0.0            ox         0.6           201         3.1          100 
4) Technical A .istance           5.1          100I         0.0            ox         0.0            02         0.0            01         5.1          100..
5) Training                       2.1          1001         0.0            ox         0.0            02         0.0            02         2.1          1001
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS           36.6           862         0.0            02         0.0            ox         4.8           121        41.4          1002
P: RECURRENT COSTS
11 Salaries & Allowances          0.0            02         0.0            ox         0.0           O0         12.4          100!        12.4          1002
2) Non-salary operating          10.4           502         0.0            ex         0.0            02        10.4           50!        20.8          1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS         10.4           312         0.0            Ol         0.0            Ox        22.8           69!        33.2          100!
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT
TOTAL                            47.0           63!         0.0            02         0.0            02        27.6           37!        74.3          100!
::=     =x===::_:::::__:M%MZ   ---_   -=:=== z  MZ   =-:M   cm m s:==Z==__  = =====.==:S=ZZ'S=S ==55ZMZM2Z==_=: 
1I/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff



- 113 -
Annex 3
Table 2n
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
BARIN6O (PHASE II)
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, includinq continqencies)
EXPENDITURE CATESO6Y            IDA %       YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTHENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                     90X    2,618.6       4,991.4      5,992.7     4,658.3           0.0    18,261.0
2) Equipment                       802    1,308.6       6,311.8        464.9        481.8          0.0      8,567.1
3) Vehicles                        80Z       828.8      1,448.0        155.0         60.2          0.0      2,492.0
4) Technical Assistance           100l     2,181.1        946.8        738.5      1,279.8          0.0      5,146.2
51 Training                       100?       441.7        522.1        678.0        451.7          0.0      2,093.5
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                     7,378.7    14,220.0       8,029.0      6,931.9          0.0    36,559.7
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances           0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating            50X    2,244.2       2,651.2      2,875.3      2,633.7          0.0    10,404.4
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                 2,244.2      2,651.2      2,875.3      2,633.7          0.0    10,404.4
C: INCREhENTAL CREDIT               0?         0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                9,622.9    1b6871.2    10,904.3       9,565.6           0.0    46,964.1



RURhL SERVICES DESIN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
RURAL OIL/PROTEIN PRODUCTION AND PROCESSIN6 SUBPRCJECT
(including contingencies)
(Kshs '000 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY  '           IDA           I         UNDP            2     FARNERS            2          60K            I       TOTAL            2
A: INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                   0.2           902         0.0            OT        0.0            0;         0.0           101        0.2          1002
2) Equipaent                     10.7          802         0.0            02        0.0            02         2.7           202        13.4         lOO0
3) Vehicles                      10.5          N02         0.0           O0          0.0          O0          2.6           201        13.1         1002
41 Technical Assistance           0.0           02         8.0          1001        0.0            02         0.0            0x        8.0          1002
5) Training                      0.0            02         8.0          1001        0.0            02         0.0            02        8.0          100_
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTNENTS           21.4          501        16.0           372         0.0           02         5.3           122        42.6         1002
8: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries I Allo ances         0.0            0x         0.0           O0          0.0           02         8.7          1002        8.7          1002
2) Non-salary operating           3.8           502        0.0            02         0.0           02         3.8           507         7.6          1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS          3.8          232         0.0            02         0.0           02        12.5           772        16.3          100I
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT             4.1           701        0.0            02         0.9           152        0.9           152         5.9          1001
TOTAL                            29.3          452        16.0           252         0.9            12       18.7           292        U.9           1002
=       =     =     =     =     C_____________=        =      G______  ___
I/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
t x
o 



-115 -
Annex 3
Table 2p
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
RURAL OIL/PROTEIN PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING SUBPROJECT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY           IDA I      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(19C9/89)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                    90X        0.0        156.6          0.0         0.0          0.0       156.6
2) Equipsent                      90Z         0.0    10,730.3          0.0         0.0          0.0    10,738.3
3) Vehicles                       S0X        0.0    10,470.1           0.0         0.0          0.0    10,470.1
4) Technical Assistance           O0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
5) Training                       O0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                        0.0    21,365.1          0.0         0.0          0.0    21,365.1
Ds RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries &.Allowances          0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating           501        0.0      1,223.9      1,277.1     1,323.6          0.0     3,9824.6
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                   0.0      1,223.9      1,277.1     1,323.6          0.0     3,924.6
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT             70Z         0.0         0.0      1,271.2     3,074.1          0.0     4,345.3
TOTAL COSTS                                  0.0    22,589.0      2,549.3      4,397.9          0.0    29,535.0



- 116 -
Annex 3
Table 2q
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
RURAL OIL/PROTEIN PRODUCTION AND PROCESSIN6 SUBPROJECT
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
UNDP FINANCING
(KSh 000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY         UNDP X      YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTHENT COSTS
1) Civil lorks                   0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2) Equipment                      02        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
3) Vehicles                      0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
4) Technical Assistance         1002        0.0     2,552.6    2,663.4    2,760.5            0.0     7,976.4
5! Training                     1002        0.0     2,204.5      3,309.8     2,384.0         0.0     7,978.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTNENTS                      0.0     4,757.0    6,053.3       5,144.5         0.0    15,954.8
Bs RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allomwnces          02        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating           02        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                  0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Cs INCRENENTAL CREDIT             OX        0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                 0.0     4,757.0      6,053.3     5,144.5         0.0    15,954.8



RURAL SERVICES DSIGN PROJECT
FINANCINO PLW
WILDLIFE D    PVELOPENT AND CONSERVATION SUBPROJECT
(including contingencies)
(kshs '000 000O)
EXPENDITURE CATE60RY           IDA           I        UNDP           I     FARMERS           I         60K           Z       TOTAL           S
A: INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Norks                23.5          90I        0.0           0x        0.0          0o         2.6          101       26.1         1001
2) Equipeent                    6.5         801        0.0           O0         0.0          Ox         1.6         201        8.1         1007
3) Vehicles                     5.2          8S0       0.0           Ox         0.0          OX        1.3          20S        6.5         100l
4) Technical Assistance         2.4        1OO2        0.0            Ot       0.0          O0         0.0           02        2.4         100l
5) Training                     3.1         100O        0.0          O0         0.0          Ox        0.0          O0          3.1        100l
SUI-TOTAL, IVESTMENTS          40.7          88S        0.0          O0         0.0         O0          5.5          121       46.2         1002
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances       0.0           02        0.0           01        0.0          O0         4.5         1002        6.5         100l
2) Non-salary operating        11.8          501       0.0           OZ        0.0          O0         11.8         50S       23.6         1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT CGS       11.8         392        0.0          O0          0.0         O0        18.3          612       30.1         1002
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT           0.0          02         0.0         O0          0.0          02        0.0          O0          0.0          02
TOTAL                          52.5          6N         0.0          02        0.0           02       23.8          312       76.3         1002
1/ Salaries and alloances refer to existing staftf
0 x



- 118 -
Annex 3
Tab;e 2s
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
WILDLIFE DEVELOPMENT AND CONSERVATION
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY            IDA M       YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5        TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil borks                     902         0.0      2,486.1    14,776.5      6,202.1           0.0    23,464.7
2) Equip ment                      80S         0.0      1,584.1      3,296.2      1,018.1          0.0     6,498.5
3) Vehicles                        80S         0.0      1,338.5      3,b60.4        200.8          0.0     5,219.6
4) Technical Assistance           1OO%         0.0        308.0      1,525.4        533.6          0.0     2,367.0
5) 7raining                       100l         0.0        361.0      1,696.1      1,062.9          0.0     3,120.0
SUB-TOTAL, INVESThENTS                         0.0      6,077.7    24,974.7       9,617.5          0.0    40,669.8
Bs RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances                       0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating            50Z         0.0      1,392.3      6,659.6      3,764.3          0.0    11,815.1
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                     0.0      1,392.3      6,658.6      3,764.3          0.0    11,815.1
C: INCREMENWAL CREDIT              O0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                    0.0      7,470.0    31,633.2    13,391.7            0.0    52,484.9



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCINS PLAN
SUM CATCHNENT RENABILITATION SUBPROJECT
(including contingencies)
(Kshs '000 000)
EXPENDITURE CATE60RY            IDA           Z        UNDP            I     FARMERS           I          M1           I       TOTAL            1
---------          -------    ---     - - -------       ----------------------------- --                     
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                 37.2          902        0.0           01         0.0           07        4.1          10?       41.3          IOO1
2) Equipment                    2.7         890         0.0            01        0.0          0C         0.7          201        3.3          100O
3) Vehicles                     2.9 80?                 0.0           O0         0.0           Ox        0.7          207        3.5          1001
4) Technical Assistance        10.1         1002        0.0            OT        0.0          0         0.0           Ox        10.1         100?
5) Training                     o.8         1002        0.0            07        0.0           0?        0.0           0?        0.8          I007
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS         53.6          911        0.0           O0         0.0           0?        5.5           9?        59.1         100?
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances        0.0           O?        0.0           01         0.0          O0         3.0         100?        3.0          1002
2) Non-salary operating         6.4          50?        0.0            02        0.0           0?        6.4          501        12.8         100l
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS        6.4          41?        0.0            0%        0.0           0?        9.4          59         15.6         100?
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT           0.0           0?        0.0           O0         0.0          ?O         0.0           0?         0.0           0?
TOTAL                          60.0          S0?        0.0           0         0.0           0x       14.9          20?        74.9         IOO
1/ Salaries and allovances refer to existing staff



REAL SEWVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
SWIl CATCHIIET REHAILITATION SUIPROECT
(including contingencies)
(KIshs '000 000)s
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY            IDA                    V UIP          2      FARIERS           I         6K            I       TOTAL            1
4: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                 37.2         90          0.0           02         0.0           0?        4.1          10?       41.3          1005
2) Equipment                    2.7          802        0.0            ox        0.0          0         0.7          205        3.3          100?
3) Vehicles                     2.8          80Z        0.0            02        0.0          O0         0.7          20?        3.5          1001
4) Technical Assistance        10.1         100C         0.0           02        0.0           01        0.0           05       10.1          100l
5) Training                     0.8         1001        0.0          o0          0.0           ox        0.0           05        0.8          100l
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTIEITS         53.6          911        0.0           0?         0.0           01        S.5           9?       59.1          1005
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries I Allowances        0.0          O0         0.0           0?         0.0           0?        3.0         100?        3.0         1002
2) Non-salary operating         6.4          50S         0.0          0?         0.0           0?        6.4          502        12.8         1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS        6.4          41?        0.0          O0          0.0           0?        9.4          59?       15.8          100?
C: INCRENENTAL CREDIT           0.0          0          0.0          O0         0.0           0?        0.0           0?         0.0           0?
TOTAL                          60.0          805        0.0           0?         0.0          O0        14.9          201       74.9          100l
1/ Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
tr 
LO



- 121 -
Annex 3
Table 2v
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
SUAN CATCHNENT REHABILITATION
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY           IDA I       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(19B8/89)
A: INVESTWENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                    90X         0.0     3,654.8    10,253.0    16,173.5       7,091.3    37,162.6
2) Equipaent                      801         0.0       799.0        823.2       692.6        357.3     2,652.1
3) Vehicles                       80         0.0     2,478.3        309.9         0.0          0.0     2,789.2
4) Technical Assistance          100l         0.0     1,301.8      2,871.7     3,305.0      2,656.0    10,134.5
5) Training                      100l         0.0        98.6        308.7       213.3        223.3       843.9
SUB-TOTAL, IWNESTNENTS                        0.0     8,322.5    14,566.5    20,374.4    10,317.9    53,581.3
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances          0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Nan-salary operating           501         0.0     1,291.9      1,729.8     1,827.5      1,569.7     6,418.0
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0     1,291.9      1,72898     1,9827.5     1,569.7     6,419.0
Cs INCRENENTAL CREDIT              01         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                                   0.0     9,614.4    16,295.3    22,201.9    11,887.6    59,999.3



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(including contingencies)
(Kshs '000 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATESORY              IDA            Z         UNDP            Z     FARMERS             I          60K            Z        TOTAL            2
: INVESTMENT COSTS
U rivil Works
7) Equipment                      7. 1          80%        0.0            80X         0.0            0%         1.8           20%         8.9          1002
3) Vchicles                       2 .5          80%        0.0            80%         0.0           O0          0.6           201         3.1          100%
4) Technical Assistance           0.0          1002        20.5          100%         0.0            ox         0.0            02        20.5          100l
5) Training                       8.6           701        20.0           70%         0.0            0%         0.0            0%        28.6          100l
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS           18.2           302        40.5           30%         0.0            0%         2.4            42        61.0          100l
P: RECURRENT CUSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances          0.0            O0         0.0            0%         0.0            02         2.0          100%         2.0          1002
.) Non-salary operating           6.3           50%        0.0            50%         0.0            0%         6.3           50%        12.5          100%
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS          6.3           43%         0.0            0%         0.0            0%         8.3           571        14.6          100%
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT
TKTAL                            24.4           32%        40.5           54%         0.0            02        10.7           14%        75.6          100%
11 Salaries and allowances refer to existing staff
t.3w



- 123 -
Annex 3
Table 2u
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
NONITORINS AND EVALUATION
TABLE 4As COSTS DY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EIPENDITURE CATEGORY           IDA l       YEAR 1      YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
1989989)
A: INVESTIENT COSTS
1) Civil Morks                     ox         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equipaunt                      900       296.6       222.7      4,666.9     1,944.7          0.0     7,130.9
3) Vehiclsn                       802         0.0       621.6      1,840.2         0.0          0.0     2,461.8
4) Technical Assistance           0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
51 Training                       30Z        0.0      1,607.3     2,342.1      2,512.9      2,104.2     9,566.4
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTIENTS                      296.6     2,451.6      9,849.2     4,457.5      2,104.2    18,159.1
:s RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries i Allowances          0         0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Nan-salary operating           50Z         0.0     1,363.2      1,493.6     1,620.5      1,784.7     6,262.1
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                   0.0      1,363.2      1,493.6     1,620.5      1,784.7     6,262.1
C: INMMEBENTAL CREDIT              01         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
TOTAL COSTS                       55Z        0.0      3,814.8    10,342.8      6,079.0      3,888.9    24,421.2



- 124 -
Annex 3
Table 2y
RURAL SERVICES DES16N PROJECT
hONITORIN6 AND EVALUATION
COSTS BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
UNOP FINAPCING
(KSh '000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY          UNDP Z      YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3      YEAR 4       YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTNENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                    0O          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Equipment                      0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
3) Vehicles                       0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
4) Technical Assistance          100l     1,090.5     5,633.1      4,840.2     4,251.5      4.665.2    20,480.5
5) Training                       701        0.0      3,750.3      5,464.9     5,863.3      4,909.6    1l,998.3
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                    1,090.5     9,383.4    10,305.1    10,114.8       9,575.0    40,468.8
a: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances           0%        0.0          0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating           O0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                    0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT             0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                       15l         0.0     9,383.4    10,305.1    10,114.8       9,575.0    40,468.8



RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
FINANCING PLAN
OTHER SUBPROJECTS
(including contingencies)
(Kshs '0C 000s)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY             IDA            2        UNDP            I     FARMERS            I         60K            I       TOTAL            2
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                  18.5          90t         0.0          O0          0.0            OZ        2.1           102       20.5          100I
2) Equipment                     6.6          802         0.0            02        0.0           O0         1.6           202        8.2          1002
3) Vehicles                      5.2          802         0.0            OS        0.0            02        1.3           201        6.5          1002
4) Technical Assistance         14.9          1002        0.0            02        0.0            02        0.0            02       14.8          1002
I) Training                      9.0         1002         0.0           02         0.0            01        0.0            02        9.0          1002
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS          54.0           902        0.0            02        0.0           O0         5.0           102       59.0          1002
B: RECURRENT COSTD
il Salaries & Allowances         0.0           Ot         0.0           O0         0.0           O0        10.3          1002       10.3          1002
2) Non-salary operating          8.4           502        0.0            02        0.0            02        8.4           502       16.8          1002
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COS         9.4           322        0.0            02        0.0           O0        18.7           682       27.1          1002
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT            7.7           711        0.0            02        1.4           132        1.8           162       10.9          1002
TOtAL                           70.1           731        0.0            02        1.4            22       25.4           252       97.0          1002
=:==S==:==      --- == = _2:5 =---==                                                                  =
1/ Salaries and allonances refer to existing staff                                                                                                                       ,-3
I-4
It'



- 126 -
Annex 3
Table 2z(ii)
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
OTHER SUBPROJECTS
COSTS DY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
IDA FINANCING
(KSh 000, including contingencies)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY          IDA 2      YEAR 1       YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5       TOTAL
(1988/89)
A: INVESTIENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                   90Z        0.0     3,110.9    6,464.0       5,792.7        42.9    15,400.4
2) Equipunt                      90Z        0.0        484.1       726.2     4,214.1        64.8     5,489.3
3) Vehicles                      80Z        0.0       494.3        673.4    3,170.3          0.2     4,336.3
4) Technical Assistance         100l        0.0     3,425.0      3,921.5     4,399.5       558.2   12,294.2
5) Training                     100l        0.0     2,125.6      2,419.5     2,752.1       198.8    7,496.1
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                      0.0     9,640.0    14,204.7    20,308.8        864.9   45,018.3
Bs RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances         O0         0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
2) Non-salary operating          50         0.0    2,025.3    2,192.5    2,527.6          263.3     7,008.8
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COSTS                  0.0     2,025.3      2,192.5     2,527.6       263.3     7,008.8
C: INCREMENTAL CREDIT            712        0.0        590.2       386.8    5,736.1          0.0     6,713.2
TOTAL COSTS                      732        0.0    12,255.5    16,784.0   29,572.5       1,128.2    58,740.3



- 127 -
Annex 3
Table 3
RSD PROJECT
ALL SUBPROJECTS CONBINED
IDA DISBURNENTS
(KShOOO, 1988 constant prices)
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY                     YEAR I       YEAR 2      YEAR 3      YEAR 4      YEAR 5      YEAR 6        TOTAL
(1988189)
A: INVESTMENT COSTS
1) Civil Works                            860.5    9,351.3    26,472.2    32,442.5    17,152.8    2,715.1    88,994.5
2) Equipment                            1,497.4    14,108.0    18,798.1   10,707.6       5,064.5       745.6   50,921.0
3) Vehicles                               829.8   10,728.3   14,177.3    7,009.8         3,644.1       694.1    37,073.3
4) Technical Assistance                   384.2     5,027.8      8,561.8     7,878.9     5,583.3     1,786.1    29,222.2
5) Training                               263.0     4,434.7      8,270.9    8,380.5    6,222.2       2,164.0    29,743.2
SUB-TOTAL, INVESTMENTS                  3,834.9   43,650.2    76,288.2   66,419.3    37,666.9        8,094.9  235,954.3
B: RECURRENT COSTS
1) Salaries & Allowances                    0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0
2) Non-salary operating                   899.1    8,189.0    15,011.4    15,019.5    8,956.7        2,102.1    50,177.8
SUB-TOTAL, RECURRENT COD                  899.1    8,189.0    15,011.4    15,019.5       8,956.7     2,102.1    50,177.8
INCRENENTAL CREDIT                      4,128.6    26,726.8    22,465.1      4,930.0     3,949.1         0.0   62,199.7
TOTAL BASE COSTS                        9,862.6    78,565.9   113,764.7    86,368.8    50,572.7   10,197.0  349,532.6
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES            51      236.7     2,592.0     4,565.0      4,071.9     2,331.2       509.9    14,598.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       351.2     3,132.7    18,104.4    17,635.9    13,278.9      2,687.4    51,609.8
TOTAL COSTS                             9,450.5   84,290.6  136,434.2  109,076.7   66,182.8    13,394.3  415,741.3
=         2:= :  s===          =  =,=-                             ,  ,t:= 



- 128 -
Annex 3
Table 4
KENYA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements by Fiscal Year
and Semester
IDA Fiscal Year                                         Accumulated
and Semester                 Disbursements              Disbursements
-___________-- (US$M) -----------------
FY 1988/89
1st
2nd                       0.5                       0.5
FY 1989/90
Ist                       2.2                      2.7
2nd                       2.2                       4.9
BY 1990191
'st                       3.4                      8.3
2nd                       3.4                     11.7
FY 1991192
lst                       2.7                     14.4
2nd                       2.7                     17.1
FY 1992/93
lst                       1.6                     18.7
2nd                       1.5                     20.2
FY 1993/94                        0.6                     20.8



- 129 -
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PRQJECT
PLAN OF ACTION
1.      The implementation of the RSD project requires numerous actions by six
participating Ministries and agencies at specific dates or periods. To help
enaure the effective execution of Project activities, the most Important
benchmerk actions, indicative target dates, and references in the SAR are
outlined in this plan of action (POA). The paragraph references to the Items
are also shown below. Further intermediate actions are Indicated in the
Executive Summaries for each of the subprojects (see Annex 1). The broad
implementation period for each subproject is indicated in Chart 1. Except
for those actions and dates specific&lly referred to in the legal agreements
between IDA, GOK and AFC, target dates are Indicative; they will be reviewed
and If necessary revised at the time of periodic reviews of project/subproject
implementation by IDA and URDP.
A.      POA Accordina to Overall Prolect Activity/Actions   larget DatPeh    )
1.      Completion of Financing Arrangements  - UNDP to participate
between GOK and UNDP (GOK/MOF and         in Project Negotiations
UNDP) (para. 3.08)                        (Nov. 1988)
UNDP approval by end-Feb. 1989;
2.      Budgetary Provisions and Work Plan (MOF and Ministry/Agency concerned
for each subproject):
- Draft Forward Budget           Sept.-Nov. each year, beginning in
1988;
- Annual Budget and Work Plan   March-May each year, beginning in 1989,
(para. 3.08)                   with exception of 4 subprojects, which
should receive allocations in 1988/89
revised or supplemental budget
estimates (smallholder, ranch,
deposit taking, cooperative and
Baringo);
3.      Establisbment of Project Review Committee, -  By Credit Effectiveness
with agreed objectives (para 2.10) and          (preferably no later
composition (para. 4.05); MPND and MOF;         than Feb. 1, 1988;
4.      Review/Completion of Subproject Implementation Report (by each
implementing Ministry/Agency):
-  Prepare/update IR and submit to IDA   -  varies (no later than
and UNDP for review;                       Feb.l, 1989 for agreed
subprojects;
-  IDA/UNDP to provide comments on IR;   -  within 2 weeks of
submission;
-  Completion of IR by agency              -  varies (but no later than
March 1, 1989);
5.      Review/Update POA                          -  by Feb. 1 each year,
(GOK/IDA/UNDP)                                beginning in 1989;



- 130 -
B.   POA According to Identified Subproiects            Target Date(s)
1.   Smallholder Creditt (Annex 1, Credit,
para 10, item a)
(i) AFC to appoint subproject coordinator               By December 1, 1988;
(ii) AFC to complete draft IR and submit to IDA
and UNDP for review and comment;                        By December 15, 1988;
2. Ranch Lending Subproject (Annex 1, Credit, para. 10, item b):
(i) AFC appointed :abproject coordinator                October 14, 1988;
(iii) AFC to complete the draft IR and submit to
IDA for review and comment(to be part of Credit IR); By December 15, 1988;
3.   Deposit Taking  Component (Annex 1, Credit, para. 10, item c):
(i) GOK's formal approval of AFC's request to
establish the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB);   By January 15, 1989;
(ii) AFC/ADB to hire General Manager of ADB            By February 15, 1989
(or after approval of ADB);
(iii) AFC to update IR and to submit to IDA for
review and comment;                                     By March 15, 1989;
4. Livestock Marketing Subproject (Annex 1,
Livestock para. 4.1):
(i) MOLD appointed subproject coordinator;             November 1, 1988;
(ii) MOLD/LMD to update draft IR and to submit
to IDA for review and comment;                          By February 1, 1988;
5. CooRerative Management Improvement Proiect (Annex 1,
Cooperatives para. 17):
(i) MOCD to appoint District subproject
Coordinators in the participating 7 Districts
(subject to budgetary allocations in revised
budget for 1988/89);                                     By December 1, 1988
MOCD appointed overall subproject Coordinator;           September 1988;
(ii) Subproject Coordinator, in consultation with
District Coordinators, to update the draft IR and
to submit it to IDA and UNDP for review and comment; By December 15, 1988;
6. BarinQo(Phase 2) Subproiect (Annex 1, Baringo para. 9):
(i) MPND to appoint subproject coordinator;
(in interim, there is acting coordinator)               By December 15, 1988;



- 131 -
(ii) MPND, under subproject coordinator, to
update draft Implementation Report for review;         By February 15, 1989;
and comment by IDA;
7. Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation Subproiect (Annex 1, Suam, para 17):
(i) KVDA to appoint subproject coordinator;           By December 1, 1988;
(in interim, acting coordinator is working)
(ii) KVDA to update draft IR and to submit
to IDA for review and comment;                         By February 1, 1989;
8.   Wildlife Conservation SubDroiect (Annex 1, Wildlife para. 17):
(i) Dept. Wi''life appointed subproject coordinator November 15, 1988;
(ii) Task Force to update draft IR for review
and comment by IDA;                                    By February 15, 1989
9.   Rural Oil-Protein Production and Processing SubDroiect
(Annex 1, Oilseeds, paras. 19 and 20):
(i) MOA to appoint Subproject Coordinator
(in interim, acting coordinator is working);          By November 30, 1988;
(ii) MOA to update draft IR and to submit
to IDA and UNDP for review and comment;                By February 1, 1989;
10. M&E of Aaricultural Strategies and Policies (Annex 1, M&E para. 4.1):
(i)  MPND/SPD appointed subproject coordinator;       October 3, 1988;
(ii) MPND/SPD prepared draft Project Document
(to be used also for IR and for IDA review);          October 3, 1988;
(iii) MPND/SPD to update draft IR and to submit
to IDA and UNDP for review and comment;                By Feb. 1, 1989.



- 132 -
k    IV
QEart 1
KENY
RIMAL SERVICES DESIGN BR0JFCT
P   mp1e1ntatiG1 Scedule  cordi  to Sbprojt 
Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5
SubprojcYt                         (1988/89) (19i8/90) (1990/91) (1991/92) (1992/93)
1.   malIholder lending          D.P.
2.  Ranch lending                D.P.
3.  t-posit-ta1kdn               D.P.
4.  Lvestock Mrketing            D.P.
5.  Cboperative Mb ua81let       D.P.
6.  BarIngo (Thase 2)            D.P.
7.  Suan m iblit1im              D.P.
&   Weldlfe  Conservation    D.P.
9.  Oilseed sDvent               D.P.
10. M & E of  grk. StrtegLes   D.P.
11. lkaidftied Surojects 2/
D.P.  Refers to detailed pl1ani g ativties.
Refers to    ementatin.
1 /    mSwe of the subprojects are epcted to overlap with an expanded prgLf
currently uder preratiim (i.e. natioil credit, ASAL, Willife).  fieore,
the eqxrie:e of the suibpwjects wlll cotribite to tbe design of tise and
fiwer poiie esrled projects.
2/    lb be identified ani prepard, bes  o agred criteria



- 133 -
AQNEX I
Attachment la
Rural Services Design Prolect
SuaR usted Outline for SubDrolect Executive Summary
(i)    Background and Rationale for Subproject
(ii)   The SubproJect
(A)   Objectives
(B)   Components
(C)   Innovative Features
(D)   Estimated Costs
(E)   Implementation Arrangements
(F)   Potential Benefits and Risks
(iii)  Main Issues and Next Steps
Attachments:
1.     Key Tables (summary cost by year; procurement; financing plan);
2.     Operational Action Plan (target dates for key subproject activities,
with emphasis on 1988/89, including further detailed planning)
*      The text should be restricted to 6 pages and provide the basis for
ensuring the subproject meets the agreed criteria. Also, the Executive
Summary will provide the framework for preparing the draft Implementation
Report.



- 134 -
ANNEXYIV
Attachment lb
Rural Services Design Prolect
Suggested Outline of the SubDrolect ImRlementation Report*
I.     BACKGROUND
(A)   Introduction;
(B)   Rationale for Proposed Subproject (indicate how and why
subproject meets three main criteria; its strategic importance in the rural
sector; its innovativeness; and its potential for expansion);
(C)   Status of Recent and/or Ongoing Related Activities (if
applicable, highlight the main findings and how the proposed subproject
builds on and expands on these efforts);
II.    THE PROPOSED SUBPROJECT
(A)   Objectives (overall and specific);
(B) Main Project Components (present in terms of objectives and
emphasize the innovative elements; each subproject should have a separate
Monitoring and Evaluation and Technical Assistance and Training components);
(C)   Project Area (highlight rationale for its selection and how it
may be representive of a larger area for possible replication);
(D)   Cost Estimates (present according to component and expenditure
category);
(E)   Financing Plan (according to project component/expenditure
category and GOK and IDA);
(F)   Procurement Arrangements (summarize the main procurement
method for each of the major expenditure items -- International CUmpetitive
Bidding, Local Competitive Bidding, Limited Shopping, Other);
(G)   Accounts and Audits (highlight the arrangements for keeping
separate subproject accounts and audits which would be forwarded to
Treasury and to IDA);
(H)   Organizational and Management Arrangements (highlight the main
approach and arrangements for the project's implementation);
(I)   Justification and Expected Benefits;



- 135 -
(J) Overall summary of immediate subproject and possible
expanded subproject, based on anticipated nature and
scope of berefits;
(K) Production, Incomes, Employment and Other;
(L) Scope of Replication, if proven successful (highlight
performance indicator for justifying expansion) potential
area, number of direct beneficiaries.
III.   MAIN ISSUES (technical, budgetary, institutional and/or policy)
(A)   During further preparation work and prior to start-up;
(B)   During project implementation.
IV.    NEXT STEPS (needed prior to start-up)
ANNEXES:
1.    Summary Assessment of Relevant Past Experience
2.    Cost Tables
3.    Financing Plan, Disbursement and Procurement Tables
4.    Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Training.
5.    Performance Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Activities (to be used as basis for determine progress, success or
failure).
6.    Indicative Operational Action Plan (highlight activities
according to target dates, particularly involving further detailed
preparation, and show indicative implementation targets to meet
project objectives; these targets would be reviewed and updated
periodically).
*      The main purpose of the implementation report is to provide an
initial guide to the implementing agency, particularly during the
subproject's first year. Therefore, the content and scope of this report
will vary according to subproject and would be updated periodically, based
on the implementation experience.



- 136 -
UUA  ~ ~ AM
KEN.YA
RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Rural Crdidt:
1.   Rural Credit Subproject Implementation Report (for smallholder lending,
ranch lending and deposit taking), draft, September 1988.
2.   Proposal for AFC Deposit Taking Activities, draft preparation report
prepared for AFC by Deloitte and Haskins Consulting firm, November 1987.
Livestock Market nm:
3.   Proposal for Livestock Development Program in Kenya, prepared for the
EEC, January 1988.
4.   Livestock Marketing Subproject Preparation Report, May 1988.
5.   RSD Livestock Marketing Subproject Implementation Report, draft, July
1988.
Cooperatives:
6.   RSD Cooperative Management Improvement Subproject draft Implementation
Report, second draft, November 1988.
Arid Semi-Arid Lands:
7.   Baringo Pilot Project Completion Report, draft, March 1988.
8.   Baringo (Phase 2) Identification Report, March 1988.
9.   RSD Baringo (Phase 2) Subproject draft Implementation Report, September
1988.
10. RSD Suam Catchment Rehabilitation Subproject Preparation Report, April
1988.
11. RSD Suam Catchment Rehabilitation Subproject draft Implementation Report,
October 1988.
12. RSD Wildlife Development and Conservation Subproject Preparation Report,
April 1988.
13. RSD Wildlife Development and Conservation Subproject draft Implementation
Report (under preparation by the Department of Wildlife).



- 137 -
Oilseeds Development
14. Rural Oil-Protein Production and Processing Subproject, second draft
Implementation Report, November 1988.
Monitoring and Evaluaticn:
15. Monitoring Impact of District Rural and Agricultural Development Projects
on Food and Nutrition in Kenya, Project Findings and Recommendations, FAO
(1988).
16. Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Strategies Subproject
Preparation Report, June 1988.
17. RSD Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Strategies Subproject draft
Implementation Report, September 1988.



_I! 3l;                                                                                           4194
S U D A N                                ? 
--YE2ANIE   ,RURAL SERVICES DESIGN PROJECT
Al                                                                                                                                        M  \4em  
\EliySpig                                                       E    T     H I O         PI A/
T >                                          MARSAB' -                       r'  '\ \
-.nbit
41 a 2 + | < ~L~-.  E A       T E R  ,N .  aM/,' 
U CA N DA    
1 $Sr X F W 6 R ~~~~N 0
-. AaKh Lending                k   /                                                                                                        R >  N
IDENTIFIED PROJECTS                                                                                             '    ~            A        \T                        c. C'A  AAR
I~~ Smoilbolder Le ~Aleg
*]  Dzeposit Takin,g (Tenrstoive(                                     >/                                  \ %^ 
IE! Livestock Marketing                                                 4    ~ ,   *             i                     ,              ,<!40W
CI3 Cooepeoralie Manaqemerit FV4hTiTJ.P
Aff, ibringo (ASALI                                      ins, veer eve vN |t. 'A   O  L
@7 Surm, Riwer Caideneni Rehabilitation                     h     r r=
A  Wildlife ConservaMtion AdF hR oreQ4'T ,    a/i*ia
21  Oisieed Development (Tentative)                       _'  "' 41 n. ' *   Os                  \\4E                                          )(g                    p  
TB                                                                                     '\                   /                               S@COI Roosis~~~~~I 
SmalMolde,LO Lendingi0'rt 
KA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m uam  i"r CtcNnent Rew ob_ i tation                                        T                                                                                |   o
A         idieCoso,o                                                                                                                                                     Hnn    pn
3>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k,                                                                  A



