Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1974 KE
                  (Rural Services Design Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated March 6, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1974 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March 6,  1989,  between   REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  obtain  from the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) a grant  in an amount of five million
dollars ($5,000,000) to assist in  financing  Parts  A, C, G and H
of the  Project  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set  forth in an
agreement (the UNDP  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into between the
Borrower and UNDP.
     (C)  Part A of the Project  will  be carried out by the Agri-
cultural Finance Corporation (AFC)  with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such  assistance, the Borrower will make available
Page  2
to AFC part of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and AFC;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and AFC of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AFC pursuant to Section 3.01
(d) of this Agreement, as  the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
     (c)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "MOCD"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Cooperative
Development;
     (e)  "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Energy;
     (f)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (g)  "MOLD"  means  the   Borrower's  Ministry  of  Livestock
Development;
     (h)  "MPND" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Planning and
National Development;
     (i)  "MTW"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Tourism and
Wildlife;
     (j)  "AFC"  means  the  Agricultural  Finance  Corporation, a
statutory  corporation  established  by  the  Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act, 1969, Chapter 323 of the Borrower's laws;
     (k)  "ERD" means the External Resources Department of MOF;
     (l)  "KVDA" means the  Kerio  Valley  Development Authority a
autonomous  agency  of  MOE,   established  by  the  Kerio  Valley
Development Authority, Act  1979,  Chapter  441  of the Borrower's
Laws;
     (m)  "PRC" means the Project  Review Committee established by
the Borrower  pursuant  to  paragraph  1  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement;
     (n)  "DDC" means a District Development Committee;
Page  3
     (o)  "Subproject" means any of the activities described under
the various  Parts  of  the  Project  and  other  activities to be
identified in accordance with the criteria described in Schedule 5
to this Agreement; and
     (p)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by  the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  October 28, 1987, and February 4,
1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement,  an  amount   in   various   currencies  equivalent  to
fifteen  million  five  hundred  thousand  Special  Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,500,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be December 31, 1993,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Page  4
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  January  15 and July 15
commencing January  15,  1999,  and  ending  July  15,  2023. Each
installment to and including  the  installment payable on July 15,
2008, shall be one and  one-fourth  percent (1-1/4%) of such prin-
cipal amount, and  each  installment  thereafter  shall be two and
one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above  by  requiring  the  Borrower  to  repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above,  the  Association determines that the Bor-
rower's economic  condition  has  deteriorated  significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall  carry  out Parts B through I of
the Project through MPND, MOA,  MOCD,  MOLD,  MOE and MTW with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for the purpose.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise  agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Parts B
through I of  the  Project  in  accordance with the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause
AFC to perform in  accordance  with  the provisions of the Project
Agreement all the obligations of AFC therein set forth, shall take
and cause to  be  taken  all  action,  including  the provision of
funds, facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary or
appropriate to enable AFC  to  perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (d)  The Borrower shall  relend  the  proceeds  of the Credit
allocated to Part A  of  the  Project, for agricultural credit, to
AFC under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
Page  5
the Borrower and AFC, under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association, which shall provide, inter alia,
that the proceeds of  the  Credit  shall  be relent at an interest
rate of at least 7.6% per annum,  for a term of fifteen (15) years
including a grace period of four (4) years.
     (e)  The Borrower  shall  make  the  proceeds  of  the Credit
allocated to Part A  of  the Project, for the institution-building
components, available to AFC as an equity contribution.
     (f)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such  manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the  Credit,  and  except  as  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. (a) The  Borrower  shall  ensure that AFC main-
tains positive real interest rates.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, within  the  context of its periodic
review of interest rates for  its lending institutions, by June 30
of each  year  commencing  June  30,  1989,  review AFC's interest
rates to ensure that the  rates  are:  (i) positive in real terms;
(ii) provide AFC with an  adequate  spread over its operations and
lending risks; and (iii) are consistent with market rates.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set  forth  in  Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of
the General Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use of goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively)  in  respect  of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out  by  AFC  pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budget-
ary provisions are made  for  the  Subprojects: (a) in the forward
budget commencing with the  1989/90  - 1991/92 forward budget; and
(b) the annual budget estimates commencing in 1988/89.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower  shall:  (a) ensure that each sub-
project is carried out in  accordance with the operational plan of
action agreed with  the  Association;  and  (b) make amendments to
such operational plan of action,  following a review to be carried
out not later than February 1 in each year, commencing in 1989.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower   shall:  (a)  furnish  to  the
Association for its  review  and  approval  all  proposals for new
subprojects under Part I of  the  Project; and (b) ensure that all
subprojects are selected  and  implemented  in accordance with the
criteria outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts  B  through  I of the Project, of
the  departments  or  agencies  of  the  Borrower  responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
Page  6
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than nine months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  AFC shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
     (b)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable  that  AFC  will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement;
     (c)  the Agricultural Finance Corporation Act shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of  AFC to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement; and
     (d)  the Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of AFC or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  7
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and AFC; and
     (b)  the PRC referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement has been established.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by AFC, and  is  legally  binding  upon AFC in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified  by  the  Borrower  and  AFC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and AFC in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03.  The  date  ninety  (90)  days  after  the date
of this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Sec-
tion 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  minister  at  the  time  responsible for
finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               FINANCE                           22921 MINFIN KE
               Nairobi                           96322003
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  8
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                    By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 3,120,000       90%
(2)  Vehicles and                2,820,000       100% of foreign
     equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                1,710,000       100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Incremental                 2,110,000       50%
     non-salary
     operating
     costs
(5)  Agricultural                2,230,000       70%
     Credit under
     Part A of the
     Project
(6)  Refunding of                  520,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (b) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 2,990,000
                               ___________
Page  9
          TOTAL                 15,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR  1,550,000, may be made on account
of payments  made  for  expenditures  before  that  date but after
September 1, 1988; and
     (b)  payments made for expenditures for any subproject until:
(i) completion of the  financing  arrangement between the Borrower
and UNDP for  the  particular  subproject;  (ii)  completion of an
Implementation  Report  satisfactory   to   the  Association;  and
(iii)  appointment  of  a  subproject  coordinator  with  suitable
qualifications and experience.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to:  (i) test effective
approaches and assess  the  feasibility of innovative investments,
in  order  to  resolve  constraints  to  agricultural  development
and which offer  potential  for  replication  and  for raising the
productivity and incomes of the  rural population; and (ii) estab-
lish  programmatic  mechanisms  and  strengthen  the institutional
procedures  and  capacities  to   generate  innovative  ideas  for
development into concrete subprojects.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Credit
    1.    Smallholder Lending. Broadening  and  further testing of
          innovative  approaches  to  increasing  share  of credit
          resources to smallholders  and  improving credit manage-
          ment in about 7 of AFC's branches, through strengthening
          AFC's loan analysis  and processing capabilities, credit
          management and supervision  procedures, strengthening of
          credit/extension linkages  and  the  provision of credit
          to  smallholders.  Provision  of  technical  assistance,
          vehicles and equipment for above activities.
    2.    Ranch  Lending.  Introduction  of  improvements  in  the
          management, technical and  supervision approach followed
          by AFC in  lending  for  ranch  development, through the
          rehabilitation of the  management  of about four ranches
          based on a  satisfactory  rehabilitation program and the
          provision of credit.
    3.    Deposit Taking. Introduction  by  AFC  of deposit taking
          activities through  the  establishment  of a subsidiary,
          the Agricultural  Development  Bank,  the rehabilitation
          of  facilities  and  provision  of  equipment, technical
          assistance and training.
Page  10
Part B:   Livestock Marketing
    1.    Improving the efficiency  of  livestock marketing in the
          Southern Rangelands through:  (i)  the introduction of a
          livestock market  intelligence  system,  with an initial
          focus on the needs  in  the Project area; (ii) introduc-
          tion of a livestock auction system; (iii) involvement of
          local authorities  in  the  operation  and management of
          market facilities; (iv) provision  of loans to groups of
          small-scale primary  traders  through  group guarantees;
          (v) strengthening of  livestock  marketing services; and
          (vi) provision of  livestock  inputs  and mobile banking
          services at auction yards.
    2.    Rehabilitation of selected infrastructure and the provi-
          sion of technical assistance, training and equipment for
          the above activities.
Part C:   Cooperative Management Improvement
    1.    Development and  implementation  of  measures to improve
          management capability and performance at the cooperative
          society/union level and  to improve MOCD's effectiveness
          to provide services to cooperatives at the field level.
    2.    Provision of: (i)  training  to  MOCD's field personnel;
          (ii)  training  to  staff  and  members  of cooperatives
          societies/unions;   and   (iii)   vehicles   and  office
          equipment.
Part D:   Baringo
    1.    Development,  testing  and   adoption  of  improved  and
          replicable approaches to the provision of rural services
          in  arid  and  semi-arid  lands  through:  (i)  improved
          resource planning methods;  and  (ii) flexible financing
          mechanisms.
    2.    Undertaking of small  physical  works  and the provision
          of  training,  equipment  and  vehicles  for  the  above
          activities.
Part E:   Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation
    1.    Testing of innovative and  low  cost approaches to plan-
          ning and implementation  of  land rehabilitation efforts
          in semi-arid areas, in order  to reduce soil erosion and
          enhance productivity.
    2.    Strengthening of institutional capabilities of the Kerio
          Valley Development Authority and the West Pokot DDC.
    3.    Rehabilitation  of  selected   degraded   land  and  the
          provision   of   vehicles   and   equipment   for  above
          activities.
Part F:   Wildlife Conservation and Development
    1.    Development of improved  methods  of increasing the eco-
          nomic benefits  of  wildlife  to  the  local populations
          adjacent  to   National   Parks   and   Reserves,  while
          conserving wildlife.
    2.    Construction and rehabilitation  of wildlife development
          and  conservation  facilities   and   the  provision  of
          training, technical  assistance,  vehicles and equipment
          for above activities.
Part G:   Rural Oil/Protein Production and Processing
    1.    Promotion of the  economic  cultivation  of oilseeds and
          its  rural  processing,   through   the  development  of
Page  11
          appropriate   agricultural   technology   for   oilseeds
          production and processing.
    2.    Provision of equipment, vehicles, training and technical
          assistance for above activities.
Part H:   Monitoring and Evaluation
    1.    Establishment of a system  for monitoring and evaluating
          the impact of agricultural and rural development strate-
          gies and  the  strengthening  of  MPND and participating
          Ministries in stimulating feedback on the implementation
          and effectiveness of programs and policy.
    2.    Provision of  equipment,  vehicles, technical assistance
          and training for above activities.
Part I:   Other Subprojects
    Implementation of other priority subprojects identified by the
Borrower.
                           *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable contracts for civil works and goods
shall be grouped in bid  packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $1,000,000 and $100,000 or more each, respectively.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$1,000,000 and goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$100,000, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in accord-
ance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of  $250,000  or  more, and the goods esti-
mated to cost the  equivalent  of  $100,000 or more the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
Page  12
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  and AFC in carrying out the
Project, the  Borrower  and  AFC  shall  employ  consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in  accordance  with  principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Coordination:
     1.   The Borrower shall establish  and maintain until comple-
          tion  of  the  Project,  PRC  chaired  by  the Permanent
          Secretary, MOF, and  comprised  of  senior officers from
          MPND, MOF, MOA, MOLD, MOE, MOCD and MTW  with additional
          representation  from   Project   executing  agencies  as
          needed. PRC shall: (i)  decide  on the proposals for new
          subprojects based on the criteria outlined in Schedule 5
          to this Agreement; and (ii) periodically review progress
          in implementation of subprojects  with  a view to deter-
          mining the merits of expansion.
     2.   The Borrower  shall  ensure  that:  (i) each sub-project
          shall be  implemented  by  the  ministry  or agency con-
          cerned; and  (ii)  each  executing  ministry  and agency
          shall designate a subproject coordinator.
     3.   ERD  shall  compile  and  aggregate  for  each executing
          ministry  and  agency,  the  various  progress  reports,
          subproject accounts  and  supporting  documentation, for
          the Project.
     4.   MPND shall provide overall coordination for the Project,
          focusing  primarily  on  its  developmental  aspects to:
          (a) provide guidance  to  the subproject activities from
          the  perspective  of  sectoral  planning  and  strategy;
          (b) provide the secretariat  for  PRC; and (c) assist in
          determining the  justification  for expanding investment
          activities,  based  on  the  monitoring  and  evaluation
          results and on sectoral strategies and policies.
Implementation of Individual Subprojects
     5.   Livestock  Marketing.  MOLD  shall  implement  this sub-
          project through  its  field  offices  in  the  Narok and
          Kajiado districts,  except  for  the Livestock Marketing
          Information System  which  will  be  introduced in other
          districts. Overall coordination will  be provided by the
          Livestock Marketing Division at headquarters. DDCs shall
          assist  with  activities   such   as  establishment  and
          management of the auction.
     6.   Cooperative Management Improvement. MOCD shall implement
Page  13
          this subproject  initially  in  7  districts. Day-to-day
          execution  shall  be  through  MOCD  district personnel,
          under  the  overall   responsibility   of  the  District
          Cooperative Officer,  who  shall  appoint  a cooperative
          officer to coordinate  and supervise project activities.
          MOCD's Projects  and  Management  Division  will provide
          overall project coordination through a full-time Project
          Coordinator, who  shall  ensure  consistency in approach
          and   in   implementation   arrangements   amongst   the
          participating districts.
     7.   Baringo. MPND  shall  coordinate  the  implementation of
          this  subproject.  At  the  district  level,  activities
          shall be  carried  out  by  the participating functional
          ministries - MOA,  MOLD,  Ministry  of Water Development
          and  Ministry  of  Land  Settlement,  under  the overall
          responsibility of the District Commissioner.
     8.   Suam River Catchment Rehabilitation. KVDA, shall execute
          this component, with participation of the West Pokot DDC
          and beneficiaries in  the  planning and execution phases
          KVDA shall designate a subproject coordinator.
     9.   Wildlife Development and  Conservation. MTW's Department
          of Wildlife Conservation  and Management shall implement
          this subproject with day-to-day coordination carried out
          by the Subproject Coordinator, supported by a subproject
          task force, comprised  of  officials  from MTW. The Sub-
          project Coordinator,  with  the  assistance  of the task
          force,  shall   coordinate   participation   of  various
          agencies,  national   park/reserve   staff   and  county
          councils from the four  subproject areas and the private
          individuals or groups from adjacent areas.
     10.  Rural Oil/Protein Production  and Processing. MOA's Crop
          Development Division  shall  have overall responsibility
          for  implementing   this   subproject,  with  day-to-day
          coordination by  a  senior  officer  of  the Division. A
          number of collaborating executing agencies and divisions
          shall provide  the  needed  expertise  for  each  of the
          Project's main  components  of  research,  extension and
          rural processing technology.
     11.  Monitoring  and  Evaluation.   MPND  shall  execute  and
          coordinate  this  subproject.  Monitoring  activities of
          each subproject and agricultural strategies and policies
          shall be carried out by  the various line ministries and
          participating DDCs. MPND shall contract a local institu-
          tion to assist it in  carrying out the impact evaluation
          of the various  subprojects.  Each subproject shall have
          its own arrangements for  monitoring, in order to assess
          and adjust its  day-to-day implementation. The executing
          agency  concerned   shall   prepare  bi-annual  progress
          reports and  use  them  as  basis  for  adjusting imple-
          mentation programs and for  preparing annual work plans.
          Such progress  reports  shall  be  promptly furnished to
          ERD, the Association and UNDP. The Implementation Report
          to  each  subproject  shall  include  a  monitoring  and
          evaluation plan,  indicating  the  main  performance and
          evaluation indicators.
     12.  Mid-Term Review. The Borrower  shall  carry out with the
          Association and  UNDP,  a  mid-term  progress review and
          evaluation for  each  subproject.  The  findings  of the
          review shall provide  the  basis  for any adjustments in
          the design of  the  subprojects  and  utilization of any
          remaining funds.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                 Criteria for Selection and Design
                   of Subprojects (Section 3.06)
Page  14
     Subprojects shall:
     1.   be of strategic importance  to future sustained develop-
          ment of the  Borrower's  rural  sector  by: (a) removing
          constraints to growth and/or developing untapped sources
          of growth;  (b)  increasing  incomes  and  employment of
          rural population; (c) offering potential for replication
          over a large area;  and  (d)  providing "seed" funds for
          mobilizing private investment and promoting rural entre-
          preneurship.
     2.   exhibit   improved   technology   and/or  organizational
          arrangements in its  design and/or implementation, which
          need to  be  tested  on  a  limited  scale  before being
          expanded.
     3.   cost less than $3,500,000 over a two to four year imple-
          mentation period.
     4.   promote improved and sustained resource use.
     5.   be a priority activity  of  executing ministry or agency
          as indicated in its policy statement and its forward and
          annual budgets.
