Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
62 fi. J/~         @
Rbp. NOP-4512-DOM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION
TO THE
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJVSTMENT PROGRAM
May 13, 1987
This doument ha a redcted distribuo nd way be wued by recpiets only In the perfomnce of
thue, ofcia dutes. Its conts  way not oendrse be diseld witout World Bank auhorustion.



CUPRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                                        East Caribbean Dollar
Upon its creation in 1965, the East Caribbean dollar was tied to sterling
at the rate of £ 1.00 = EC$4.8. In July 1976 the link with sterling was
broken and the East Caribbean dollar was aligned with the US dollar at the
rate of UZ$1.00  EC$2.70.
Since July 1976:
EC$1.00         2         US$0.370 or
US$1.00         =         EC$2.700
ABBREVIATIONS
BMC             Banana Marketing Corporatioa
CARICOM         Caribbean Community and Common Market
CDB             Caribbean Development Bank
CET             Common External Tariff
CCGA            Cooperative Citrus Growers' Association
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
CTRC            Caribbean Tourism Research Center
CWA             Central Water Authority
DEXIA           Dominica Export and Import Agency
DOMLEC          Dominica Electricity Services Limited
ECCB            Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EDU             Economic Development Unit
EEC             European Economic Community
EFF             Extended Fund Facility
ETB             External Trade Bureau
IDA             International Development Agency
IDC             Industrial Development Corporation
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF             International Monetary Fund
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
OAS             Organization of American States
OECS            Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PDAP            Project Development Assistance Program
PSIP            Public Sector Investment Program
SAC             Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF             Structural Adjustment Facility
UNDP            United Nations Development Programme
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMNARY                                                  i-i
RThe  Economc ................            ... ...     ............ . ...... 2
Background& ...... oo...... .*  ........ *.*......   ......... 
Recent Economic Performance ... *#....................       ........ + 2
Medium-term Objectives and Strategy ......... .. ..... .... ...... .3
External Financing Requirements ...............  ...... ..  ......... .4
II.    The Government's Policy Initiatives ...........4 . ..
III.   Structural Adiustment Issues and the SAC Program  .. ..........6
Trade, Tax Reform and Investment Incentives ...................to...6
Agriculture ..  ......... to ........ *  .......... ....... ......... 12
Public Sector Investment Program . ..........................   13
Government Wages and Employment Policies .................... 14
IV.    Medium-term Outlook .......... . ... ... . ........ . ........ 16
V.     The Proposed Operation......... ......... # ........ too ....... 0..  18
History, ......18....0   ..  .t  ... #.....00..i
The Proposed Credit and Policy Actions .................             18
Benefits .............. ,O. ....to.........8...  i
R:isks..  ........#o*** ....o ....... l*..9
Social Impact...... ............to ........ l........ *... ..... . 19
Tranching, Disbursement and Procurement.................  ....20
VI.    Bank Group Operations and Strategy   ...................to.......21
VII.   The Structural Adjustment Credit and the IMF SAF..Y ......      .....22
VIII.  Recommendation ............................ .....   ..... 23
ANNEXES
I.     Economic Indicators and Balance of Payments ..................... 24
II.    Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominica..  .......to....... 27
III.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet ......4..44444444.444.4.4..4.... 28
IV.    Statement of Development Policies .... o444444444444444 4........ 30
V.     Policy Matrix for Structural Adjustment Credit Program ..........*41
MAP
This document has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:                  Commonwealth of Dominica
Beneficiary:               Commonwealth of Dominica
Amount:                    SDR 2.4 million (US$3 million equivalent)
TeLms:                     Standard
Cofinancing:               The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) will provide
parallel financing of US$2 million in support of
the Government's structural adjustment program.
Program Description:       The proposed credit would support the
Government's three-year structural adjtstment
program along with the IMF, the CDB, and the
USAID. Overall the Government's program aims at
raising the sustainable growth rate and
strengthening fiscal and balance of payments
performance by improving the incentive framework
for investment and exports and enhancing the
efficiency of government operations. More
specifically, the credit would support a reform
program encompassing: (i) trade, tax and
investment policies; (ii) agricultural sector
policies; (iii) public sector investment
formulation and monitoring; and (iv) public
sector wages and employment policy. The credit
would finance all imports with the exception of
luxury items, military goods, alcoholic beverages
and tobacco products.
Risks:                     The principal risks attending the success of the
program are: (i) the country's susceptibility to
periodic natural disasters; (ii) the uncertainty
of the response from the small and relatively
weak private sector; and (iii) the uncertainty of
export markets.
Estimated Disbursements: The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed in
three tranches: US$1 million equivalent upon
effectiveness, and US$1 million equivalent after
each of two performance reviews to be held about



- {i -
seven months and sixteen months after credit
effectiveness.
Staff Appraisal Reports   Not applicable.
Maps                       IBRD No. 13502R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTiVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO DOMINICA FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Commonwealth of Dominica of SDR 2.4 million (US$3.0 million
equivalent), in support of its Structural Adjustment Program. In addition,
US$2.0 million in parallel financing would be provided by the CDB.
I. THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Dominica, Priorities and Prospects
for Development' (No. 5421-DOM) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 29, 1985. The joint Policy Framework Paper was considered by the
Executive Directors meeting as the Committee of the Whole on November 18,
1986. Annex I contains the basic country data.
Background
3.       Dominical is a small (750 sq.km) mountainous island, the economy
of which is based primarily on agriculture (about 30% of GDP). Its
principal natural resources are its largely unexploited tropical forests
and its, many swift rivers, which have potential for hydropower. Extraction
difficulties have so far constrained the development of the forest
resources. However, Dominica derives the bulk of its electricity
requirements from hydropower.
4.       Dominica has a sizable agricultural export sector, consisting
mainly of bananas, coconut products and citrus fruits. However, the
relatively high production cost and disease and marketing problems in the
past have constrained the growth of these exports. A small manufacturing
sector (7% of GDP), consisting mainly of agro-based industries and some
enclave industries, is oriented toward exports, primarily to the Caribbean
Common Msrket (CARICOM). The growth of manufacturing has been hampered by
inadequate infrastructure and limited local entrepreneurial talent,
especially with regard to marketing, and since 1984 also by increased
economic difficulties and trade restrictions within the CARICOM region.
The tourism sector is small, at only 1X of GDP. Dominica does not have
significant white sand beaches but offers other natural tourist attractions
that could be appealing to nature lovers and excursionists. Again,
however, it has limited infrastructure and mainagement skills for tourism
and has not been actively engaged in tourism promotion. Government
services, construction, transportation and commerce are the other major
sectors, accounting together for the remaining 62% of GDP.
/1 Dominica is a member of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the
Eastern Caribbean Central Bank (ECCB).



-2-
5.       Dominica faces serious development problems. In this newly
independent, very small island economy, rapid progress is hampered by the
difficult terrain, the paucity of financial and human resources, the low
institutional capability and the limited economic policy tools available.
The productive base is narrow (primarily bananas), productivity is low
(average banana yield is 4 tons per acre compared with 11-14 tons in some
Latin American countries), and while labor is still cheap by North American
standards, real wages have increased rapidly over the last four years,
partially eroding the margin of wage competitiveness that Dominica once had
over its Caribbean neighbors. Dominica is subject to periodic natural
disasters, such as hurricanes and windstorms, and the consequent severe
destruction of large parts of its productive base and infrastrurture.
Substantial external assistance since independence eight years ago,
equivalent to 18%-20% of GDP, supports the present standard of living, with
per capita income estimated at some US$1,160 in 1985.
6.       A major policy constraint has been the fixed exchange rate system
(at EC$2.7 per US$1 since July 1976), coupled with strong wage pressures.
The institutional arrangements under which Dominica shares a common
currency and central bank as one of the seven members of the OECS are, on
balance, beneficial to the members of the currency union. However, they
limit the use of the exchange rate as a policy tool. Et;ective exchange
rate movements vary widely among the member states rendering it difficult
to reach the unanimous agreement required for a rate adjustment.
(Comparative data indicate effective appreciations ranging from 5% to 31%
among the countries between 1980 and 1986, second quarter, with Dominica's
being 19%). Wages policy thus becomes a critical tool for macroeconomic
policy. As such however, it has been of limited effect in recent years.
Labor unions in Dominica are powerful, particularly the Civil Service
union, and the collective bargaining system locks in wage agreements for
three years. Therefore, the last few years of low inflation have seen
sharply rising real wages, with the government sector setting the pace.
Annual wage increases averaged 6% to 8% in real terms during 1982 to 1985.
Recent Economic Petformance
7.       After recovering strongly in 1980-81 from the damage caused by
hurricanes in 1979, real GDP rose at ar. average annual rate of close to 3%
in 1982-85. While agriculture and manufacturing contributed to this
growth, much of it was attributable to reconstruction and rehabilitation
investments, including a major roads program financed with external
assistance, part of which came from IDA. In 1985, GDP slowed
considerably --to 1.1% compared with 6% in 1984. Completion of the roads
project as well as declines in agriculture and tourism accounted for the
slowdown. Growth recovered to 4% in 1986 based on particularly strong
growth in banana output. In 1982-85, wages increased significantly faster
than consumer prices, although the rate of increase slowed.
8.       The reconstruction efforts were accompanied by stabilization
programs, supported by financial arrangements from the IMF; these measures
brought about significant improvements in public finances. The Central
Government's current balance moved from a deficit of 10.2% of GDP in
1980181 to an estimated surplus of 0.9% in FY85/86, the result of
expenditure restraints and revenue measures. Similarly, the public
enterprises, which had been a drain on the budget, have improved their



-3-
financial performance from a current account deficit of 7% of GDP in
1980181 to a surplus of 0.3% of GDP in 1985186. This trend reflects better
expenditure controls, regular reviews of their pricing policy and a
strengthening of management. Still, despite these improvements, public
sector investment (21% of GDP in FY84/85) continues to be financed almost
entirely with external assistance. Further, in order to meet its financing
nr-ds, the Government has required program assistance from abroad.
9.       The external accounts also improved with the economic recovery.
The current account deficit, which registered 35% of GDP in 1981, narrowed
to 14% of GDP by 1983. However, this trend was not sustained. As
investment-related imports increased during execution of the major roads
project and export growth faltered with the slowdown in production in 1985,
the deficit widened to 21% of GDP in 1984 and 1985. These deficits have
been financed mainly by project-related capital inflows on grant and soft-
loan terms.
10.      Dominica's development efforts in the last few years involved a
rapid accumulation of external debt, which almost doubled between 1981 and
1985. At US$48.5 million in 1985, the debt represented a ratio of 1.29 to
exports of goods and non-factor services and 51% of GDP. While the average
terms are concessional, the debt service, including service of the IMF
debt, is 11% of exports of goods and non-factor services. Because of
institutional arrangements that limit the macro policy instruments
available to Dominica., a nore critical indicator of the debt burden is its
impact on the government's finances.  In 1985, external debt service
represented some 15% of government revenues.
Medium-Term Objectives and Strateay
11.      The challenge for Dominica is to develop a diversified and
competitive economic structure so as to expand exports and improve the
country's creditworthiness. Although bananas continue to be exported to
the UK at a preference price, and root crops have a good market in nearby
islands, other exports have encountered market constraints in their
traditional outlets. The citrus industry virtually collapsed in recent
years because of the loss of its UK market to competition by Israel where
technological advance is permitting the production of early fruit. Soil
and climatic conditions are good for a number of tree crops producing
exotic fruits, as well as for mountain coffee and other high value crops
such as tropical flowers and ornamental foliage. In pursuing agricultural
diversification along these lines the task is to identify markets and
promote commercial-scale operations.
12.      Full development of the country's agricultural potential will go a
long way toward raising export earnings, income and employment, and the
Government's development efforts give priority to agriculture and to
fostering agroprocessing as an outlet for agricultural products. In
addition, there is potential for limited tourism development and for some
manufacturing activities besides agro-processing. The development strategy
aims to foster these activities by improving investment incentives and
strengthening promotion.
13.      Under its structural adjustment program, Dominica aims to realize
its potential in these areas by adopting policies and programs that will



-
create the right environment for productive investment by the private
sector and for export growth. The issue of Dominica's international
competitiveness has to be addressed. At present, virtually no exports are
traded at world prices, some 90% being sold in preferential markets. In
the absence of a flexible exchange rate instrument, the Government will
have to place primary reliance on controlling the growth of real wages.
This policy will maintain the attractiveness of Dominica's low skilled
labor for labor-intensive light manufacturing activities and help to
contain the cost of its tourism product.
14.      Dominica's macroeconomic objectives for the 1986/87-88/89 period
are encapsulated in the goal of increasing GDP growth from an estimated
1.1% in 1985 to 3.5-4.0% over the next three years, and are predicated on
the sectoral and macroeconomic programs and policies put in place in recent
years as well as those proposed over the program period. The implications
of this broad objective for other macroeconomic indicators are summarized
in the key indicators table in Annex I and discussed in de*ail in Section
IV. The principal proximate objectives include maintaining relatively high
investment rates of about 28% of GDP (investment averaged 30% during 1981-
85) and raising exports (particularly of agriculture and also of tourism).
These are to be accompanied by a containment and rationalization of
government expenditures with a view to raising public sector savings, a
reform of the tax system and a prudent external debt management policy.
The balance of payments would be strengthened through the growth of
exports, and the current account deficit is expected to decline by about
four percentage points from the 1985 deficit of 21% of GDP.
External Financing Requirements
15.      Dominica's external assistance requirements are related mainly to
the public sector investment program which is designed to foster the
economic objectives stated earlier. In recent years, public sector
investment has emphasized economic infrastructure and support for directly
productive activities. This focus will continue over the medium term as
the economic diversification efforts proceed and investments are directed
at meeting the infrastructural requirements for a growth-oriented economy.
In addition, efforts will be intensified to improve Dominica's
administrative capability so that it can reduce the heavy dependence on
external assistance in the management of the public sector investment
program (PSIP).
16.      Total external assistance requirements of Dominica over the
program period, 1986/87-1988/89, would average about US$23 million
annually, or about 21% of the projected GDP. The bulk of this assistance
would be project related, with non-project assistance requirements
accounting for US$11.5 million over the three years, or about 17% of the
total.
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S POLICY INITIATIVES
17.      Since coming to power in 1980, Prime Minister Charles' Government
has launched important policy and program initiatives. The IMF programs
(EFF and Stand-bys) and the need for reconstruction after the devastating



- s -
hurricanes provided the initial impetus; aeveral policy reforms have since
been introduced, primarily in the area of public finances, but also in
other economic sectors. Thus, under the IMF programs, the Government
broadened the revenue base, raised taxes and strengthened the revenue
collection mechanism. The statutory bodies and public enterprises, which
had been a drain on the budget, were either eliminated or required to be
independent of the budget through better management and tariff increases.
Moreover, the process of streamlining the public sector operations 1*-s
continued since completion of the IMF programs. The Port Authority gas
restructured in 1984, with some of its operations privatized and its
employment reduced to improve its financial viability, and in 1985 tax
concessions were withdrawn from three major enterprises--the External Trade
Bureau (ETB), Dominica Electricity Services (DOMLEC) and the National
Commercial Bank, all of them formerly exempt from import duties and other
taxes. These measures to broaden the tax base were complemented by
intensified tax collection efforts accompanying the reorganization of the
Department of Internal Revenue with the help of a USAID-financed tax
administration advisor. In its 1986/87 budget, the Government announced
additional public sector reform measuress the Central Water Authority
(CWA) is to be reorganized so as to reduce its high overhead costs and make
it financially viable; and port charges have been raised.  The Government
has embarked on an administrative reform to improve the efficiency of the
civil service and to control the growth of, and where possible reduce,
manpower.
18.      The Government's policy initiatives have extended as well to the
productive sectors of the economy. Much of the Government's efforts have
been directed toward reviving the major agricultural subsectors of bananas
and citrus where, in the one case, productivity and output levels were
lagging anl, in the other, market outlets were the main constraint. For
bananas, the Government adopted programs and policies whose ultimate effect
has been to raise the price to the grower. A major restructuring exercise
carried out in 1984 with financial assistance from USAID and technical
assistance from the UK has streamlined the operations of the Banana
Marketing Corporation (BMC) and helped to phase in advanced harvesting
techniques. Both developments have resulted in higher returns to farmers.
The most recent program aimed at enhancing the price to the grower i8 a
scheme to refinance the large outstanding debts of the corporation to the
domestic commercial banks, so that the debt service costs of the BMC can be
reduced. This scheme for banana expansion was funded by a soft loan from
the UK.
19.      To help revive the citrus industry, the Government in 1983
reactivated the abandoned citrus processing plant, in partnership with
private sbareholders, and in 1985 it secured a 5-year contract in the US
for processed citrus fruit. With this market stimulus to production in
place, the Government supported the restructuring of the grapefruit
marketing organization so as to improve its management and operating
efficiency. These policylprogram initiatives for the major crops have been
supplemented by investment projects for the development and expansion of
these and other crops, such as coconuts and tree crops, and for essential
supporting Infrastructure, such as feeder roads in addition to the major
roads reconstruction program financed with external assistance, including
IDA.



6-
20.      To bring unutilized lands Into cultivation and redistribute the
large estaze holdings that have come into government ownership over time,
the Government also launched a program of land distribution and settlement
under an Integrated rural development project, designed by the Organization
of American States (OAS) in 1983-84 and with credit financing from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD).
21.      The Government has recently also turned its attention to the
tourism sector. It has, with the help of an advisor financed by the
European Community (EEC), outlined a tourism development strategy, the
thrust of which is to target promotional efforts at tour operators on the
nearby tourist islands, particularly the French islands of Guadeloupe and
Martinique, and to offer joint tour packages with St. Christopher and Nevis
and St. Vincent and the Grenadines. It has been estimated that if Dominica
could attract 52 of the visitors of these islands, its tourist arrivals
would double.
III. STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT ISSUES AND THE SAC PROGRAM
22.      The realization of Dominica's macroeconomic objectives will depend
upon the policy underpinnings in the structural adjustment program. The
actions already taken in agriculture and public sector management have
established a good foundation for further adjustment. In addition to
continued stabilization supported by the IMP through a Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF) arrangement - details are outlined in Section VII
- the policy reforms under the proposed Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
encompass four major areas:
(i)    rrade, Tax Reform and Investment Incentives
(i)   Agricultural Sector Policies
(iii)  Improved Public Investment Programs
(iv)   Public Sector Wages and Employment Policies
The policy actions are summarized In the policy matrix for the proposed
structural adjustment credit attached as Annex IV. Their main features and
their links to the macroeconomic objectikes are described below.
(i) Trade, Tax Reform and Investment Incentives
23.      The central issue is that of creating an economic environment
conducive to productive investment, particularly export-oriented
investment. Outside of the predominently small-farm activities of
traditional agriculture and the distributive trades, entrepreneurial
activity exists on a very small scale. Twenty-five registered
manufacturing firms employ about 720 workers, or some 8% of the non-
agricultural workforce. Almost 601 of these are employed by three of the
firms, one being an agro-processing company that has a sizable export
business in soap products. The Government would like to see a greater
development of manufacturing and has put in place some of the standard
incentives and institutions, including fiscal incentives in the form of tax
holidays and exemption from import duties; an industrial development
corporation; and a development finance corporation. Dominica is also part
of a USAID-financed regional Project Development and Assistance Program
(PDAP) aimed at attracting foreign investment to the OECS.



- 7 -
24.      Nevertheless, to date the results of these efforts have not been
imp=essiva. A listing of the factors that work against the development of
a dynamic investment environment in Dominica would include the possible
marginality of Dominica's competitiveness, given its rising real wages; its
relative inaccessibility, given the absence of an international airport and
night landing facilities and inadequate airline services; high, and complex
tax structures, both direct and indirect, in part determined by Dominica's
membership in the regional customs union, CARICOM; complex investment
application procedures and customs administration; and inadequate
investment promotion. While correcting some sub-set of these problems
would not be sufficient to stimulate high and rising levels of private
sector investment, addressing all of them would certainly improve the
investment environment. Some, particularly the exchange rate aspects of
competitiveness and improved accessibility, have to be addressed over time,
as their solution involves Dominica's institutional arrangements with its
ECCB partners in the one case, and the support of external donors in the
other.
Exchange Rate Policy
25.      The persistently large resource gap, equivalent to 252 of GDP in
1985, and rapidly rising real wages in recent years indicate a need for
Dominica to improve its competitiveness, and raise questions about the
appropriateness of the exchange rate for Dominica's economic development.
Dominica's membership in the common central bank, ECCB, limits its ability
to use exchange rate policy to adjust its economic structure. However, the
recent depreciation of the US dollar has reversed much of the exchange rate
appreciation that occurred between 1981 and 1985. Under the structural
adjustment program the Government proposes to adopt an active wages policy
to limit wage increases, thus addressing the competitiveness problem from
the cost side (see below, para. 40 iv(a)). Nevertheless, in the long-term
context, Dominica must assess the realism of its exchange rate policy. The
Government intends to cdntinue to review periodically exchange rate
developments with other members of the ECCB. The Government intends also
to include a review of the competitiveness of the economy as part of its
preparation of a macroeconomic development strategy and implementation plan
for Dominica.
Action Program
i(a) Competitiveness Review
Action to be taken:
-   prior to release of the second tranche, the Government will
have prepared a macroeconomic development strategy and
implementation plan, including inter alia macroeconomic
analysis, sectoral analysis, and a review of the
competitiveness of the economy. Satisfactory progress in
carrying out the implementation plan would be a condition or
third tranche release.
Trade Policy
26.      Dominica's commercial policy conforms in the main to the
requirements of its membership in the CARICOM customs union which has a



-8-
common external tariff (CET). The structure of Dominica's tariff, however,
is the combination of the CET and consumption taxes, stamp duties and other
charges on Imports imposed for revenue purposes. The resulting effective
tariff structure is quite high and variable, the average degree of nominal
protection allowed being of the order of 362, with the combined tariff and
consumption tax varying from O t^ 1042. The consumption tax, as currently
applied, significantly increases t .e variance of the tariff. While such
high levels and dispersion of taxes on foreign trade are not conducive to
an efficient allocation of resources as between production for the domestic
and export markets, in practice, the very small size of Dominica's domestic
market forces all activity of any viable size to be export oriented. Thus,
there is no significant import substitution activity in Dominica that is
not also exporting, at least to the CARICOM market. The CARICOM market of
course offers significant protection.
27.      However, actions are in train, both at the national and regional
levels to adjust the tariff structure in the direction of increased
neutrality and lower effective protection. At the national level, the
consumption tax is under examination as part of the comprehensive tax
reform study underway in Dominica with a view to replacing the present
multi-rate consumption tax with a flat rate.  Reform of this tax will
remove some of the most serious distortions associated with the trade
policy. At the regional level, the CET is currently under review with the
objective of adjusting the tariff code to a commodity basis, as against the
present end-use classification. The intention is to reduce the present
discrimination in favor of raw materials imports and move the tariff
structure towards greater uniformity. The review includes the harmonized
system of fiscal incentives which provides duty exemption on imported
inputs. This scheme is to be adjusted to conform with the overall
objective of the tariff review. CARICOM's program for regional adjustments
is a regular item on the agenda of the Caribbean Group, permitting the Bank
to monitor the developments. The present timetable calls for adjustments
to the CIT to be introduced starting in 1989. Considering Dominica's small
domestic market and its reliance on regional cooperation, the reform of its
tariff would best be conducted in the framework of the proposed regional
adjustments. However, the Government would be expected to reform the
consumption tax as described I{ the following action program.
Action Program
i(b) The Consumption Tax
Action to be takent
-   prior to credit effectiveness, the Government will agree that
the consumption tax adjustments to be included in the proposed
tax reform package (see para. 30 below) conform to the
objectives of reducing dispersion and removing the
discrimination between domestic production and imports.
Trade Liberalization Policies
28.      At the national level there are ot 'r trade policy measures
available to Dominica that would improve resource allocation and help to
stimulate production. Some have already been implemented. In July 1986
the Government eliminated all export taxes as part of its program to



- 9 -
increase incentives for exporting. Since one-half of the revenues from
this tax had been derived from agricultural exports other than bananas, the
measure La expected to be particularly beneficial to nontraditional
agricultural exports, such as essential oils in which Dominica may have a
comparative advantage. The savings to exporters of essential oils will
amount to 101 of their export receipts. In addition to the reform of the
consumption tax discussed above, outstanding areas to be addressed include
the Import licensing system. Some 200 items of the tariff code constitute
a 'negative list' requiring import licenses, through which import
prohibitions and import quotas are administered. A large number of these
items refer to food crops and vegetables produced locally; a very few refer
to items domestically manufactured (which are also exported); and others
refer to goods produced in other OECS partners. In this last case, the
licensing preserves Dominica's market for its regional partners and in
practice implies that Dominica pays a trade diversion cost greater than
that agreed under the CET.
Action Programs
i(c) Export Taxes. This program has been fully implemented:
- in July 1986, the Government eliminated all export taxes, as
well as the stamp tax on exports.
i(d) Import Liberalization (QRs). The following element of the
program has been implemented:
-   a number of the prohibited and restricted items (71) have been
removed from the negative list, and the restrictions have been
replaced by tariffs.
Action to be taken:
-   prior to release of the second tranche, the Government will
review the remaining negative list of imports and reach
agreement with IDA on a plan of action for its reduction.
Satisfactory progress in tlarrying out the agreed action plan
would be a condition of the third tranche release.
Tax Policy
29.      Dominica's tax system has developed over the years largely in
response to revenue needs and currently exhibits a tax revenue to GDP ratio
of 28.41. It is characterized by a steeply progressive personal income
tax, very high dependence on trade taxes, and a complex system of taxes on
the business sector. For example, taxable income of EC$8,000 (US$2,963)
attracts a marginal tax of 301; and taxable Income of EC$25,000 attracts a
marginal tax of 502. The business sector faces, in addition to income and
company tax, five different levies mainly on imported items. Many
discretionary levies imposed over the years have given the system a high
degree of complexity, and led to a climate of uncertainty for the business
community. On the other hand, there is no national property tax, and
agricultural income, despite its importance, is exempt. Thus, the tax
system is complex, and has serious negative incentive and equity aspects.
30.      Some measures have already been taken to reduce the disincentive
effect of the tax system. During 1985 and 1986, the Government removed all



- 10 -
taxes on local commercial bank deposits and reduced the company profits tax
and the customs service charge for manufacturing firms. To consider the
fullest possible simplification and restructuring of the tax system, the
Government launched, with technical assistance, a full review of the tax
system with a view to reforming the tax system to remove likely
disincentives. The review encompassed direct as well as indirect taxes,
including the consumption tax. The tax reform to be introduced is intended
to be revenue neutral. Preliminary results of the study, however, do not
support optimism that average rates for any major taxes can be lowered
markedly without a net loss of revenue. The overall base is just too
narrow and closable loopholes too few to have this result. Nevertheless,
there does appear to be scope for improving incentives by simplifying the
tax structure, consolidating taxes and lowering the highest marginal
rates. There is also scope for broadening the base by extending the tax to
agriculture which is the main productive-sector. Dominica's fiscal
constraints would dictate that, in any tax reform, the preservation of
revenues should be a major objective. However, given the limited taxable
capacity, and already high revenue to GDP ratio of 28.4%, the Government
may find it difficult to implement an effective tax reform that was also
revenue neutral. It is the intention of the Government that no substantive
chan&es in the tax code will be made except as part of an overall tax
reform package agreed with IDA. If the agreed tax package is not revenue
neutral, it would be Implemented only after external grants would have been
secured to cover the temporary revenue loss.
Action Program
i(e) Tax Reform. The following element of the program has been
implemented:
- the Government conducted a full review of the tax system with
technical assistance.
Actions to be taken:
- prior to credit effectiveness the Government will reach
agreement with IDA on the broad principles of its proposed tax
reform, including the reform of the consumption tax as in vara.
27, i(b) above, and extension of the tax to agricultural income
or wealth.
- prior to release of the second tranche, the Government will
reach agreement with IDA on its proposed tax package, including
implementation schedule, prior to enactment.
- satisfactory progress on tax reform implementation will be a
condition of the third tranche release.
Incentive Administration
31.      Administrative disincentives to investment exist in the numerous
and overlapping reviews that investment applications undergo. Each
application must be reviewed at five levels, including the Industrial
Development Corporation (IDC) and its Board and three ministerial levels.
Scrutiny at each level is likely to result in changes that must be
renegotiated, sometimes more than once, with the prospective investor. In



- 11 -
a few cases, the process has been extended, and the outcome appears to have
been arbitrary. The overall effect is to render the environment for
private investment relatively unattractive and uncertain. Improving the
official investment climate for prospective investors is particularly
important, as it is one of the few factors influencing investor decisions
over which the Government has some control. One aspect of the climate that
needs to be improved is the application process for obtaining fiscal
incentives. The Government's promotion strategy also needs to be
strengthened if it is to achieve its objective of economic diversification.
The Government intends to merge the Industrial Development Corporation
(IDC) and the Tourist Board for greater efficiency of operations. It is
also revising its promotion strategy to emphasize overseas promotion for
investment attraction, and special target groups for tourism expansion,
with the objective of doubling tourist arrivals over a five-year period.
32.      Customs administration also offers scope for improvement in
valuation and in the application of the consumption tax on domestic
manufacturers and the control of leakage of duty-free goods. The lack of
adequate assessment criteria and appropriate auditing procedures result In
arbitrary enforcement of the tax code and reduce the tax base.
Action Program
i(f) Investment Application Procedures. This program has been
implemented:
-   during the process of appraisal and negotiation of the SAC,
the Government developed a simplified system of investment
application reviews. Applications will be considered by the
IDC Board and the interministerial Review Committee sitting
together as a single review panel, in effect combining two
steps. Following this review, the investment application and
attached comments by the IDC will be prepared in the form of a
Cabinet document and submitted to the Cabinet for approval.
This latter step is essentially a formality, and only the IDC
negotiates with the investor. If the procedure works
properly, five steps will in effect be collapsed so as to
convert the IDC into a 'one-stop' agency for investment
approvals. Full implementation of the revised procedures has
been accomplished.
i(g) Customs Administration Reform. This program has been
implemented:
-   during the process of appraisal and negotiation of the SAC,
the Government obtained technical assistance from a customs
advisor to improve enforcement procedures and skills; the
advisor also provided recommendations and training to improve
assessment and auditing procedures for the application of the
consumption tax to domestic manufacturers and for the control
of leakage of duty free imports into the domestic market. The
improved systems have been put in place.



- 12 -
1(h) Promotion Strategy. The following element of the program has
been implemented:
- during the appraisal and negotiation process the Government
developed a focused strategy for investment promotion with
emphasis on overseas promotion and for tourism promotion with
emphasis on specialised target groups, and reached agreement
with IDA on its expenditure program for the IDC and the
Tourist Board for 1987/88.
Actions to be taken:
- prior to release of the second tranche the Government will
complete the merger of the IDC and the Tourist Board.
-   prior to release of the second tranche the Government will
reach agreement with IDA on the expenditure program for the
merged IDC for 1988/89.
(ii) Asriculture
33.      The agricultural sector must provide the major impetus in
Dominica's growth effort, as it is the largest productive and exporting
sector. Banana and coconut production are on the increase, in response to
major rehabilitation projects since the 1979 hurricane and government
policy measures for institutional strengthening. Banana output in
particular surged by almost 502 in 1986, helped also by the strengthening
of the pound sterling, the currency of the major banana export market.
Exports of root crops are also expanding.
34.      The major constraint on the sector's performance is the high cost
of production associated with a small and mountainous country. Dominica
cannot compete internationally in agricultural commodities such as bananas
and coconuts, its treditional crops. Preference agreements in the UK and
CARICOM support the country's export earnings. The country needs to
diversify into specialty crops such as mountain coffee and exotic fruits
and is taking steps to do so.
35.      The Government's policy emphasis is on agricultural
diversification--mountain coffee, mangoes, avocadoes, essential oils,
flowers--while increasing productivity of traditional export crops.
Virtually all agricultural production is carried out by the private sector.
The Government, however, provides institutional support and sponsors
externally financed projects. A government-sponsored tree-crop planting
program is financed by the UK, was completed in 1985. The diversification
program makes heavy demands of the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) limited
technical staff. While the variety in MOA's program ofE activities is
appropriate to the economy's diversification requirements, the MOA needs to
be strengthened by improving the quality and productivity of the staff and
by improving employment conditions. The situation is particularly acute in
the extension service which has the main responsibility for disseminating
information and techniques developed under the several diversification
projects. The ratio of extension staff to farmers is low considering the
difficult terrain and Inaccessibility of farming districts, and the
multiplicity of present and potential crops. A strategy for upgrading the
skills of the extension staff is required.



- 13 -
Action Programs
IL(*) Aaricultural Extension
Action to be takent
prior to release of the second trencho, the Government would
prepare a plan of action for upgrading the skills of the
extension staff. The action plan should be directly linked to
the work program of the MOA, and would Include provisions for
training and for improving trsasportation associated with
extension work. Satisfactory lmplementation of lhe plan would
be a condition of the third tranche release.
ii(b) Price Controls. This program has been implemented fully.
- during the process of appraisal and negotiation of the SAC, the
Government reduced the number of price controlled items from 24
to 9, liberalising in the process the prices of livestock
products, excepting cheaper cuts of poultry. The remaining
items are mainly basic Imported food items such as evaporated
milk and baby foods.
(iII) Public Sector Investment Program (PSIP)
36.      A capability within the Government to formulate a public sector
investment program that articulates the role of public investment in the
development strategy would be an Important step toward Institution building
in the Government. Development of this capability Is urgently required in
view of the termination at the end of 1986 of the Inter-Agency Resident
Mission that had provided substantial assistance In preparing projectized
investment program and financing plasw. While CDB has agreed to carry on
much of the Inter-Agency missionsa work on the PSIPs, the OECS members
would be expected to increase their own capabilities for program
formulation and monitoring.
37.      These issues aside, the PSIP for the program period of the three
years is consistent with the Government's objective of supporting private
sector activity in order to attain higher rates of economic growth.   The
Government intends to develop its capability for formulating three-year
rolling programs with realistic finsacing plans. It has obtained technical
assistance for macro planniag and project coordination and expects in the
near future to obtain technical assistance in sector planning. The aim ts
to strengthen the capacity of the Economic Development Unit (EDU)
established in the Ministry of Finance for project Identification in a
medium-term fraework. One of the main outputs expected is the
macroeconomic development strategy, including competitiveness review,
referred to in pars. 25 above. Technical assistance is also being sougL_
to provide training and support to project officers in the key Ministries
of Agriculture, Trade, Industry and Tourism; Cosmunication and Worksg
Education; and Health. Like all Institutional reform efforts, this is
likely to be a gradual process.
Action Proarams
iii(a) Core Programs. The following element of the program has
been implemented:



- 14 -
- the Government has reached agreement with IDA on the
composition of a core public investment program for 1987/88 in
the framework of a three-year program; and on the expenditure
programs for the IDC and the Tourist Board (including recurrent
expenditure; see para. 32, i(h) above).
Action to be taken:
- prior to release of the second tranche the Government would
reach agreement with IDA on a core PSIP for 1988189, as well as
on an expenditure program for the merged IDC for 1988189. (see
para. 32, i(h)).
iii(b) PSIP Formulation. The following elements of the program
have been implementeds
- the EDU has been incorporated into the Ministry of Finance
where it will be accountable to the Minister.
-  the Government has prepared a time-phased program of activities
involving the EDU and key ministries, aimed at strengthening
the ability to formulate and monitor a three-year rolling PSIP.
The program includes procedures for annual policy reviews and
eventual integration of the PSIP process with the capital
budgeting process.
Action to be taken:
- Satisfactory implementation of the program will be a condition
of second and third tranche releases.
(iv) Government Wates and Employment Policies
38.      The primary role of fiscal policy has been underlined.  Two
critical areas require improved public sector management: public sector
wages and public employment policies. Under Dominica's restrictive
macroeconomic policy framework, wage policy becomes a particularly critical
determinant of export competitiveness and macroeconomic performance. Given
the Government's dominant role in the labor market as the single largest
employer, the high share of wages in recurrent government expenditure (58Z)
and government's image as pacesetter in wage agreements, public sector
wages and employment are a major instrument for structural adjustment in
Dominica.
39.      The strength of the Civil Service Association, and the three-year
duration of wage contracts, have made it difficult to control the growth of
real wages. 'While three-year contracts have ensured greater stability in
industrial relations, they have at the same time reduced the scope for wage
flexibility. Under the last three-year contract, 1982-84, the civil
service enjoyed annual real increases of 62 to 82. The present contract,
1985186-1987188, was settled at unsatisfactorily high levels (nominal
increases of 8.52, 5% and 72 in each of the three fiscal years through June
1988), affording annual real increases of about 2%-5. The Government
intends to adopt a strict policy of wage restraint over the medium-term.
The growth of the Government's wage bill is to be contained and efforts
will be made to strengthen the wage negotiation process in the public



- 15 -
enterprises, which in the past has been weak, and the Government will not
increase the minimum wage during the program period.
40.      As regards the size of the civil service, it is not clear at this
time what scope there is for reductions. The Government points out that
the administrative core of the service is small--500 out nf a total civil
service of 2,332, approximately 102 of the work force, the bulk of the
remainder being educational and medical staff, security forces and
technicians in engineering and agriculture. Thus, it is the Government's
belief that significant reductions may not be possible. Nevertheless, the
Government intends to explore likely avenues for reductions in its work -
force. It has launched an Organization and Methods (O&1W) exercise designed
to raise civil service productivity and also to examine the manpower
requirements of the civil service with a view to effecting economies
wherever possible. The first two phases of the exercise are complete with
the exception of about 107 of the job analyses.
Action Programs
iv(a) Wage Policy. The following elements of the program have
been implemented:
-  in FY86/87, the Government has abolished thb automatic annual
increments for civil servants; a measure that will save 22 of
the 1986187 budget.
- the Government has decided to limit the wage bill increases to
3% per year under the next three year contract, 1988189-
1990/91; and to grant no increase in the minimum wage during
the program period. In addition, the share of the civil
service salaries in relation to total recurrent revenues before
the proposed tax reform has been targeted to decline from about
532 in 1985f86 to no more than 502 in 1988/89, and in relation
to total recurrent expenditures has been targeted to remain
constant over the program period at about 561.
Actions to be taken:
- The Government will implement the agreed wage policy (i.e., the
32 limit on wage bill increases, a freeze on the minimum wage
and the targeted relationships between civil service salaries
and recurrent revenues and expenditures) prior to release of
the second and third tranches.
- The Government will introduce legislation to establish
procedures for wage negotiations in the public sector as a
whole to streamline the wage bargaining process prior to
release of the second tranche.
iv(b) Employment Policy. The following elements of the program
have been implemented:
- the Government dissolved the Central Water Authority with the
intention of creating a smaller agency with 30% lower
employment.
- the Government launched the 0 & M exercise designed to raise
the efficiency of the civil service and examine the manpower
requirements with a view to effecting economies. 



- 16 -
Action to be taken:
- completion of Phase III of the 0 & M exercise prior to release
of the second trsnche.
IV. MEDIUM-TERM OUTLOOK
41.      Generally good economic management, coupled with substantial
external assistance, has produced some strengthening in Dominica's economic
performance. While results have been most notable in public finances, the
productive base has also strengthened, particularly agriculture, through
efficiency gains from the restructuring of the banana industry and the
rehabilitated major road network. The challenge in the period ahead is to
maintain the momentum through fully exploiting the traditional sector while
pursuing a vigorous program of agricultural and sectoral diversification.
42.      The structural adjustment program outlined in Section III is
designed to improve the macroeconomic, incentive and Itstitutional
framework to complement efforts being made through the public sector
investment program. The medium-term projections take into account the long
gestation period of many of the diversification projects underway, such as
tree-crops, the lengthy start-up time for short gestation non-traditional
activities such as prawn farming, the market risks associated with breaking
into new markets with new products, the dominance of agriculture and the
small size and relative weakness of the non-agricultural private sector.
Thus, while the tax reform and trade policy measures of the structural
adjustment program are aimed directly at stimulating these nontraditional
sectors, strong impact from these sectors would be expected to result only
from the consistent application of appropriate policies over time. Medium-
term economic performance therefore continues to depend strongly on the
banana industry.
43.      The major growth areas of the economy are therefore projected to
be agriculture, led by bananas, and transport which is now closely linked
to banana production since the privatization of the packing operations
(field packing) has greatly stimulated road transportation. Both the
agriculture and transport sectors, together accounting for 43S of GDP at
factor cost, are projected to grow at S annually. GrowtL in manufacturing
is projected at 7S annually for the next two years, rising to almost 91 by
1990. This moderate scenario (for a small sector with plenty of scope for
expansion) assumes a gradual response to the policy improvements being
adopted under the structural adjustment program; nevertheless, it suggests
an overall  improvement compared to the last four years, and is projected on
the expectation of moderate growth in both local entrepreneurial
enterprises and direct foreign investment. Tourism, which has been spurred
in the last year by expansions of hotel accommodation, is projected to grow
in real terms by 101 to 151 a year, assuming successful lmpelementation of
the new promotion strategy aimed at doubling stay-over visitors in five
years.



- 17 -
44.      On the expenditure side, the projections reflect the need in
Dominica for relatively high rates of investment, and these are projected
to stabilize at about 28Z of GDP, compared with the average of 301 attained
in the preceding five-year period. The structural adjustment program
envisages a containment and rationalization of government expenditures and
incentives to the private sector by way of a tax reform and strengthening
of institutional services. Thus, a cautious projection of the private
sector response envisages that private investment would grow from about 9%
in GDP in 1985 to an average of 102 of GDP during 1988-1990 with the ratio
of public to private investment changing from 2.2 to 1.8. The envisaged
strengthening of public sector savings will boost domestic savings. Public
sector savings performance is to be led by the growth in Central Government
savings from 0.92 of GDP to 2-3S of GDP. This improvement would result
praimarily from a reduction of the current expenditures to GDY ratio from
about 30.6% in 1985 to 28.22 in 1988, with the revenue to GDP ratio
remaining at about 31 percent. The implication is that the tight
containment of government consumption will permit a modest growth in per
capita private consumption of about 1S per annum.
45.      The balance of payments is to be strengthened through the growth
of merchandise exports at an average 91 per annum and earnings from
tourism. Bananas and coconut products (primarily soap) will continue to
dominate exports, but strong growth is envisaged from nontraditional
agricultural and other exports as existing agricultural diversification
projects reach the production stage, and new activities are established.
They will, however, continue to be a small share of total exports through
the projection period. The projection of import growth reflects the
expected demand for investment goods imports, particularly the heavy
infrastructural content of the public sector investment program. The
import share of GDP is, however, expected to stabilize at about 68X of GDP.
46.      As a result of the projected improvement in the current account of
the balance of payments in relation to GDP, the external assistance
requirements will decline gradually over the projection period. However,
continued assistance is needed to enable Dominica to implement its
adjustment program, mainly because of the financing requirements of the
public sector investment program.   This will imply gross public capital
inflows during the program period of US$23 million per annum on average, of
which about one-half is required on a grant basis, and the remainder on
concessional loan terms.
47.      Dominica9s medium-term prospects, given successful implementation
of the structural adjustment program described above and its complementary
external financing, are modestly favorable, and would be expected to result
in annual GDP growth of 3.5-4% over the next three years.  However, there
are a number of constraints and risks that could hamper the attainment of
these prospects. First, Dominica's macroeconomic policy instruments remain
limited. The country's membership in the Eastern Caribbean currency area,
while on balance beneficial, could become a stumbling block to further
attempts at structurally adjusting the economy. Some flexibility within
the currency area would need to be developed in order to enhance Dominica's
long-term growth prospects, while retaining the main benefits of
membership. Such flexibility is important, should the terms of trade
deteriorate significantly, or should major export markets be again



- 18 -
threatened by more competitive producers, as has occurred with grapefruit.
Second, Dominica's medium-term prospects are conditional upon the incidence
of hurricanes and other natural disasters, which if they were to occur,
would have a deleterious effect on growth and increase the requirement for
concessional assistance. Further, the private sector outside of
agriculture is small and relatively weak and its response to the proposed
incentives cannot be predicted with any certainty. Finally, the success of
Dominica's export drive will be significantly conditioned by its success in
identifying and reaching new markets, particularly for nontraditional
exports, and attracting new tourists. While the structural adjustment
program places adequate emphasis on these efforts, the success of such
marketing programs remains uncertain.
48.      While it is expected that, with adequate levels of external
financing and appropriate policies and programs, the economy would be
strengthened, the constraints inherent in the country's physical structure
and the susceptibility of the productive structure to devastation by
natural disasters may affect the pace of attainment of external viability.
Thus, Dominica's dependence on concessional external assistance may persist
beyond the medium term, albeit at reduced rates.
V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
History
49.      The proposed credit would support the Government's structural
adjustment efforts and is being closely coordinated with assistance from
other donors, particularly an IMF SAF arrangement, already approved, a
proposed program loan by the CDB and a proposed program grant by the USAID.
First discussions with the Government on a structural adjustment program
were conducted in May 1986, jointly with the IMF in the course of preparing
the joint Policy Framework Paper, 1986187-88189. Appraisal of the credit
was completed in January 1987. Negotiations took place in Washington in
April 1987 and the Dominican delegation was led by Mr. Alick Lazare, the
Financial Secretary of Dominica. Annex III contains a timetable of key
events in processing the operation and a description of the special
conditions of the proposed credit.
The Proposed Credit and Policy Actions
50.      The matrix attached in Annex V summarizes the policy actions that
were taken prior to Board presentation and those that will have to be taken
prior to the release of the second and third tranches. A discussion of
these is contained in Part III and in the Government's Statement of
Development Policies which is included in Annex IV. This statement also
describes the actions that the Government is taking under its SAF
arrangement with the IMF.
Benefits
51.      The principal benefits of the structural adjustment operation are
the following: the operation gives impetus and support to the Government



- 19 -
in pursuing its growth and development objectives and vill help the
Government to pursue its policy objectives in a coherent manner within a
structured macroeconomic framework. The public sector administrative and
wage policy reforms will lay the basis for a permanent strengthening of
fiscal performance, an area of high priority for Dominica's economic
development. The performance of the economy should also be strengthened in
a permanent way by the proposed adjustments to the incentive framework for
the private sector, and by improved extension support for the program of
agricultural diversification underway. Some of these benefits,
particularly from the diversification of the economic base, can be expected
to appear in the years beyond the timeframe of the present IDA operation.
However, the resulting strengthening of public finances and the balance of
payments can be expected over time to reduce Dominica's dependence on
concessional aid. A further benefit of the proposed credit is that, in
conjunction with the IMF SAF, it has served as a focal point for the Bank's
aid coordination efforts through the Caribbean Group on behalf of Dominica.
Risks
52.      Dominica's susceptibility to natural disasters, such as
destructive hurricanes, is a constant risk to any operation. Aside from
this, major risks arise from the uncertainties in the international
markets, which require considerable adaptability In the economic structure
of a small open economy like Dominica's. Dominica is still at a very early
stage of development, and is only beginning a process of diversifying its
economic base. Further, the absence of a flexible exchange rate policy
tool limits Dominica's policy options for adjustment (see pars. 47).
Finally, the uncertainty of the response from the country's small and
relatively weak private sector is a clear risk to the success of the
proposed operation which is directed to a considerable extent at
stimulating private sector development. With these risks, Dominica's
dependence on concessional external assistance may persist beyond the
medium term, albeit at reduced rates.
Social Impact
53.      The macroeconomic and structural policies comprising the program
are designed to increase the rate of growth of output and employment in the
economy, with the private sector playIng a leading role. The proposed
policies for reducing disincentives to invest will, over time, stimulate
private sector development and create new employment opportunities. The
Government's agricultural diversification and land distribution and
settlement program will increase access of the low-income rural population
to productive assets. Since Dominica is largely a rural society of
predominantly small farmers, the benefits are likely to be widely spread.
54.      In the short run, however, certain population groups are
particularly vulnerable to the proposed adjustments in government
employment and wages policy. While manpower adjustments in the civil
service are expected to be gradual, the effect of the adjustment program
will be to limit job opportunities in the public sector. School leavers
are the most vulnerable to such reduced opportunities.  The Fourth CDB,
Regional Vocational and Technical Education project, of which Dominica is a



- 20 -
beneficiary, is designed to prepare this group better for alternative labor
market opportunities. This project was approved by the Board for IDA
financing In April, 1987.
55.      Also, the most direct impact of an adjusted wage policy will be
felt by government employees, the growth of whose real incomes wil1 be
reduced. This Impact will occur in full force, however, cily following the
expiry in 1988 of the present three-year civil service contract which
allows annual real increases of 22 to 5%. Because government wage
increases have been a guide to wage settlements elsewhere in the economy,
the adjustments may eventually spread to the private sector, in turn
lowering the growth of real incomes of the urban work force in general.
These effects are, however, desirable adjustments In a wage policy that has
permitted real annual increases of 6S to 81 in recent years, eroding
Dominica's relative wage competitiveness within the OECS. In the absence
of a flexible exchange rate policy instrument, wage restraint is
particularly needed to ensure Dominica's international competitiveness and
the profitability of investments. The freeze on the minimum wage would
also contribute to wage restraint. In the final analysis, a successfal
adjustment program will promote faster growth on a sustainable basis and a
resulting higher level of social welfare.
Tranchins, Disbursement and Procurement
56.      It is proposed that the SAC of US$3 million equivalent be
disbursed over the next two years in three tranches of US$l million
equivalent each, corresponding to consecutive fiscal years of the
Government (which coincide with the Bank's fiscal years). This time period
corresponds with the duration of the IMF SAF and will permit IDA to be
associated with the Government's policy program over an extended period.
57.      The first tranche of the credit Is expected to be disbursed
immediately upon credit effectiveness. The second and third tranches are
expected to be disbursed about nine and eighteen months after effectiveness
following IDA's review and determination that the policy actions that would
have been taken are satisfactory.
58.      The credit would finance the c.i.f. cost of eligible imports
subject to documentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after
credit signing. Public and private sector imports would be eligSible,
except for luxury products, armaments, alcoholic beverages and tobacco
products, as specified in the Credit Agreement, Schedule I. A Special
Account would be established in the Dominica National Commercial Bank (NCB)
which would administer the credit on behalf of the Ministry of Finance.
NCB would be responsible for supplying the Ministry of Finance with
relevant documentation. Disbursements would be made against withdrawal
applications and statements of expenditure prepared by the Ministry of
Finance and supported by copies of NCB's month-end statements. Detailed
supporting documentation would be retained by the Ministry of Finance and
made available for review by IDA as appropriate.
59.      Procurement would be in accordance with IDA's procurement
guidelines. The majority of contracts for general imports are in small



- 21 -
amounts. There would be very few contracts of larger size and these would
have a maximum value of US$500,000.  IDA would not require international
competitive bidding for these. However, all purchases will be made under
practice-  cceptable to IDA. Private firms would follow normal commercial
practice, and public sector Imports would be in accordance with standard
government practices, which onsure reasonable prices.
VI.  BANK GROUP OPERATLONS AND STRATEGY
60.      Dominica gained independence from the United Kingdom in November
1978. It became a uember of the Bank and IDA in Eeptember 1980. The
proposed credit would be the third direct Bank Group operation in the
country. The first direct credit was for Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation - US$5 million equivalent approved in 1982 and completed
satisfactorily in May 1985. The second credit of US$3 million equivalent
for a hydro power project was approved by the Board in March 1987.
61.      The Bank Group lending strategy has been to channel resources to
the OECS countries through the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) and to lend
directly only in cases, such as the two projects above, where the projects
proposed were beyond CDB's financial or technical capabilities. The Bank
has provided to CDB under this approach two IDA credits totallUng US$14
million and a US$3 million Third Window operation. The IDA credits
contained three sub-credits to Dominica for a total of US$5.3 million. The
sub-credits were for restoration of port facilities damaged by hurricanes -
US$2.0 million; DFC equity capital contribution - US$0.3 million; and
feeder roads - U8$3.0 million. Dominica would also benefit from the Fourth
CDB, Regional Vocational and Technical Education project, approved by the
Board in April, 1987.
62.      The proposed lending strategy for the OECS, including Dominica, Is
guided by the broad principles spelLed out in the Board document entitled
'Terms of Lending to Small Island Economies Graduating from IDA," dated
November 18, 1985. Though per capita income is above the rDA cutoff point,
the country is not fully creditworthy for Bank lending. The Bank will
facilitate the transition from XDA to full Bank eligibility by providing
limited access to IDA over the mediu% term for operations that would
address cirtical economic policy issues and thus aim at strengthening
creditworthiness by the end of the decade.  The proposed Structural
Adjustment Credit is the first such operation for the ORCS. It is part of
a coordinated financing plan that includes an IN? SAF, approved November
1986, and parallel program financeing from the CDB. It Is expected that the
USAID will also contribute program financing.
63.      Since the creation of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development, the Bank has carried out substantial amounts of
economic work in Dominica, and in the other QECS countries. ror several
years, Bank economic memoranda were prepared annually (now every 18
montha), in the process of which the Bank has developed a dialogue with the
Government on its development priorities and policits. The Bank hs helped
the Government in the formulation of realistic investtent programs and
financing plan. and, as Chairman of the Caribbean Group, has played a lead
role In obtaining and coordinating external assistance for Dominica, most
notably for the Government's major roads program to which IDA contributed.



- 22 -
64.      IFC's role in the OECS countries has been limited to the
assistance provided through the Caribbean Project Development Facility
(CPDF), which was established under the aegis of the Caribbean Group. CPDF
assists small private sector enterprises in putting together financing
packages. CPDF is currently involved in two operations in Dominica, one a
poultry processing operation, and the other a furniture-making enterprise
that will export. Both operations are scheduled to be completed in the
next two months.
VII  THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT AND THE IMF SAF
65.      The SAC program was designed and processed In close collaboration
with the IMF which last November provided SDR 1.9 million to Dominica under
a SAF arrangement. The new procedures requiring joint preparation of a
Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for the SAF have assured a high degree of
complAmentarity of the SAC and S9F programs. This collaboration was
reinforced by the presence in the field simltaneously of both Bank and
Fund preparation missions. The whole range of policy issues, macro and
sectoral, were discussed with the authorities in joint sessions.   Thus the
tWo programs are fully consistent and complementary.
66.      The essential components of the IMF's SAF are:
(a) Limits on the Government's use of nonconcessionary financing;
(b)  Restriction on government and government-guaranteed foreign
borrowing on commercial terms; and
(c) Prohibition on the accumulation of domestic or external payments
arrears.
These features will complement the SAC program by assuring the financial
soundness of the Government as it endeavors to reform its policies and
programs to promote growth.
67.      Other benchmarks by which the Fund intends to monitor Dominica's
progress with structural adjustment in the first year are:
(a)  Introduction of new wage legislation by the end of FY86187 so that
a new wage policy could be formulated for the entire public
sector;
(b) Completion of the organization and management study of the civil
service by early 1987 and action in this area by mid-1987;
(c) Completion of the reorganization of the Central Water Authority in
FY86/87 so as to reduce costs;
(d) Offering for sale of 60Z of the equity in Dominica Electricity
Services, Ltd., in FY86187;



- 23 -
(e) Reorganization and integration of the Industrial Development
Corporation and the Tourist Board by the end of 1986;
(f) Reorganization of the Co-operative Citrus Growers Association by
September 1986; and
(g) Adoption by mid-1987 of a budget FY87/88 conducive to attainment
of the program's objectives.
Some of these elements of the Government's medium-term policy program are
linked to action programs under the proposed SAC--(a), (b), (c), (e). The
Government's timetable for these items has slipped to the second half of
1987, the dates used elsewhere of this text. As regards item (d), IDA's
work on the Dominica hydropower project casts doubts on the feasibility of
this timetable. -his will be taken into account during the IMF's first
annual review of its SAF program in May 1987.
68.      To the extent that government savings and balance of payments
targets have been established (tentatively, because they are subject to
annual review and adjustment) by the IMF for the medium term, the SAC
programs for a tax reform, containment of the growth of government
employment, and policies and programs for investment attraction, and for
agriculture and tourism growth support their attainment.
VIII. RECOMMENDATION
69.      I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attacbments
May 13, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
DOiINiCA                                   Page I
KEY ECONONIC INDICATORS
ACTUAL                       PROJECTE
1983   1984    195    196    1997    1918   1989    1990
GOP Growth Rate                  2.1    6.1    1.2    4.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    4.0
BOY Browth Rate                  7.1    2.1    3.7    4.0    3.5    3.5    3.5    4.0
6OY/capita Growth Rate           4.5    0.8    1.3    2.5    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.5
Cfmsution/capita Grwth Rate  -3.4    1.9    7.6   -2.0          27    0.0    0.5    0.8
Debt Service (in UStal           2.8    4.4    4.3    4.,    5.4    6.6    6.4    5.9
Det Service/ISS                  7.8   11.9   11.5   10.4   10.8   12.0   10.5    8.7
Debt Service/GDP                 3.5    5.0    4.5    4.6    5.0    5.7    5.2    4.5
Gross Investent/GOP             28.2   33.9   20.5   29.4   27.7   28.4   28.0   28.0
Doustic SavingslDP              10.0    8.9    3.4    6.9    6.2    8.0    9.4    11.0
National Savings/GOP            14.4  1I.0    7.1   10.6    9.9   11.5   12.7   13.9
Nargina' National Savings Rate    1.2   *-       . .    1.1     *.      0.6    0.5    0.5
Pblic InvestemntloDP            17.5   22.3   19.6   20.7   18.4   18.1   18.0   18.0
Public SavingsisoP               0.0    1.9    3.3    4.7    5.3    5.6    6.0    6.3
Private Invstatntl/DP           10.1   11.4    8.9    8.7    9.3   10.3   10.0   10.0
Private Savins/P                14.4   11.1    3.8    5.9    4.6    5.9    6.7    7.6
Ratio of Public/Private Invest   1.7    1.9    2.2    2.4    2.0    1.8    1.8    1.8
Govrnment Revenuesl/W           29.8   30.3   31.0   31.8   31.7   31.4   31.2   31.0
Gso nmt Expenditures/S6P        46.2   481L    4.0   0.6   42.7   43.0   43.0   43.0
Deficit (-) or Surplus (4)/SDP   -1.1    0.0    0.6    1.4      1.9    2.2    2.8    2.9
Export Growth Rate               3.8   10.6   -3.7   13.9    7.1    7.0    7.3    7.3
Exports/$DP                     45.1   41.q   39.4   44.5   46.0   47.6   49.4   51.0
Iaport Growth Rate               0.4   14.2    2.7    4.8    4.2    4.2    3.5    4.0
Iports/oDP                      63.3   66.9   64.5   67.0   67.5   68.0   68.0   68.0
Curnt Arognt (in U8.           -10.9  -18.4  -20.4  -19.2  -19.4  -19.6  -18.9  -18.7
Current Account/SOP            -13.8  -20.9  -21.4  -18.8  -17.8  -16.9  -15.3  -14.1



- 25 -
Page 2
OUIUJCA - BLANCE OF PAYETS
(US$ millions at Curent Prices)
Actual                      Prol.                Prohection
19810   1S81    1982    1983    1904    1915   8196    1907    1998    1989    1"o    I"S
A.  Exports of loads I NFS       15.7   23.3    31.7   35.7    36.9    37.5    45.4   50.1   55.2    61.1   67.5   100.4
i. Nerchandise                  9.t    19.1   24.5   27.5    25.6    28.4   35.4   39.2   43.3   40.1   53.3   78.8
2. Mon-factor services           6.0     4.2     7.2     8.2    11.3    9.1   10.0   10.9   11.9    13.0   14.2   21.8
D.  Impoits of Gos & FS          54.5   52.0    50.1   S0.1   58.9    61.4    68.4   73.4   78.8   84.0   90.0  123.7
1. Nerchandise                  53.2   49.7   47.5   4?.1   55.8    57.2   63.2   67.4   71.9   76.7   82.2   113.0
2. Voo-factor services           1.3    2.3      2.6    3.0      3.1     4.2     5.2     6.0     6.9    7.4      7.9    10.7
C. Resource Oalance             -38.0  -28.7  -18.4  -14.4  -22.0  -23.9  -23.0  -23.3  -23.6  -23.0  -22.5  -23.1
0. Nt Factor Incae               -0.5   -0.4   -0.8   -1.5   -2.7   -3.0   -3.0   -3.0   -3.0   -3.1   -3.3   -4.5
(Interest paymnts)          -0.3   -0.4    -0.8   -1.7   -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -2.2   -2.3   -2.3   -2.3   -4.0
E. Net Curret Transfu's           6.3    5.8      4.6     5.0    6.3      6.5    6.8      6.9    7.0      7.1    7.2      8.5
F. Current Account Balagce    -33.0  -23.3  -14.6  -10.9  -18.4  -20.4  -19.2  -19.4  -19.6  -18.9  -18.7  -19.1
8. ULng-term Capital Inflow      21.6   13.0    12.6      7.5   24.6   20.0   20.5   22.2   22.9   22.5   21.1   19.1
1. Drect Investment              0.0     0.0     0.2     0.2     2.3     1.7     2.0    2.3      2.5     2.5     3.0    4.0
2. Official Capital Grants a/   18.1    9.6      5.8     4.4   14.6   14.6   14.5    10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    8.0
3. Net LT Loans hi               1.5    2.7      8.2    5.3      4.7     4.5     3.6     4.4    2.8      2.5     2.4   -2.0
a. Disbureents                1.8    3.4    0.9       5.7     5.3     5.3    4.7      5.8     4.3     4.0     4.0     0.0
b. Repaymonts                 0.3    0.7      0.7    0.4      0.6     0.8     1.1    t.4      1.5    1.5      1.6    2.0
4. Other Lt Inflows              2.0    0.7   -1.6   -2.4        3.0   -0.8      0.4     5.5     7.6    7.5      5.7     9.1
H. Total Otber Item  (net)        7.7     2.1     0.5   -1.0   -0.5       0.4    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
1. Capital Floss n.e.i. and      7.7    2.1      0.5   -1.0   -0.5       0.4     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0
Errors and boissios
1. Chane in Met  srves            3.7    8.2      1.5    4.4   -5.7       0.0   -1.3   -2.8   -3.3   -3.6   -2.4          0.0
1. uet Credit fran 1fF           0.0     5.8    3.1      1.8   -0.3   -1.5   -0.6   -1.2   -1.9   -2.1   -1.1            0.0
2. Other Reserve Changes         3.7    2.4   -1.6       2.6   -5.4      1.5   -0.7   -1.6   -1.4   -1.5   -1.3          0.0
(- indicates increase)
Shares of 6OP (current U&ll
1. Resource Balance             -65.8  -43.4  -25.5  -18.2  -25.0  -25.1  -22.5  -21.4  -20.3  -18.6  -17.0  -12.4
2. Total Interest Paymnts        -0.5    -0.6   -1. 1    -2.1   -2.3   -2.1   -2.0   -2.0   -2.0   -1.9   -1.7   -2.1
3. Current Accunt Balance      -56.0  -35.2  -20.2  -13.8  -20.9  -21.4  -18.8  -17.8  -16.9  -15.3  -14.1  -10.2
4. LT Capital Inflow (line 6)   36.7   19.7   17.5    9.5   27.9   21.0   20.1   20.4   19.1   18.2   15.9   10.2
5. lWt Credit from the SINF       0.0     LO      4.3     2.3   -0.3   -1.6   -0.6   -1.1   -1.6   -1.7   -0.8    0.0
Memarndum Item:
SOP tdillions of current US$)    50.9   66.1   72.1    79.1   88.0   95.3  102.0  108.8  115.9  123.6  132.5  187.0
Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. lnt'I Reserws                 5.1     3.1     4.3    1.5    5.3       3.3      na
2. Sold (end yr. London price)    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0
3. Gross Reerves incl. old        5.1     3.1     4.3     1.5    5.3    3.3       n
4. Br. Res. in Nonths Imports     1.1    0.7      1.0    0.4    1.1      0.6      na
Exchange Rates (EC$iUS)
1. Nou. Off. I-rate              2.7     2.7    2.7      2.7    2.7      2.7     2.7
2. Real Eff. X-rate bse 1M    100.0  108.2  111.9  118.7  128.5  130.0  120.9
3. I-rate for SUP conversion     2.7     2.7    2.7      2.7    2.7    2.7       2.7
a/ include  burricane relief grants in 1980 and 1901
bl from 1986 onwards basd on comitments as of 1905



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------__----
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
A. Gross Disbursements
1. Public & Public Guaranteed       19.9   12.9   14.6   10.0   19.9   19.8
Official Grants              18.1    9.6    5.8    4.4   14.6   14.6
Concessional Loans            1.8    3.3    8.8    5.6    5.3    5.2
Multilateral               0.6    2.7    8.3    5.0    4.6    3.9
of which IDA             -       -      -       1.2    2.1    1.0
Bilateral                  1.2    0.6    0.5    0.6    0.7    1.3
2.  IMF Purchases                   -       5.8    3.1    2.5    1.5    -
B. External Debt (DOD)
1.  Public & Publicly Guaranteed    15.6   16.9   24.1   28.9   32.7   38.4
Multilateral                 12.2   13.3   20.4   24.7   28.1   32.3
of which IDA                -      -       -       1.2    3.3    4.3
Bilateral                     3.4    3.6    3.7    4.2    4.6    6.1
2.  IMF Credit                      2.1    7.5   10.3   11.5   10.5   10.1
C. Debt Service a
Total Service Payments        0.6    1.1    1.4    2.8    4.4    4.3
Debt Service Ratio bt         4.1    4.8    4.5    7.8   11.9   11.5
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----
a/ includes service on IMF debt.
as a proportion of exports of goods and nonfactor services.



- 27 
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN DOMINICA
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1987
-US$ million-----
Amount
Credit      Fiscal                                         (Less cancellation)
No.         Year      Borrower      Purpose              IDA        Undisbursed
1221        1982      Dominica     Road Maintenance      5.0            0.2
1771        1987      Dominica     Power                 3.0             3.0
Total (Net of cancellations)    8.0
of which has been repaid         -
Total Now Outstanding           8.0
Total Undisbursed                               3.2
B. Statement of IFC Investments as of March 31, 1987
None.



- 28 -
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTAMY PROJECT DATA SU EET
DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Section I - Timetable of REn Events
(a)  Initiation .f structural adjustment operations  during the seventh
meeting of the Caribbean Group, major donors indicated their interest
in supporting appropriate policy adjustments in the OECS member
countries. Domnica requested such assistance at the Dominica subgroup
meeting In March 1986.
(b)  Preappralsal missions                      May 1986
(c)  Appraisal missiont                          January 1987
(d) Completion of negotiations:                 April 1987
(e)  Plansed date of effectiveness:             July 1987
Section MI - Special MDA Imlementation Actions
None.
Section III - Specisl Conditions
The borrower's performance under the structural adjustment credit
will be monitored through two IDA reviews, one each prior to the
disbursement of the second and third trenches respectively.
Disbursement would be contingent on the Government making significant
and satisfactory progress in implementing the structural adjustment
program, notably in completing the following specific actions in a
manner satisfactory to IDA:
Condition of Logn Effectlveness
(a) The Government will reach agreement with IDA on the broad
principles of its proposed tax refonm (pars. 30).
Conditions of Release of Second Trnche
(a) Preparation of a macroeconomic development strategy and
implementation plan, including inter alia, macroeconomic analyais,
sectoral analysis, and a review of the competitiveness of the
economy (pars. 25).
(b) Review of the negative list of imports and agreement with IDA on a
plan of action for reducing the list (para. 28).
(c) Agreement with IDA on the Government's tax reform proposals,
including Implementation schedule, prior to enactment (pars. 30).



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) Preparation of an action plan for upgra?ing the extension service
(para. 35).
(e)  Agreement with IDA on a core PSIP for 1988189 (para. 37).
(f)  Completion of the merger of the IDC and the Tourist Board,
September 1987 (para. 32).
(g)  Agreement with IDA on an expenditure program for the merged IDC
for 1988/89 (para. 37).
(h) Satisfactory implementation of phased program for formulation and
monitoring of PSIP (para. 37).
(i)  Completion of Phase III of O&M survey (para. 40).
(j)  Compliance with the freeze on minimum wages and with the policy
that the share of the civil service salaries in relation to total
recurrent revenues before the proposed tax reform will decline
from about 53Z In 1985186 to no more than 50X in 1988/89, and in
relation to total recurrent expenditures will remain constant over
the program period at about 562 (para. 40).
(k) Introduction of legislation to promote more orderly wage
negotiation throughout the public sector, July 1987 (para. 40).
Conditions of Release of Third Tranche
(a) Satisfactory progress in carrying out the implementation plan
prepared in relation to the macroeccAomic development strategy
(para. 25).
(b)  Satisfactory progress In carrying out the agreed action plan for
reducing the negative list of imports (pars. 28).
(c)  Satisfactory progress in implementing the agreed tax reform
program (para. 30).
(d) Satisfactory Implementation of the plan for upgrading the
agricultural extension service (para. 35).
(e) Satisfactory progress in implementating the phased program for
formulation and monitoring of the PSIP (para. 37).
(f) Compliance with the 32 limit on annual increases in the
Government's wage bill under the next Civil Service wage contract;
with the freeze on minimum wages; and with the policy that the
share of the civil service salaries in reiation to total recurrent
revenues before the proposed tax reform will decline from about
53S in 1985/86 to no more than 50S in 1988189, and in relation to
total recurrent expenditures will remain constant over the program
period at about 562 (para. 40).



-30 -                  ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 11
1.f. No.                              MINISTRY OF FINANCE.
GOVERNMENT HEADQUARTERS.
KENNEDY AVENUE.
ROSEAU.
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA.
WEST INDIES.
April 20, 1987
Mr Barber B Conable
President
International Development Association
1818 H Street N.W
Washington D C 20433
United States of America
Dear Mr Conable
The Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica requests
the International Development Association to provide
a credit in an amount of US$3 million equivalent in
support of critical elements of the Government's structural
adjustment program, 1986/87 to 1988/89.
I enclose herewith a statement which sets out our
development policies and strategies over the three years
of the program.
I trust that you will find this acceptable as the basis
on which the International Development Agency will extend
the requested credit to the Government of the Commonwealth
of Dominica.
Sincerely yours
MkEUGENIA CHARLES
PRIME MINISTER AND
MINISTER FOR FINANCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AND EXTERNAL AFFAIRS



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 11
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICA
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
Background
1.       Efforts at structurally adjusting the economy of Dominica began
since the present Government took over the management of the economy in
1980. The economy then was devastated by natural disasters, civil
disaffection and years of neglect. With the support of two DMF programs,
an Extended Fund Facility arrangement and a Stand-by arrangement, the
Government undertook a stringent demand management program that brought
considerable Improvement to the public finances. Since 1980, other donor
agencies including IDA also provided project, program and technical
assistance that enabled Government to rehabilitate much of the
infrastructure and strengthen the development institutions so as to Improve
the productive capacity of the economy.
2.       The statistics on recent economic performance give an indication
of what has been achieved with multilateral and bilateral cooperation. The
Central Government budget balance which registered a deficit of 101 of GDP
in 1980181, was in virtual balance by 1984185 and showed a surplus of 0.91
of GDP in 1985186. The current account of the consolidated public
enterprises moved from a deficit of 7.71 of GDP in 1980181 to a balanced
position in 1984185. Total public sector savings (including the balances
of the 3ocial Security Scheme) increased from a deficit of 71 of GDP in
1980/81 to a surplus of 2.61 of GDP in 1984/85. Export perfornmance,
heavily dependent on bananas, strengthened throughout the period as a
result of organizational Improvements. It was helped further by the recent
strengthening of the pound sterling, in which banana export prices are
denominated, and registered its strongest showing in 1986, when banana
export volume increased 471.
3.       The principal policy measures that contributed to these results
are as follow:
(a) Government raised taxes, broadened the revenue base and
strengthened the revenue collection mechanism; as a result, tax
revenues Increased from 26.21 of GDP in 1981/82 to 28.7% of GDP in
1985/86g
(b) Government eliminated transfers to the public enterprises, by
promoting better managemert, and by regularly reviewing the
pricing of public services;
(c) Government dissolved inefficient statutory entities Including the
Land Management Authority, the Housing Development Corporation,
the Lotteries Commission and the Agricultural Marketing Board;
(d) Government restructured the Banana Marketing Corporation,
privatizing its packing operations and strengthening the
managerial and accounting functions; consequently a larger share
of the f.o.b. price has been distributed to the growers.



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 11
4.       The adjustments attempted in the past, however, were carried out
in a piecemeal fashion. Goverrment believes that a more coordinated
approach that assesses all the major policy Issues within an overall
macroeconomic framework vould be more effective for reaching its growth,
balance of payments and fiscal objectives. Government has, therefore,
formulated a three-year structural adjustment program for 1986187 through
1988189, the broad dimensions of which are articulated in the Policy
Framework Paper considered by the Executive Directors on November 18, 1986.
The Structural Adjustment Protram (SAP)
5.       Government recognizes that, despite the recent progress, severe
fiscal and external imbalances persist. Government believes, however, that
the economy has the capacity to improve, and is determined to address
directly the policy Issues that will increase output and productivity and
promote growth in exports and investment. The Government also continues to
look for additional measures that can be taken effectively to Improve
public sector management and increase domestic savings.
6.       The SAP has the overall objective of raising the annual growth
rate of GDP to 3.5-4.02 on a sustained basis. The program makes provision
for Central Government savings to rise from the present 0.9% of GDP to 21-
32 of GDP by 1988189. This fimprovement is expected to result chiefly from
expenditure restraint, as recurrent revenues are already 312 of GDP. Under
the program, the balance of payments current deficit is projected to
Improve by about 4 percentage points.
7.       The SAP is supported by a three-year Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) arrangement with the Fund, which was approved in November
1986. Under the first annual program of the SAF, Government has adopted
measures designed to raise government savings and contain the growth of
external debt. The principal demand management elements of the first
annual SAF program for the year 1986187 area
(a)  an increase in the Central Government current account surplus to
EC$4.5 million (1.6Z of GDP), and a limit on the overall deficit
of EC$10.9 million or 3.81 of GDP;
(b) a limit of EC$3.2 million on nonconcessionary financing;
(c)  further improvement in the operations of the public enterprises
through reorganizations, management strengthening, and price
adjustments; and
(d) prudent debt management operations including no external borrowing
on noncessionary terms except as might be required for viable
projects approved by the Bank and the Fund (as provided in
paragraph 29 of the Policy Framework Paper).
8.       The fiscal program for the year involves a revenue package that Is
expected to yield net additional revenue of EC$1.4 million, or 0.51 of GDP



- 33 -
AMNEX n
Page 4 of 11
chiefly from Increases In taxes on high powered motor vehicles and on
petroleum products, and from lmproved tax administration and collection.
The package also includes the reduction or elimination of some taxes with
disincentive effects including taxes on exports, on comercial bank
deposits and on the sales of foreign exchange. Current expenditures for
the year are expec-ted to be affected chiefly by the 52 wage increase agreed
under the current three-year wage contract with the Civil Service
Association.
9.       For the medium term, Government's aim is to strengthen fiscal
performance further. The focus would have to be on recurrent expenditures
given the already high tax burden. Measures have, nevertheless, been taken
to strengthen the capability of the Inland Revenue Department and to
upgrade collection procedures. While recurrent expenditures have been
tightly controlled over the last few years, there is scope for limiting the
growth of the wage bill, now 58Z of expenditures, and Government intends to
adopt measures to curb increases in both the wage rate and the level of
government employment.
Maae and Employment Policy
10.      Government believes that its wage and employment policy is of
critical importance in the economy on two counts: the wage bill is a
significant portion of recurrent expenditure, and its movement therefore
affects Government's savings ability; Government is by far the largest
single employer and its wage policy has some effect on the total wage
index. The last civil service contract awarded annual increases of 8-1/2S,
52 and 72, with implied real increases that could impede Dominica's export
competitiveness. The negotiating strategy of the public enterprises also
needs to be improved. An appropriate wages policy is therefore important
for Improving Dominica's competitiveness as well as for strengthening the
public finances.
11.     Government has already discontinued the automatic annual
increments to civil servants as of July, 1986. In addition, under the next
three-year wage contract, 1988/89-1990/91, Government is prepared to lit
the increases in the wage bill to no more than 32 per annum; and the share
of the civil service salaries in relation to total recurrent revenues
before the proposed tar reform will be targeted to decline from about 532
in 1985186 to about 50% in 1988189, and in relation to total recurrent
expenditures will be targeted to remain constant over the program period at
about 562. It is also the intention not to increase the minimum wage
during the period of the program. Finally, Government will develop
procedures for wage negotiations that will apply to both tho Central
Government and the public enterprises.
12.      The elimination of automatic annual Increments has made possible a
saving of EC$1.5 million on the government wage bill. A new job appraisal
system will be introduced together with a system of merit awards for
excellent performance. This system will be adopted as of July 1, 1987.
Holding the nominal increase in the wage bill to 32 annually will imply a



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 11
zero or negative annual real increase in government wages over the next
contract period, beginning July 1988. To extend these guidelines to the
rest of the public sector, legislation is being drafted to establish
procedures for wage negotiations in the whole of the public sector 80 that
bargaining can be conducted within the framawork of an overall public
sector incomes policy. The legislation will establish a single negotiating
committee for the whole of the public sector and will set out clear
guidelines for arbitration. Legislation should be in place by July 1987.
Government intends to maintain its current policy that the public
enterprises must be independent of the Government's budget.
13.      With regard to public sector employment, Government has a
consistent policy of controlling the size of its workforce. As an ongoing
process, Government continues to keep vacant any postS which appear to be
redundant or wasteful and abolish them where possible. Of the 2,456 posts
in the establishment list, only 2,332 persons are In active employment. In
July 1986, Government dissolved the Central Water Authority with a view to
reconstituting it into a smaller agency, cutting its workforce by 30S.
14.      In furtherance of this policy Government has embarked on an
administrative reform exercise. An Organization and Methods (O&M) Survey
for increasing efficiency and rationalizing the use of manpower resources
in the civil service has been launched. The exercise involves job analysis
and evaluation, and the introduction of an effective system for performance
appraisal. The first two phases of the exercise are complete with the
exception of about 10% of the job analyses. Commencement of the final
phase has been affected by funding delays, but is expected by July, 1987.
While the first objective is to improve efficiency and increase
productivity, the opportunity will be taken to determine the manpower
requirements of the civil service with a view to effecting economies
wherever possible.
Public Sector Investment Programming
15.      Complementary to the ongoing O&M exercise for improving the
efficiency of the civil service, is the Government's program to strengthen
the capability for formulation and implementation of the public sector
investment program. To effect this, the Economic Development Unit (EDU)
has been brought into the Ministry of Finance and essential project staff
have been placed in it. Government has obtained technical assistance for
macroplanning and project coordination, and is expecting to obtain
technical assistance by June 1987 in the critical area of sector
programming which is expected to set the framework for project
identification. Government has also requested assistance to strengthen the
project  implemtntation expertise in key ministries as well as the EDU and
to provide practical training for all staff working in project
implementation and evaluation. The objective is to put in place effective
systems and procedures for formulating and carrying out the public sector
investment program within the framework of the Government's development
strategy through all stages from project identification to monitoring and
evaluation.



'3$ -
ANNEX IY
Page 6 of 11
16.      Government has adopted a capital program for the next year,
1987/88 which it has agreed with IDA. It is based on a three-year public
sector investment program which Government intends to update annually.
Government has prepared an implementation plan and timetable for
strengthening the PSIP formulation ond monitoring process and for
integrating it with the capital budgeting process.
Private Investment and Private Sector D1velopment
17.      It is Government's objective to stimulate the economy by improving
the conditions for growth in private investment and exports. Government
understands fully the importance of maintaining Dominica's external
competitiveness and, together with the ECCB, is keeping the effective
exchange rate under constant revisw. However, an adjustment of the nominal
exchange rate is not a realistic policy option because of the varying
economic structures of the seven ECCB members, and the recent US dollar
depreciation has reduced the urgency for action on this front.
Nevertheless, Government will include a review of the competitiveness of
the economy as part of its preparation of a macro-economic development
strategy and implementation plan. In the meantime, Government's policy of
wage restraint described above will provide a substitute instrument to
Improve competitiveness by controlling labor costs. Several public sector
investment projects also embody policies and programs for improving the
operating efficiency of productive activities thus enhancing their
profitability. The best example is the stimulus to the banana industry
following the restructuring project for the Banana Marketing Corporation.
18.      Government is looking at other aspects of the policy environment
as well. It has become clear that the present tax system is burdensome and
inequitable and as such is an impediment to the Government's growth
objectives. Dominica's tax effort in relation to tax capacity is among the
highest in the Caribbean, which is itself generally high, for developing
countties.  Government has therefore reviewed, with technical assistance,
all features of the tax system with the objective of reducing disincentives
to investment and production. The tax base is also to be broadened. The
main thrust of the proposed reform is to reduce the steep progressivity of
the Income tax and lower the top rates which go up to 55Z; simplify the
indirect tax structure by combining a number of taxes and Increasing the
uniformity of the consumption tax, which currently discriminates between
imports and domestic production; extend the income tax to agricultural
income or wealth, which is now exempt altogether; and initiate a national
property tax. Government'o fiscal constraints dictate that the tax reform
introduced should at least be revenue neutral, unless the government is
able to obtain grant financing for any Interim net revenue loss. Any
proposed substantive adjustments to the tax code will be made only as part
of a total package agreed with IDA. Government expects that Implementation
would begin In fiscal year 1987/88.



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 11
19.      Government recognizes that the manufacturing and tourism sectors
offer immediate possibilities for increased employment and foreign exchange
earnings, and has attempted to augment the existing fiscal Incentive scheme
by reducing the company tax on manufacturing from 40S to 301; reducing the
foreign exchange levy to encourage foreign private investment; and removing
all taxes on local commercial bank deposits to encourage savings and
investment. In addition to these measures, Government has more recently
taken steps to Improve the Institutional arrangements for processing
investment proposals through the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC).
The nrocessing procedures have been simplified by reducing the stages for
final approval, centralising appraisals within the IDC. This system is
fully operational as of April 1, 1987.
20.      Government is now developing a strategy for intensifying its
investment promotion with emphasis on overseas promotion. Government is
also seeking to ensure the appropriate exploitation of Dominica's unique
tourism potential and to promote the island as a special tourist
destination. To maximize the use of available resources, Goverrment has
decided to merge the Industrial Development Corporation and the Tourist
Board under one administration. The merger is expected to be complete by
September, 1987.
21.      The trade regime is an important part of the overall incentive
structure and Governuent will take measures to ensure that it does not
become an impediment to investment and growth or to allocative efficiency.
While independent action by Dominica is constrained to some extent by its
membership in the Caribbean Community and Common Market (CARICOM), there
are some measures that Government can take to improve the regime in
conformity with CARICOM rules. Government has already eliminated export
taxes and stamp duties on exports as of July 1986. Government has also
lifted price controls on a number of imported Items in two phases, the
first in February 1986 when 10 items out of a list of 24 were decontrolled;
and the second as of May 1, 1987, when all meat products, except cheaper
cuts of poultry representing 35X of the remaining list, were decontrolled.
Government has more recently examined the Import licensing scheme and
quantitative restrictions on imports, and removed 71 items from the
'negative list' as of May 1, 1987. This reduces the number of imported
items subject to restrictive licensing by 351. Further reductions will be
made in accordance with an action plan to reduce quantitative restrictions
substantially during the program period, that is, by December 1988. The
action plan will be prepared prior to the release of the second tranche.
Equivalent tariffs will be applied instead of quotas and prohibitions.
22.      Dominica's tariff structure is influenced also by the structure of
the consumption tax which, as presently applied, increases the protective
structure designed by the CARICOM common external tariff. Proposals are
included in the overall tax reform program for increasing the uniformity of
the consumption tax, as mentioned above in pera. 18. The three basic bands
are to be collapsed into a flat rate at about 20S, leaving the higher rates
on luxury goods8 motor vehicles and petroleum products, and the rates will



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 8 of 11
apply equally to domestic production and imported items. Government has
also obtained technical assistance for the further strengthening of customs
administration to ensure the proper application of import duty exemptions.
The improved guidelines on assessment and the training in auditing
procedures will both strengthen the revenue collection process as well as
enhance the effectiveness of the incentive schemes.
23.      Agriculture, which is the largest productive sector by far, has
benefitted from the considerable Improvements in policies and programs
initiated by the Government in recent years. Investments in feeder roads
and major roads, organizational restructuring, including modernizing the
harvesting arrangements, and management strengthening, have brought
operational improvements to the banana industry which resulted in better
producer prices and higher production and exports. Some progress has also
been made in improving the marketing efficiency of the Cooperative Citrus
Growers' Association, and the newly established agro-processing plant
provides an outlet for surplus fresh grapefruit which can now be processed
for export in the form of segments and juice concentrate. Because of these
marketing improvements for both fresh grapefruit and processed grapefruit,
citrus farmers are enjoying improved prices.
24.      The Government's agricultural program now places considerable
emphasis on crop diversification to ensure against the dangers of
dependence on one or two traditional crops. The planting phase of a tree
crop diversification program has been completed, and market surveys and
market trials are in progress. The diversification program includes
specialized and high-value crops such as mountain coffee, for which
Dominica's conditions are well suited, and exotic fruits including avocados
and mangoes. To provide an adequate level of extension services to farmers
participating In the diversification program, Government intends to
strengthen the extension service by ensuring adequate training and improved
working conditions for the agricultural extension service.



- 38 -
ANNEX IV
Page 9 of 11
GOVERNMENT OF DOMINICA
Structural Adjustment Credit Proaram
Actions Already Taken
Trade, Tax and Investment Policies
- Export taxes and stamp duty on export sales were removed July 1,
1986.
- The foreign exchange levy was reduced from 2.5% to 1.5%, July 1,
1986. The tax on bank deposits was removed July 1, 1986; and direct
and indirect taxes were reduced for manufacturing enterprises in
September 1985 and July 1986.
- Price controls were removed from 40% of controlled items, 1986.
- Quantitative restrictions were removed from 71 imported items
representing 35% of all items subject to restrictive import
licensing, as of May 1, 1987.
- Customs administration has been reformed to strengthen the control
of duty-free imports and improve the application of the consumption
tax to domestic manufacturers; completed April 1, 1987.
- A simplified system for review of investment applications was
adopted and fully implemented as of April 1, 1987.
- The tax reform study was completed in March 1987. Findings of the
study were reviewed by IDA, April 1987.
Agriculture
- The Banana Marketing Corporation was restructured to enhance
operating efficiency, 1985-86.
- The Cooperative Citrus Growers' Association was strengthened with
new management in October 1986.
- Banana packing and transportation were privatized, 1985-86.
- New export market was procured for processed citrus, 1985.
- New marketing agency, DEXIA, was formed for export promotion and
market development for nontraditional agricultural products, 1986.
- Price controls on livestock and poultry products were removed as of
May 1, 1987, excepting cheaper cuts of poultry.



- 39 -
ANNEX IV
Page 10 of 11
Public Sector Investment Program
- A project monitoring system was introduced in Ministry of
Agriculture.
- The Economic Development Unit was brought into Ministry of Finance,
and strengthened with staff provided under technical assistance
- The PSIP and financing plan for 1987188 was agreed with IDA and
adopted May X, 1987.
- Government designed and adopted a time-phased program for increasing
Government's capacity to formulate, analyze and monitor a three-year
rolling PSIP, and to integrate the PSIP formLulation process with the
capital budgeting process, May 1, 1987.
- A 1987/88 budget and financing plan for IDC and Tourist Board
including promotion strategy, with increased emphasis by IDC on
overseas promotion was adopted May 1, 1987.
Public Sector Wazes and Employment
- Automatic annual increments on civil service salaries were
discontinued as of July 1, 1986.
- Goverrment has adopted the policy that under the next civil service
wage contract, the increases in the wage bill will be limited to 3X
per year, starting 1988/89; and that there will be no increases in
the minimum wage during the program period. In addition, the share
of the civil service salaries in relation to total recurrent
revenues before the proposed tax reform will be targeted to decline
from about 53% in 1985/86 to no more than 50% in 1988189, and in
relation to total recurrent expenditures will be targeted to remain
constant over the program period at about 56%.
Action Prior to Effectiveness of the IDA Credit
- The Government will reach agreement with IDA on the broad principles
of its proposed tax reform.
Actions Prior to Release of Second Tranche (April 1988)
- Government will prepare a macroeconomic development strategy and
implementation plan including, inter alia, macroeconomic analysis,
sectoral analysis, and a review of the competitiveness of the
economy.
- Government will review the negative list of imports and reach
agreement with IDA on a plan of action for reducing the list.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 11 of 11
- Government will reach agreement with IDA on its tax proposals,
including Implementation schedule, prior to enactment.
- Governme-r. will prepare an action plan for implementing its training
program .or extension staff.
- Government will reach agreement with IDA on a core PSIP for 1988/89.
- Government will complete the merger of the IDC and the Tourist
Board, September 1987.
- Government will reach agreement with IDA on an expenditure program
for the merged IDC for 1988/89.
- Government will continue implementation of phased program for
formulation and monitoring of PSIP.
-  Government will complete Phase III of O&M survey.
- Government will maintain a freeze on the minimum wage, and ensure
that the targeted relationships between the civil service salaries
and recurrent revenucs and expenditures are achieved.
- Government will pass legislation to promote more orderly wage
negotiation throughout the public sector (July 1987).
Actions prior to Release of Third Tranche (December 1988)
- Government will implement the plan prepared in relation to the
macroeconomic development strategy.
- Government will implement the action plan for reducing the negative
list of imports.
- Government will continue implementation of agreed tax reform
program.
- Government will implement the action plan for training the extension
staff.
- Government will continue implementation of phased program for
formulation and monitoring of PSIP.
- Government will ensure that the new wage contract starting 1988189
conforms to its policy of limiting the wage bill increase to 3X
annually, and that the targeted relationships between the civil
service salaries and recurrent revenues and expenditures are
achieved.
- Government will maintain a freeze on the minimum wage.



- 41 -
DOMINICA - Structural Adiustme
Policy Area
Objectiv esIssues               Measures Taken prior to the SAC
Trade. Tax £ Investment Policies
ObjectiY- - To reduce disincentives    Reduction of levy on foreign           1. Review of th
to Investment and export.              exchange sales from 2.6% to 1.6X,          of the eeono
FY8/8T.                                   preparation
Exchange rate has boen fixed since                                                macroeconomi
1976; fundamental external            Removal of tax on bank deposits in          strategy and
imbalance, and slow export growth.    two phases: July 1986 and July              plan.
los.
Tax burden Is relatively high, and
tax structure complex; Investment      Reduction of customs service charge
application review process Is          for manufacturers, FYSS/86.
cumbersome  customs administration
creates *r6itrariness in               Removal of price controls from 40%
enforcement of tax code.               of controlled ites.
Reduction of company profits tax
from 4SX to 30X for manufacturers,
FY8U/87.
2. Removal of
3. Phased implc
agreed progr
QRs, and rep
toriffs.
4. Full review
phased inpli
revenue neut
including:
- tax on agr
wealth;
- more unifo
S. Reform of cu
administrati
8. Simplificati
application



ANNEX V
Page I of 3
iustmeant Credit Program
The Structural Adjustment Program
Actions Taken                 Conditions of Tranche Releases
t of the compotitlveness                                              1.  2nd Trencho - Proparation of a
o economy as port of                                                     macroeconomic dovelopment
.t;on of governmentts                                                     strotegy and lmplemontation
conomle development                                                       plan, satisfactory to IDA,
y and implementation                                                      including compot;tivoness
rev iew.
3rd Tranche - Satisfactory
progress in carrying out the
implomentation plan referred to
above.
I of export taxes.           2. Removal of export taxos and
stamp duty on export sales,
July 1986.
implementation of an        3. Removal of 71 item frOm              8.  2nd tranche - Government will
program for eliminating         negative list (QRs) and                 agree with IDA on an action
id replacing with                replacing with tariffs,                 plan for reducing the reminder
of the negative list.
3rd Tranche - Governmnt will
griTeit a reed plan.
view of tax system and      4.  Completion of tax study; and        4.  Effectiveness - study
implementation of               agreement that substantive tax          recomendations reviewed by
neutral tax reform,            changes will be made only in            IDA. Agrement with IDA on
ng:                             frameork of tax package agreod          broad principles of tax reform.
n agricustural lncome or        with IDA.                               2nd Tranche - Reform package
h;                                                                      and implementation schedule
uniform consumption tax.                                                agreead with IDA.
3rd Tranch. - satisfactory
lmplementation of tax reform.
)f customs                  S. Reform of customs
bration.                        administration.
ication of Investment       8.  full implementation of
Oion procedures.                simplified procedures for
investment application review.



-4
Policy Area                   Measures Taken prior to the SAC
D.1 ec;ti y$s/s8sues
Aaricultural Sector Policies &
programs
Objective - To increase agricultur-    Banana Marketing Corporation             1.  Formul
al production A exports J improve       restructured to enhance operating           of a a
dfficiency of Ministry of               effiiency.                                  asricu
Agriculture's operations.
Banana packing and transportation -
privatized.
UK-financed banana expansion
program launched. Involves assured
supplies of fertilizer to
facilitate yield increase and
expanded acreage.
Neow mrketing agency for export
promo ion and markot development of
nont-aditional agricultural
proc cts formed.
RC export market for processed
citrus secured.
2. Deconti
prices,
Public Sector Investment Program
Objective - To develop the capacity    Project monitoring system                1. Formula
to formulate and monitor PSIP and       Introduced In GOA.                          1967/81
integrate PSIP formulation with
capital budgeting process.              EDU brought into Ministry of
Finance.
Institutional arrangements for PSIP                                             2. IDC mor
formulation and monitoring are                                                      a core
limited. Continued efforts                                                          (recurr
requred to strengthen capability,                                                   tourism
promoti
1988/89
. Implems
program
strengt
formula
a 3-yea
pol icy
i ntegra
capital



42                                                                  ANX V
Page 2 of 3
The Structural Adjustment Program
Actions Taken                  Conditions of Tranche Releases
ilation and Implemetation                                              1.  2nd Tranch. - preparation of an
strategy for upgrading the                                                 acton pian for training
-ultural extension service,                                                extension staff.
3rd Tranche - satisfactory
Implementation of the plan.
trot of agricultural          2. Removal of prico controls on
-.                                 livestock and poultry products.
lotion of a core PSIP for     1. Agreement with IDA on core PSIP    1.  2nd Tranche - agreement on core
88 and 1988/89.                   for 1987/88                              PIPW for FV88/89.
3rd Tranche - none.
erger; and formulation of     2. Agreement with IDA on programs        2. 2nd Tranche - complete IDC
* expenditure program             for merged IOC and Tour7lt               mergr; agreement on
rrent *nd capital) for            Board for 1987/88.                       oxpenditure program for merged
mm and mnufacturing                                                        IDC for FY8*/89.
tion for 1987/8S and                                                       3rd Tranche - none.
S9 annually.
mntation of a phased          3.  Agreement with IDA on phased        3.  2nd Tranche - satisfactory
mi of institutional               program for strengthening PSIP           impleoont&tion of phased
the"nng so as to                  formulation and monitoring,             program.
late, analyze and monitor                                                 3rd Tranche - satisfactory
ar rolling PSIP, conduct                                                   impiementatIon of phased
f level reviews, and                                                      program.
-ate PSIP process with
ki budgeting process.



Policy Area                  Measures Taken perior to the SAC
061 ecti vesll*U su
Pubicl Sector WaLo   A Eploment
Objective - to introduce a wage         Automatic annual increments on          1. Design and
policy as a principal macroeconote    civil service salaries discontinued          appropriote
policy tool; and to extend uniform      July 1986.                                  public sect
wages policy to public enterprises                                                  real wsge li
Under Dominica's restrictive            Comprehensive organization, methods         Improving C4
exchange rate arrangement within a      and manpower survey launched.
comon central bank, wgs  policy         Designed to raise civil service
became a critical determinant of        productivity and reduce government
export competitiveness and              employment.
macroeeonomic performance.
Contral Water Authority dissolved
To contribute to raising public         with a view to creating new agency
setor savings - publie sector           with reduced staff and Increased
savings performnce improved in          operating efficiency.
recent years; further efforts are
necessary to meet its financing
r~equirements.
2. Development
institutions
neotiatlon
sector.
3. Organization
exercis to
productivity
service and,
requirements
effecting ec



_ 43 -                                                          ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
The Structural AdJustment Program
Actiona Taken                 Conditions of Tranche ReIeases
I lupl_mentation of an    1. Adoption of policy that next         1.  2nd Tranch. - maIntain freeze
* Waes policy In the          three-year wese contract                on iTnimu wag, nd targeted
er aimed at reducing          1988/89-1990/91 Will I imit wage        ratios for civil service
Inereases and                bill tncreases to 3x per year;          salaries.
competitiveness.             that there w*il be no increase           3rd Tranch. - Introdue agreed
in the minimum waS° during the         wage policy; and maintain
program period; and target the          freeze on minimum wage, and
ratio of civil service salaries        targeted ratios for civil
to:  (a) recurrent revenues to          service salaries.
decline from 53X in 1985/86 to
S0 in 1988/89; and (b)
recurrent expenditures to
remain constant at S6X
b of procedures for                                              2.  2nd Trench* - Introduction of
itlizing wae                                                         new leglaT-stion to promote more
i throughout public                                                  orderly wage negotiations
throughout public sector.
8rd Tranche - none.
an and Methods                                                   3.  2nd Tranch- - completion of OhM
Incresse                                                          Phae III.
Iy in the civil                                                      3rd Tranche - none.
exomine manpower
. with a view to
mconnmles.



__I IBRD 13502R
p.~~~~.  
DOMINICA                                                                ST AtTTI AND
I  . .    SO,JT  AMeRiC A
\~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* AS,_  ,&.0 TA 0S  _,A _,A _, _S _I _AS    1
q- ,. 05 ,;rICe S #CICAOSAAltflAB*0, _
PORTSMOUTH
K ST   J O H N                                          \_
S TV
0\  SOASMs                T,
mmo, ~ ~        ~         ~        ~         r                     ,jri
PmishSoICnda,ie
o1i 2 3 0 3s
(ROSEAU           7>     
*u*es                                    S  T 
MA RK
MARCH 1987



