Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13312
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
JULY 8, 1994
Country Department III
Country Operations Division 2
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Eastern Caribbean Dollar (EC$)
US$ 1.00 = EC$ 2.70
Since its creation in 1965, until July 1976, the Eastern Caribbean dollar was linked to the
pound sterling at the rate of £1.00 = EC$ 4.8. Since July 1976, the Eastern Caribbean
dollar has been linked to the US dollar at the rate of US$ 1.00 = EC$ 2.70.
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CARICOM           Caribbean Common Market
CDB               Caribbean Development Bank
CEM               Country Economic Memorandum
CET               Common External Tariff
ECCB              Eastern Caribbean Central Bank
EDU               Economic Development Unit
EEC               European Economic Community
FY                Fiscal Year
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDA               International Development Association
IDC               Industrial Development Corporation
IMF               International Monetary Fund
NDC               National Development Corporation
OECS              Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
O&M               Organization and Management
PFP               Policy Framework Paper
PSIP              Public Sector Investment Program
SAC               Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF               Structural Adjustment Facility
SAP               Structural Adjustment Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
July 8, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Program Completion Report on Dominica -
Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1817-DOM)
Attached is the Program Completion Report on Dominica - Structural Adjustment Credit (Credit 1817-
DOM) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.
The SAC aimed at improving the macroeconomic, incentive and institutional framework through: (i)
trade liberalization and tax and incentive systems reforms; (ii) rationalization of public sector wages and
public employment policies; (iii) strengthening of the public investment program; and (iv) upgrading of
agricultural extension services. The Government's program was also supported by the IMF and the
Caribbean Development Bank.
During the first two years of the Program (1986/87 - 1987/88) most macro economic targets were
exceeded while reforms in the area of public employment, taxes and incentives were initiated. During the
third year of the SAC, however, the situation deteriorated under the combined impact of Hurricane Hugo
and, rising resistance by the labor unions to the government wage policy. As a result, passing of the Civil
Service Act was postponed from the second tranche to the third one. The delays resulted in six extensions
of the closing date while the limit on civil service salary increase was exceeded by the Government in 1990,
jeopardizing the viability of the program. Finally, in August 1992, the Government asked for the SAC to
be closed in view of the continued delays, with US$900,000 from the original US$3,000,000 being canceled.
Based on the PCR's clear and convincing account, the SAC's outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, the
institutional development impact as modest and sustainability as unlikely.
The Borrower's contribution to the PCR highlights the initial benefits of the program in the
macroeconomic policy areas, and attributes the subsequent deterioration in the economic picture to the failure
of the private sector to respond to the Government policy, and the slow progress in passing the Civil Service
Act to the difficulty of reaching social consensus in this area within a relative short time span.
The PCR brings out two main lessons of experience: (i) repeated extensions of the closing dates when
linked to a very critical condition such as the Civil Service reform are to be avoided; and (ii) pushing such
difficult issues into second or third tranche release, rather than resolving them before appraisal and/or
negotiations is undesirable.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMNICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDrT 1817-DOM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...... ...........                    ....................
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE  ...... .........
I.    PROJECT IDENTITY  ................................ 1
II. BACKGROUND...
A.    Economic Developments in the Early 1980s ...............1
B.    Request for Adjustment Assistance and the Role of IDA  ... ....  2
m.  THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT .............                            5
A.    Objectives of the Government's Adjustment Program  ...   ......  5
B.    Design of the SAC   .............................  5
Trade, Tax Reform and Investment Incentives ...   ......  5
Govemment Wage and Employment Policies ...       .......  7
Public Sector Investmnent Program  ................  7
Agriculture ..............................  8
C.    The Role of Other Donors  .........................  8
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SAC ............                                    8
A.    Credit Effectiveness and the Tax Reform Proposal ....   .......  8
B.    Compliance with Second Tranche Conditionality and Credit
Amendment.                                                       9
C.    Compliance with Third Tranche Conditionality and Credit
Cancellation ....... 10
D. Audit ......... 12
V.    IMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM   ...... .......... 12
A.    Achieving the Economic Objectives .................... 12
The Period of Economic Recovery (1986/87-88/89) ...... 12
The Period of Economic Slowdown (1989/90-1991/92)  ...  13
B.    Instituting Policy Reforms .......................... 14
Trade Reform .......         ...................... 14
Tax Reform and Investment Incentives Framework ... ... 15
Wages, Employment Policies and Institutional
Improvements in the Public Sector ....     ............ 15
Agriculture ........        ...................... 16
C.    Social Impact of Adjustment ........................ 16
VI.   ASSESSMENT AND CONCLUSIONS ........... ........... 16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .... 19
PART III. BASIC DATA SHEET ............................. 22
ANNEXES
I      Chronology of the SAC ................................  23
II     Conditionality-Compliance Matrix .......................... 24
III    Key Economic Indicators ............................... 27



i
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
PREFACE
This Program Completion Report (PCR) is an evaluation of the Dominica Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC). The Credit was approved by the Board on June 9, 1987, for the
amount, in various currencies, equivalent to SDR 2.4 million (US$3 million equivalent) to be
disbursed in three equal tranches. The first tranche was disbursed upon effectiveness on
September 10, 1987. The second tranche was released on October 12, 1988, after the Credit
Agreement was amended. Subsequently, six extensions of the closing date were granted
from the original date of December 1989. The third tranche (SDR 0.74 million) was
cancelled in August 1992 at the request of the Government.
The PCR was prepared by the Country Operations Division 2, Country Department
III, of the Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III, and Annexes). The Government of Dominica was requested to present its
own evaluation, which is included as Part II. The Government also reviewed Parts I, III and
the Annexes and has indicated its general satisfaction with the PCR.
Preparation of the PCR was based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the credit
documents, credit and staff files, Bank economic reports, IMF reports, as well as discussions
with Bank and IMF staff, and with Government officials of the Commonwealth of Dominica.






PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    Following independence in 1978, Dominica has been facing serious development
challenges. A small island economy with difficult terrain, a paucity of financial and human
resources, and a narrow production base (primarily bananas), Dominica is also subject to
periodic natural disasters. Production of bananas, the main agricultural crop, is not
competitive with the Central American "dollar" bananas and exports of bananas depend upon
preferential access to the United Kingdom under the Lome Convention. The present
Government, which came to power in 1980, confronted major rehabilitation efforts following
hurricane damage. Reconstruction of infrastructure was financed with the assistance of
donors, including IDA. The reconstruction was accompanied by a stabilization program,
supported by the IMF. The program reforms brought about improvements in public
finances, but these were temporary and did not invoke a sufficient response from the rest of
the economy, particularly with regard to investment and exports (paras. 2-3).
ii.   Thus, by 1985 growth had slowed down significantly (1.3% compared with 5.5% in
1984). This was due to stagnation in agricultural and manufacturing exports, as well as
completion of major infrastructure projects. Banana export earnings increased modestly in
1980-85 as the export price remained relatively constant in nominal terms (increasing by an
average 1.5% per annum during 1980-85; see Graph II, Part I), while decreasing in real
terms (by 1 % a year on average). The real effective exchange rate appreciated by 32 %
during 1980-1985, reflecting the rise of the US dollar to which the EC dollar is pegged, a
development which weakened Dominica's international competitiveness significantly
(Graph I, Part I). Wages increased faster than consumer prices. Public savings were low
(0.6% of GDP during 1984-85) and the current account deficit of the balance of payments
reached 21 % of GDP in 1985. International reserves had fallen to less than one month of
imports.
iii.   These developments prompted the Government to formulate a Structural Adjustment
Program (SAP) in 1986. It requested support from the IMF through a Structural Adjustment
Facility (SAF) and a complementary Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) from IDA. Support
was sought also from the Caribbean Development Bank and the USAID. In November 1986,
agreement was reached on the SAF and seven months later the SAC was signed. The
Government's policy program was reflected in a Policy Framework Paper (PFP), prepared
with the assistance of the IMF and IDA; and a Letter of Development Policy for the SAC.
Objectives of the Adjustment Program
iv.   The principal objective of the Government's adjustment program (1986/87-1988/89)
was to achieve a sustainable rate of economic growth for Dominica through increasing
private sector led investment and exports, containing public external debt and encouraging



iii
domestic savings. Specifically, the program aimed at (i) raising the annual rate of real
growth of GDP to 4%; (ii) increasing Government savings to 2-3% of GDP per annum from
an estimated 1 % the previous year; and (iii) reducing the current account deficit of the
balance of payments to approximately 17% from 21% in 1985. The IMF program was
designed to improve Government finances through actions in fiscal policy and debt
management. The SAC was devised to improve the macroeconomic, incentive and
institutional framework through the adoption of specific actions in the following policy areas:
(i) liberalizing trade and reforming the tax and incentive system (paras. 11-15); (ii)
rationalizing public sector wages and public employment policies (paras. 16-18); (iii)
strengthening the public investment program (para. 19); and (iv) upgrading agricultural
extension services (para. 20).
v.    Dominica's scope for maneuver in the areas of exchange rate, monetary policies and
international trade has been constrained by its membership in the Eastern Caribbean
Currency Union and CARICOM (paras. 11,13). Thus, the design and the success of the
adjustment program has hinged upon the strengthening of the fiscal situation including the
pursuit of a prudent wage policy (para. 16). As discussed below, this latter aspect of the
program came to play a major role in the delay experienced under the SAC and in the
viability of the program.
Implementation and Results
vi.   A significant number of structural reforms were undertaken under the SAC (see
below) and most macroeconomic targets were exceeded during the first two years of the
program (paras. 40-43). During 1986-88, real growth averaged 7% per annum due to
increases in banana production in response to favorable exchange rate movements of the EC
dollar vis-a-vis the pound sterling (the EC$ depreciated by 27% in real effective terms
between 1985 and 1988). Banana export volumes more than doubled during this period,
increasing from approximately 33,900 metric tons (1985) to 72,300 (1988), while export unit
prices rose from US$393 to US$531 per metric ton (Graph II). The strong export
performance helped narrow the external current account deficit to an average 9% of GDP
during this period. Strong growth also was aided by the Government's success in restraining
current outlays, including containing wage expenditures to the 3% per annum stipulated
under the SAC. Improvements in the tax system were implemented also, including a levy on
windfall gains from banana exports (para. 48). Government savings averaged 4% of GDP
during this period, exceeding the SAC program targets.
vii.  The end of 1989, however, marked a shift in the performance of the economy and the
Government's ability to respond rapidly to changes in the external environment. Hurricane
Hugo (September 1989) caused considerable damage to banana production and exports,
slowing growth significantly (paras. 44-46). Banana export volumes declined from the
decade high of 72,300 tons (1988) to 56,700 in 1991. Unfavorable movements in the pound
sterling/EC$ exchange rate impacted negatively on export performance. Furthermore, fiscal
discipline weakened as the Government granted a large civil service wage award of 21 % (see
below) at the end of 1990 and financed major investment projects through borrowing from
domestic banks. The pickup in the rate of increase of domestic wages and prices was a
major factor behind the appreciation of the EC$ in 1990-92 (6.5% in real effective terms),
along with the depreciation of the Jamaican dollar. The civil service award also resulted in
the rise of the Central Government's current expenditure to 29% of GDP in FY90/91, after



iv
the ratio had improved to 25% in FY89/90. As a result of the above developments,
Government savings fell to less than 2% during FY89/90-FY91/92, and the current account
deficit of the balance of payments rose to 24% of GDP.
viii.  Implementation of the SAC did not proceed according to the initially envisaged
timetable. A main reason for the delays was non-compliance with the condition pertaining to
simplification and improvement of the wage negotiations procedure in the public sector
(condition xi). This condition, which was to be implemented prior to second tranche release,
was part of the reform measures of Dominica's wage policy, along with conditionality
pertaining to minimum wages and salary increases (paras. 16-17). Since late 1986, the
Government had been formulating legislation, the Civil Service Act, which would, inter alia,
establish a Board of Arbitration to settle wage disputes if after three months of negotiations
the parties had not reached an agreement. However, it encountered strong opposition from
labor unions. So as not to hold up disbursement of the second tranche (all other second
tranche conditions had been met), the Credit Agreement was amended in September 1988 to
move condition xi to the third tranche (para. 26). The second tranche was released in
October 1988. Subsequently, six credit closing date extensions (paras. 27-30) were granted
to allow time for passage of the Civil Service Act and for an overall assessment of the
program by IDA.
ix.   Upon passage of the Act (November 28, 1991), a third tranche review mission visited
the country (December 15-18, 1991). The mission found that while six of the eight
conditions had been satisfactorily complied with, the extent of reduction of items on the
negative list of imports was not satisfactory (para. 31). Furthermore, violations with regards
to both aspects of condition xvi had occurred: the limits on civil service pay increases and
the freeze on minimum wages. In November 1990, the Government granted a retroactive
civil service salary increase of 21 % for the period FY88/89-FY90/9 1. It had earlier, in
November 1989, increased the minimum wage by 50% (para. 29).
x.    The liberalization of the trade regime was ultimately complied with by March 1992
(paras. 33-34). The backpay salary increases, however, led to a deterioration of public
finances, and the viability of the program was threatened (para. 35). After a series of policy
discussions in Washington and in Dominica, IDA proposed a final extension of the closing
date, so as to allow the Government further time to undertake specific measures to improve
public finances. The Government, however, decided on August 13, 1992, not to seek a
further extension in view of the long delays already experienced, and the SAC was closed
(paras. 36-37).
xi.   A summary of the reforms undertaken under the SAC is presented below. A detailed
account is provided in section V, Part I.
(a)   Measures which were satisfactorily implemented.
xii.   These measures include progress in the areas of (i) trade liberalization; (ii) reform of
the tax structure; and (iii) upgrading of agricultural extension services. In the area of trade,
the number of items on the negative list of imports was reduced from over 200 in 1987 to 40
items in 1992, accounting for less than 20% of total imports. This was considered by IDA
as sufficient progress. The Government, in fact has moved beyond what was agreed upon
under the SAC by revising the Common External Tariff (CET) in 1991 to 0-45% from 0-



v
70%, and more recently has agreed to a revised 5-20% CET, with the first phase introduced
by September 1993. In the tax structure, substantial progress was achieved in simplifying
the regime and reforming direct and indirect taxes. Among the major reforms undertaken
was the unification of the consumption tax for imports and domestically produced goods, the
reduction and unification of the corporate income tax rate, the imposition of a levy on
bananas exported by the Dominica Banana Marketing Corporation, and reductions in the
steep progressivity of the income tax. These reforms contributed to making Dominica's tax
regime favorable to the development of private sector activity. In agriculture, skills of the
extension service staff were upgraded.
(b)   Measures which were implemented, but need further strengthening.
xiii.  These include (i) fiscal measures in public sector wages and employment policy;
(ii) enhancement of competitiveness through an improved incentive framework; and (iii)
institutional strengthening measures. The mechanism regarding public sector wage awarda
and employment needs to be strengthened. It is critically important to reverse the erosion of
fiscal discipline after the granting of the 21% wage award in 1990. Wage negotiations,
begun in July 1992 with the civil service unions for the next contract period (FY91/92-
FY93/94), are still ongoing. The Government has proposed a 0% wage increase in
FY91/92, 3% in FY92/93, and beyond the latter date to depend on the outcome of the
Organization and Management (O&M) exercise. The O&M exercise (a condition of the
SAC) was designed to raise civil service productivity and to examine manpower requirements
of the civil service. It has been completed, but its recommendations will be implemented in
FY93/94.
xiv.  With regards to the incentive framework, the investment approval procedure needs
further streamlining. The "one-stop shop" that was envisaged when the National
Development Corporation (NDC) was established still requires six to eight months for an
application to be approved, and prospective investors must submit up to eighteen documents
to various ministries and agencies.
xv.   Finally, on the institutional strengthening side, the process of formulating and
monitoring the PSIP was consolidated under the Economic Development Unit (EDU) and
training was provided to staff. In practice, however, the PSIP needs to be linked to sectoral
priorities and budgetary considerations. The PSIP remains, by and large, the aggregation of
capital estimates made by the various ministries. Strengthening the PSIP process is
particularly urgent today as rapid external changes necessitate a quick response from the
Government in prioritizing its development strategy.
Sustainability
xvi.  Reform measures addressing public sector wage and employment policies were not
sustained in the medium term. Both prior to the election in May 1990 and after winning by
only a one vote majority, the Government was in a vulnerable political position compared to
the start of the reform process two years earlier. Thus, with the granting of the large civil
service wage award in November 1990, Dominica's public finances weakened considerably,
eroding some of the economic gains achieved during the first two years of the adjustment
program. As mentioned earlier, an appropriate incomes policy was central for maintaining
Dominica's international competitiveness, particularly given the constraints in the use of



vi
other policy tools. It is for this reason that IDA insisted that the Government adopt
compensating measures subsequent to the granting of the wage awards, as the viability of the
program was threatened (paras. 33,35). This continues to be a priority in the country's
medium-term economic strategy (1993-96). The Government's fiscal position could be
altered significantly if the next wage award is higher than 1 % per annum (every 1 % increase
in public sector wages increases public expenditures by 2% of current revenues). The rest of
the reforms adopted under the SAC, however, remain in place.
Assessment and Lessons of Experience
xvii. Overall, the design of the SAC program and conditions was appropriate in addressing
the main issues of fiscal adjustment, competitiveness and incentive framework, and
institutional strengthening (paras. 56-57). While several components of the SAC could have
been more fully addressed in the design, such as agricultural development and investment
incentives, it was also prudent not to overtax the implementation capacity of the Government.
xviii. As has been demonstrated, almost all the conditions were complied with. Dominica
also benefited from the depreciation of the US dollar (beginning in 1985) in meeting its
growth, fiscal and balance of payments targets. Why is it then, that Dominica today faces
many of the same economic challenges as at the outset of its adjustment program?
xix.  The following factors can be cited as having detracted from the impact of the
adjustment measures. First, while Dominica fulfilled almost all the conditions, it is
particularly the violated condition (wage policy) that was the most basic to the success and
viability of the SAC. Both the strengthening of public finances and the economy's
competitiveness depended upon containing the growth of wages and employment. The
magnitude of the civil service awards in the public sector increases the pressure for higher
awards in other sectors. Thus, with the current wage structure, Dominica has the second
highest civil service pay structure in the OECS, decreasing its competitiveness in the region.
Second, a significant number of conditions that have been fulfilled need further deepening.
This is the case with the strengthening of the PSIP process, the streamlining of the wage
negotiations procedures, the O&M exercise designed to raise the efficiency of the civil
service, and the simplification of the investment application process. The length of time
required for the approval of an investment application is considerably longer than several of
its neighbors where investment applications are approved within one month. Third, the
continuous delays in the credit weakened the Government's ability to fully implement the
program. With the original SAP period defined from 1986/87-1988/89, and the IMF SAF
ending in 1988/89, the SAC lost momentum and came to be regarded as a set of individual
conditions remaining to be fulfilled, rather than as a contained program. Furthermore, after
elections in May 1990, the Government retained only a one vote majority in Parliament,
hence, weakened its ability to maintain the momentum of the reform effort. Fourth, the
"stretching out" of some of the reforms, such as the trade liberalization measures, from two
years to over four and a half years, reduced their potential impact. Fifth, the persistence of
attractive prices for banana exports, particularly in the period up to 1990, led to increased
concentration of banana production, even though the SAC sought to stimulate economic
diversification. Finally, Hurricane Hugo in 1989 was a setback to the economy.
xx.   With regards to the social impact of adjustment, there is little information on poverty
indicators. It is the case, however, that during 1986-90, the average yearly wage award was



vii
6.2% in the government sector and 5.8% in the private sector (with inflation averaging 3.4%
per annum). Most unionized unskilled workers are paid well above the minimum wage.
Unemployment dropped during 1986-89 from approximately 15% to 10%. Furthermore,
Dominica has in place a social safety net with an adequately managed social security system
and targeted cash transfers to the most vulnerable groups.
xxi.  The following lessons can be learned from the experience of the Dominica SAC:
(i) The cost of extending a credit long beyond the original closing date may outweigh
potential benefits. Such extensions increase the probability that the adjustment
program would come under a variety of disruptive factors, both external and internal.
In addition, it becomes difficult to maintain motivation and momentum for a reform
program that was originally designed for a much shorter period. The risk of the
Government encountering political difficulties increases.
(ii) For the success and smooth implementation of a program, it may be prudent to
resolve the more difficult issues before appraisal and/or negotiations. Pushing such
issues into second or third tranche release, because they are difficult, may only serve
to postpone action indefinitely and impede progress in implementing other reform
measures.
(iii) With regards to IDA adjustment operations in small economies, several lessons
can be drawn from the experience of Dominica. Firstly, the limited capacity of a
small economy, in designing and implementing such operations, creates the need for
capacity-building measures (such as an implementation team) alongside the operation.
Such measures are also important in order to enhance ownership and public awareness
of the project in the recipient country. Secondly, donor coordination in a small
economy becomes extremely important, both during the design phase as well as
implementation. This is because of the need not to overburden the country's capacity,
in addition to ensuring an efficient "division" of reform measures among the donors.
Thirdly, small (island) economies are very vulnerable and susceptible to changes in
the external environment, as well as to any lapses in the internal reform process.
Thus, adjustment operations may need to have a build-in mechanism which addresses
these potential disruptions.
xxii.  In conclusion, it is important to stress that reforms are still needed in Dominica today
and many of the SAC adjustment measures remain highly relevant. The economy is facing
disruption in its banana production and exports as a consequence of the diminution of the
EEC's preferential banana arrangements, as well as reductions in concessional aid flows.
The policy agenda, as identified in the Medium Term Economic Strategy Paper currently
under preparation, includes: (i) improving fiscal balances and management; (ii) eliminating
barriers to private sector development; (iii) improving the country's international
competitiveness; (iv) economic diversification; and (v) further strengthening of the PSIP
process and the administrative capacity to implement reform policies and programs.



PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
PART I. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:      Structural Adjustment Credit
Loan Number:       1817-DOM
Region:            Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:           Commonwealth of Dominica
Sector:            Non-project Lending
H1. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Developments in the Early 1980s
1.    Following independence in 1978, Dominica was faced with difficult development
challenges. A small island economy, based primarily on agriculture and agroprocessing, it
was also subject to periodic natural disasters. Inadequate infrastructure and a paucity of
human and financial resources further constrained economic development. The country's
main economic product, bananas, was not competitive with the Central American "dollar"
bananas and exports depended upon preferential access to the United Kingdom under the
Lome Convention.
2.    The present Government, which came to power in 1980, faced major rehabilitation
efforts due to the damage caused by hurricanes in 1979 and 1980. With assistance from
donor agencies, including IDA, the country's infrastructure improved substantially, and
programs were launched for crop rehabilitation and integrated rural development. The
reconstruction efforts were accompanied by stabilization programs, supported by the IMF
(1981). These measures brought about significant improvement in public finances. This was
achieved by strict containment of current expenditure and rigorous tax efforts. The Central
Government's current balance moved from a deficit of 10.8% of GDP in FY80/81 to a
balanced position in FY84/85.
3.    Despite these improvements, the response from the rest of the economy was slow,
particularly with regard to investment and exports. GDP growth registered a modest 1.3%
in 1985 and unemployment was estimated at 15%. Wages rose significantly faster than
consumer prices, and the real effective exchange rate appreciated by 32% during 1980-1985,



2
weakening Dominica's international competitiveness significantly (Graph I).' Banana export
earnings increased modestly as the export price was relatively flat, rising by an average
1.5% per annum in nominal terms during 1980-85 (Graph II), and decreasing in real terms
(by 1 % a year on aveage). Manufacturing exports were depressed due to economic
difficulties in the CARICOM region, Dominica's main market. The current account deficit
of the balance of payments averaged 20% of GDP in 1984-1985, covered largely by
concessionary aid. The Government's ability to generate public savings remained limited (a
negligible 0.6%  of GDP in 1984-85), and public sector investment (21% of GDP in 1984-85)
was financed almost entirely from external assistance. The period 1981-85 saw the doubling
of Dominica's external debt, which by 1985 represented 129% of exports of goods and
nonfactor services and 51 % of GDP. External debt service represented some 14% of the
Central Government's current revenues.
B.    Request for Adjustment Assistance and the Role of IDA
4.    In light of these developments, the Government in 1986 formulated a three year
Structural Adjustment Program (1986/87-1988/89). It subsequently requested an arrangement
for a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) from the IMF and a complementary Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) from IDA . Support was also sought from the Caribbean
Development Bank and the USAID.
5.    Based on discussions with IDA and the IMF, the Government prepared a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) in November 1986. Soon after, it reached an agreement with the
IMF on a three-year SAF. In January 1987, the SAC was appraised and negotiations were
successfully concluded by April 1987. The SAC agreement was presented to the Board on
June 9, 1987, and signed on June 18, 1987, for an equivalent of US$3 million. The Credit
was to be disbursed in three equal tranches over a period of approximately two years.
6.    IDA lending to Dominica, as part of the OECS, was guided by the broad principles of
the Board document entitled "Terms of Lending to Small Island Economies Graduating from
IDA" (November 18, 1985). The strategy was to facilitate the transition from IDA to full
Bank eligibility by providing linited access to IDA credit over the medium term for
operations that would address critical economic policy issues and thus aim at strengthening
creditworthiness by the end of the decade. The SAC was the first such policy-based
operation in the OECS, and the third direct credit to Dominica.2 It was envisaged that such
IDA and Fund programs would also be catalysts for mobilizing additional external resources.
1/    Since 1976, the Eastern Caribbean dollar has been linked to the US dollar at the rate of US$ 1.00 = ECS
2.70. Dominica is a member of the Eastern Caribbean Currency Union and shares a common currency
with the other OECS countries. Any realignment of the exchange rate is possible only by unanimous
decision of all member states.
2/    The first credit was for Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (US$5 million), approved in 1982 and
completed satisfactorily in May 1985. The second credit, approved in March 1987 and still in operation, is
a US$3 million loan for a hydro power project. Other IDA lending to Dominica is channelled through the
Caribbean Development Bank.



Graph I
Dominica: Real Effective Exchange Rate Index, 1980-93    a/ b/
135                                                   (1 980=100)
130
125
120
115
-i)
110
105
100
95
90
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
a/ 1993 = 1 at quarter average
b/ Decline represents depreciation of currency                                                                         Source: IMF



Granh II
780                         Dominica: Banana Export Volumes and Prices, 1980-92   a/
680
580
Banana Export Price (US$/metric ton)
480                                 /
380 -,
280                 ----- -i
,/                              Banana Export Volume ('OOs metric tons)
180
80 -,                ll                                                  illll
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
a/ 1992 price estimated                                                                                          Source: IMF



5
mI. THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.   Objectives of the Goverment's Adjustment Program
7.    The principal objective of the Government's medium term program (1986/87-
1988/89), as defined in its Policy Framework Paper (PFP), was to increase the rate of
economic growth to a sustainable level. This was to be achieved through policies aimed at
strengthening the fiscal and balance of payments position, containing public external debt and
improving the potential for domestic savings. The thrust of economic growth was to come
from the private sector, with the public sector providing the appropriate macroeconomic and
regulatory environment, and supportive infrastructure. Thus, the program required
improvements in competitiveness and the incentive framework, increased efficiency of
government operations through institutional reform, and strict fiscal discipline.
8.    Specifically, the program aimed at: (i) raising the annual rate of real growth of GDP
from an estimated 1.3% in 1985 to 3.5-4% for the program period; (ii) gradually increasing
Government savings from an estimated 1% of GDP in FY85/86 to 2-3% by FY88/89; and
(iii) reducing the external sector's current account deficit to approximately 17% of GDP from
21% in 1985.
B.   Desien of the SAC
9.    The SAC was designed to support the Government's three year structural adjustment
program. It was devised to improve the macroeconomic, incentive and institutional
framework through specific actions in the following policy areas: (i) liberalizing trade and
reforming the tax and incentive system; (ii) rationalizing public sector wages and
employment policies; (iii) strengthening the public investment program; and (iv) upgrading
agricultural extension services. The credit financed all imports with the exception of luxury
items, military goods, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products.
10.   The policy actions of the SAC are summarized in the matrix in Annex II, along with
the conditions for each tranche release and compliance. Credit conditions covered almost all
areas of the SAC and were to be initiated or implemented by second tranche release. With
the exception of actions pertinent to wages, third tranche release was conditional upon
"satisfactory progress" being made in the implementation of the second tranche action plans.
The main features and links of the policy reforms to the macroeconomic objectives are
described below.
(i)   Trade. Tax Reform and Investment Incentives
11.   Dominica's trade policy conformed to the requirements of its membership in the
CARICOM which has a Common External Tariff (CET). The CET and other CARICOM
arrangements placed constraints on Dominica's latitude for tariff reform. One area under
national control, however, was the export taxes and some 200 items requiring import licenses
(the negative list). By the time of negotiations, the Government had eliminated all export
taxes. Prior to Board presentation, 71 items (35%) were removed from the negative list.
The Government agreed to carry out a review of the remaining items and to formulate a plan
of action to further reduce the list prior to release of the second tranche (condition ii).



6
Satisfactory progress in carrying out the agreed action plan was a condition of the third
tranche release (condition xiv). As reflected in the minutes of negotiations, the Government
could not commit itself to the removal of all the items because some were restricted either
due to their nature (pyrotechnic fireworks) or to regional agreements.
12.   Dominica's tariff structure was determined by a combination of the CET and
consumption taxes, stamp duties and other charges on imports imposed for revenue purposes.
The resulting effective tariff was comparatively high, with an average nominal rate of 36%,
and a high variance from 0% to 104%. The Government agreed that consumption tax
adjustments included in the proposed tax reform package (para. 14) would reduce dispersion
and remove the discrimination between domestic production and imports (condition iv).
13.   With respect to exchange rate policy, Dominica's membership in the ECCB limited its
ability to use the exchange rate as a tool to adjust its economy. In order to address its
decreasing competitiveness (a persistently large resource gap equivalent to 25% of GDP in
1985 and rapidly rising real wages), the Government agreed to adopt an active wage policy
(paras. 16-18) and conduct a competitiveness review as part of its preparation of a
macroeconomic development strategy (condition i). The strategy was to include sectoral
analysis, as well as an implementation plan. Third tranche release was conditional upon
satisfactory progress in carrying out the implementation plan (condition xiii).
14.   Dominica's tax system had developed over the years largely in response to revenue
needs. It was characterized by a steep progressive personal income tax, very high
dependence on trade taxes, and a complex system of taxes and levies on the business sector.
On the other hand, there was no property tax and agricultural income was exempt. Thus, the
tax system had serious negative incentive and equity aspects. At the time of loan
negotiations, the Government had already taken some measures to reduce the disincentive
effect of the system, including the removal of all taxes on local commercial bank deposits,
reducing the company profits tax and the customs service charge for manufacturing firms. It
had also initiated a comprehensive review of the tax system. The Government agreed to
reach an understanding with IDA on the broad principles of a tax reform prior to credit
effectiveness. Prior to release of the second tranche, it was to agree with IDA on the tax
reform proposal, including a timetable for its implementation (condition iv). Third tranche
conditionality stipulated that progress be made in the implementation of the tax reform
proposal (condition xv).
15.   The numerous and overlapping reviews that investment applications had to pass
created a disincentive to investment. Each application was reviewed at five different levels,
and the outcome of this review process was often arbitrary. Improving this review process
was particularly urgent because it was one of the few factors influencing investor decisions
over which the Government had immediate control. During loan appraisal and negotiations,
the Government designed a simplified investment application procedure, which was to
convert the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC) into a "one-stop" agency for
investment approvals. To further improve the investment climate, the Government obtained
technical assistance to reform the customs administration, including a reduction in the scope
for arbitrary decisions in the enforcement of the tax and tariff codes. The Government also
developed a strategy to promote investment and tourism and reached agreement with IDA on
its expenditure program for the IDC and the Tourist Board for 1987/88. The above actions
were all taken prior to loan negotiations. As conditions for second tranche release the



7
Government committed itself to the merger of the IDC and the Tourist Board (condition v),
and to reaching an agreement on the expenditure program of the merged IDC for 1988/89
(condition vi).
(ii)   Government Wage and Employment Policies
16.   Under Dominica's restrictive macroeconomic policy regime, wage policy becomes a
critical determinant of international competitiveness and macroeconomic performance. The
Government is the single largest employer and spends a high share of its recurrent
expenditures (58%) on wages. The strength of the Civil Service Association, and the three-
year duration of wage contracts had made it difficult to control the growth of real wages.
The contract for FY85/86-FY87/88 was settled at an average nominal increase of 7% per
year (affording annual real increases of about 2%-5%).
17.   To limit the increase in real wages, the Government committed itself to several
actions. First, it agreed to maintain minimum wages at levels established in the Statutory
Rules and Order No. 4 of 1980 as a condition for both second (condition x) and third tranche
release (condition xvi). Second, steps would be taken to simplify and improve the
procedures for wage negotiations in the public sector prior to second tranche release
(condition xi). Third, as a condition of third tranche release, the Government agreed that
payments made to the civil service personnel would be limited to an annual increase of 3%
(nominal) under the wage contract for fiscal years 1989, 1990 and 1991 (condition xvi).
Finally, as a condition to both second and third tranche release, the Government would
ensure that civil service salaries would not exceed 50% of total recurrent revenues in fiscal
year 1989, nor would civil service salaries exceed 56% of total recurrent expenditures for
fiscal years 1988 and 1989 (conditions ix and xviii). The last condition was added during
negotiations when the Government could not commit itself to a wage bill increase of less than
3% per annum under the next civil service contract as IDA had desired.
18.   With regards to employment policies, the Government argued during credit
negotiations that there was little scope for reduction in the size of the civil service. The
administrative core is already small, amounting to 500 out of a total of 2,332 civil servants
(the remainder being educational and medical staff, security forces and technicians in
engineering and agriculture). However, it had launched an Organization and Management
(O&M) exercise designed to raise the efficiency of the civil service and examine manpower
requirements. Completion of this exercise was a condition for release of the second tranche
(condition viii).
(iii) Public Sector Investment Program
19.   An essential element of a development strategy is the formulation of the public sector
investment program (PSIP) which adequately reflects the Government's objectives and
priorities. With the termination of the Inter-agency Resident Mission in 1986, which had
provided substantial assistance in this regard, development of this capability had become
particularly urgent for Dominica. Prior to loan negotiations, the Government had
strengthened the Economic Development Unit (EDU) in the Ministry of Finance and
prepared a time-phased program of activities involving the EDU and key ministries. The
program was aimed at strengthening their ability to formulate and monitor a three-year
rolling PSIP. Satisfactory implementation of the Government's system for strengthening the



8
formulation and monitoring of the PSIP was a condition for release of the second and third
tranches (conditions vii and xvii). Prior to negotiations, the Government had also reached
agreement on the composition of a core PSIP for 1987/88 and on the expenditure programs
for the IDC and the Tourist Board. As a condition for second tranche release, the
Government had to reach further agreement on a core PSIP for 1988/89 (condition iii).
(iv) Agriculture
20.   The Government's emphasis in agriculture was on increasing productivity of the
traditional export crops (bananas, coconuts and citrus) and on diversifying into non-
traditional crops. Virtually all agricultural production was carried out by the private sector.
The Government provided institutional support and sponsors externally financed projects.
The diversification program initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture made heavy demands on
the Ministry's limited staff, in particular on the extension service where the ratio of extension
staff to farmers is low. In response to this situation, the Government agreed to furnish a
plan of action for upgrading the skills of the extension staff (condition xii). Satisfactory
implementation of the plan was a condition of third tranche release (condition xix). To
reduce distortions in the agricultural sector, the Government decreased the number of price
controlled items from 24 to 9 during loan appraisal and negotiation.
C.   The Role of Other Donors
21.   The IMF program (1986/87-1988/89) provided SDR2.8 million under a SAF
arrangement to ensure financial soundness of the Government. The essential components of
the SAF were: (i) limits on the Government's use of non-concessionary finances; (ii)
restrictions on government and government-guaranteed foreign borrowing on commercial
terms; and (iii) constraints on the accumulation of domestic or external payments arrears.
The CDB credit, signed on January 1988, provided financing equivalent to US$3.0 million.
It was directed at reforming a selected group of institutions to stimulate productive sector and
export activities. The USAID also provided program support of approximately US$3.0
million, with a specific focus on tax reform and improvement of civil service efficiency.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SAC
A.   Credit Effectiveness and the Tax Reform Proposal
22.   The Credit became effective on September 10, 1987 after IDA agreed with the
Government on the broad principles of a tax reform proposal. The principles included: (i)
the avoidance of multiple taxation; (ii) expansion of the tax base to include agricultural
income; and (iii) the phasing in of a unified consumption tax to domestically manufactured
goods. With regards to the taxation of agricultural income, IDA agreed that the
Government's proposed tax on banana exports would be more feasible since a tax on
agriculture income in general would be uncollectible. IDA's concern regarding the
disincentive effects of such an export tax was addressed by the fact that the tax would be low
(at less than 10% of gross banana earnings), and that there would be a built-in mechanism to
prevent losing competitiveness on banana exports. Hence, if the average export price fell
below a floor price, the tax would not be collected.



9
B.    Compliance with Second Tranche Conditionality and Credit Amendment
23.   The second tranche was originally to be released six months after the first tranche (by
March 1988). But release did not occur until October of that year due to slow progress in
several areas. The second tranche review mission (March 28-April 1, 1988) found that the
Government had complied with six of the twelve conditions, but had taken no action on the
remaining six. The macroeconomic framework was deemed sound, with GDP growth in
1987 and fiscal performance for FY87/88 surpassing program targets (para. 40-43).
Similarly, macroeconomic indicators for 1988 were expected to exceed earlier targets.
24.   One area of slow progress was the macroeconomic development strategy and its
implementation plan. The Government had encountered difficulty in securing timely
technical assistance to conduct its part of the study. The other part - the competitiveness
review study - was carried out and completed with assistance from IDA. Since IDA
considered the competitiveness study as the most important part of the macroeconomic
development strategy, it agreed to accept the study as fulfilling the macroeconomic
development strategy condition. Furthermore, the findings of the competitiveness study
confirmed many of the policy conditions already covered under the SAC.3
25.   Another area of delay was in reaching agreement on a timetable for implementing the
tax reform proposal, including the consumption tax. In July 1988, the Government agreed
that by FY89/90, it would discontinue the discrimination in the consumption tax between
imports and domestic products. IDA accepted this timetable to allow the small domestic
producers benefiting from the tax differential to adjust to the unified structure. Agreement
was also reached regarding the timing for reducing the steep progressivity of the income tax;
taxing agricultural income; and simplifying and consolidating indirect taxes. Accordingly,
compliance with the relevant condition was achieved.
26.   By September 1988, when another review by IDA was conducted, five of the six
remaining conditions had indeed been fulfilled. The one outstanding condition was that of
the new legislation - the Civil Service Act - required to put into effect a simplified system of
wage negotiations in the public sector. The first draft of the legislation had been prepared in
1987. Introducing the legislation to parliament was originally a pre-Board condition, but was
moved to second tranche because the Government's timetable slipped from March to July
1987. It subsequently slipped to July 1988. By September it was clear that the process
would be further delayed. IDA felt that the delay would not affect attainment of the
program's objectives, as the legislation was needed for the next round of negotiations, now
scheduled for 1989. Furthermore, the Government was in compliance with the other wage
policy conditions. It had granted an interim pay increase averaging 3%, within the range
stipulated under the SAC, and the targeted ratios for civil service salaries to current
expenditure and revenues were attained. Therefore, so as not to further delay second tranche
release, on September 28, 1988, IDA agreed to amend the Credit Agreement. The
3/    These included the reduction of the negative list of imports, the preparation of the PSIP and financing plan
with emphasis on expansion of infrastructure and/or human resource development projects financed from
local resources; wage restraints; and removal of the discrimination in the consumption tax between imports
and domestically produced goods. All these areas were already covered under the SAC.



10
outstanding condition on civil service wage negotiations was moved to the third tranche. On
October 12, the second tranche was released.
C.   Compliance with Third Tranche Conditionality and Credit Cancellation
27.  In amending the Credit Agreement, IDA recommended the Government seek technical
assistance to complete the final draft of the civil service legislation. The draft legislation
provided, inter alia, for a Board of Arbitration that would settle wage disputes if after three
months of discussions the parties had not reached an agreement. In March 1989, the draft
was cleared by IDA, but was not approved by the Cabinet until November. With the Credit
closing date approaching (December 31, 1989), the Government requested a first extension of
the closing date to September 30, 1990, as the next step required consultation with the Civil
Service Union and presentation of the legislation to Parliament. Since the Government was
confident it would soon enact the legislation in question, this request was approved.
28.   The Government, however, encountered difficulties in convincing members of
Parliament and the labor unions to accept the Civil Service Act. In September 1990, the
Government informed IDA that it was taking steps to bring the Act to Parliament at its
November meeting of that year. Consequently, it submitted a request for a second extension
of the closing date, from September 30, 1990, to January 31, 1991, which was also
approved. On January 30, 1991, the Government requested a third extension of the closing
date, advising IDA that "pressing social issues prevented the required legislation from being
considered by Parliament". The request was approved to July 31, 1991, in order to allow
the Government time to submit the legislation in March.
29.  In the meantime, in November 1990, Parliament granted a retroactive civil service
salary increase of 5.5%, 7.5%, and 7% for the period FY88/89-90/91, respectively. It had
also increased the minimum wage by 50% one year prior, in November 1989. These actions
directly violated condition xvi of the third tranche (see Ft. 4).
30.   Upon becoming aware of the above violations (March 1991), IDA informed the
Government that corrective measures would have to be considered in order to alleviate the
impact of the wage increases on Dominica's public finances and international
competitiveness. Thus, a fourth extension of the closing date was granted on July 31 for six
weeks (until September 15) with the agreement that the Government would consider the
necessary corrective measures. It was also agreed that if the legislation passed by September
15, a final extension would be granted to allow a third tranche review mission to assess
overall performance under the SAC. By September 15, the Act had passed a first reading by
Parliament, but Parliament members close to the labor union requested more time for the
final reading of the law. Hence, the fifth extension of the closing date was granted to
December 31, 1991. The Civil Service Act was finally passed on November 28, 1991, and
the final sixth extension of the closing date (June 30, 1992) was given to allow time for a
third tranche review.
31.   Immediately following passage of the Act, a third tranche review mission visited
Dominica (December 15-18) to assess compliance with SAC conditionality, as well as the
viability of the adjustment program. Its findings confirmed that six out of eight conditions
were satisfactorily fulfilled. In one area, that of the reduction of the negative list of imports,
progress was not satisfactory. In another area, regarding minimum wages and civil service



I1
pay, the Government had violated third tranche condition, hence necessitating a waiver if the
tranche were to be released absent compliance. The mission also ascertained that while the
program's macroeconomic objectives had been met for the period FY87/88-FY88/89 (paras.
40-43), there was a marked deterioration of public finances by FY90/91 (paras. 44-46). This
was largely due to the lapse in fiscal discipline, in particular, the retroactive civil service pay
increases.'
32.   IDA, thereafter, decided that third tranche release could only be recommended if
specific measures were defined to bring about improvements in fiscal performance, including
a tight schedule for their implementation. Furthermore, additional reductions in the negative
list of imports were necessary. Between 1987 and 1990, the list of items on the negative list
was reduced from 200 to 70.
33.   The period between February and June 1992 saw a flurry of policy dialogue and
activity between IDA and the Government, including two follow-up missions in March (CEM
mission) and June, and meetings in Washington at the occasion of the CGCED. The
Government agreed that the adjustment program had to be put back on track. It gave its
commitment to (i) maintaining minimum wages at their present levels in the current
legislative period; (ii) to limit the civil service pay increase to 0% in FY91/92 and 3% per
annum in FY92/93-93/94; and (iii) to improve overall public finances through revenue
enhancing measures. It agreed to prepare a Policy Statement reaffirming its commitment to
the objectives of the SAC, including the necessary actions to achieve these objectives.
During consultations with the Government, IDA staff made it clear that the additional steps
the Government needed to take were necessary to sustain earlier gains achieved under the
Government's adjustment program and to justify the waiver by IDA's Board of unmet prior
tranche-release conditionality.
34.   By March, the Government had further reduced the negative list of imports to 40
items, thus fulfilling the relevant condition. The remaining items requiring import licenses
were maintained for security and anti-smuggling reasons, infant industry protection or
regional and trade reciprocal agreements. The Government, however, indicated its
commitment to a further review of the negative list.
35.   In its FY92/93 budget, approved by the Cabinet on June 12, 1992, and the subsequent
budget speech, the Government announced measures it would take to raise public savings
from 1% to 3 % of GDP, the minimum necessary to meet its counterpart requirements for the
PSIP. The measures included: (i) increasing the water and electricity tariffs; (ii)
discontinuing tax holidays for the electricity company and other statutory bodies; (iii)
increases in postage fees; (iv) a New Vehicles and Road Traffic Act which would enhance
cost recovery through increases in fees and duties; and (v) upward revisions in registry and
court fees. The first four of these measures were undertaken in July, and the Government
indicated in its Policy Statement (issued July 10) that, should the measures prove insufficient
to meet the targeted savings level, it would take further actions by mid-term budget review.
It also provided that, in the event that the civil service wage negotiations, which had
commenced in July 1992 and were expected to be completed by end of September, exceeded
the Governments targets, the Government would not fill budgeted vacancies in the Central
4/    The impact of the 50% increase in the minimum wage, however, was not significant as the new rate
remained below the going pay of unskilled workers.



12
Government. In addition, extra revenue would be generated through increases in the sales
tax.
36.   At this point, IDA undertook an internal review of the situation and decided that,
while the Government had indeed made significant overall progress in implementing its
structural adjustment program, the justification for the waiver required evidence of
compensating actions that demonstrated an improvement of fiscal balances. IDA believed the
most prudent path would be to allow the Government further time to complete such actions,
which included the conclusion of the ongoing wage negotiations. Hence, an extension of
eight months was proposed to the Government, which would bring the closing date well
beyond the completion of the wage negotiations. This would allow time for the assessment
of the fiscal situation and the undertaking of a mid-term budget review.
37.   The Government, however, decided on August 13, 1992, not to seek a further
extension in view of the long delays already experienced. Thus, the SAC was closed and the
third tranche (SDR 0.74 million) was cancelled. The Government confirmed, however, that
it was still committed to the objectives of the SAC. IDA informed the Government that
further assistance would remain available to assist in the preparation of the Medium Term
Economic Strategy Paper.
D.   Audit
38.   The Credit Agreement required that audit reports be furnished to the Bank within four
months of the close of Dominica's fiscal year (June 30). The first audit report in April 1989
regarding the preceding fiscal year was not acceptable to the Bank. The second audit report
for FY88/89 was due in October 1989, but was not submitted on time. A revised audit
report for the period October 1987 to June 1989, was finally submitted in July 1990. The
final audit report was received in July 1992 for the period July 1989 to November 22, 1991.
V. IMPACT OF THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
A.   Achieving the Economic Objectives
39.  In accessing economic performance during the adjustment program, two distinct
periods can be highlighted. The first extended from the beginning of the program (1986),
included the start of the IMF SAF and the IDA SAC, and continued until the third quarter of
1989. The second period began with Hurricane Hugo (September 1989) until the closing of
the SAC in August 1992.
The Period of Economic Recovery (1986/87-88/89)
40.   This period was characterized by strong economic growth fueled by high banana
prices and production, strengthening public finances, and rapid implementation of adjustment
reform. The recovery began in 1986, as evidenced by the economic indicators (Annex III)
and was maintained until the third quarter of 1989. Real GDP growth averaged 7% during
1986-88, well above the program targets of 4% per annum. Growth was fueled by increases
in all the economic sectors, with considerable booming of construction activity (22% average
real growth during 1987-88), banana-led growth in the agriculture sector (10% average real



13
growth during 1986-88), and recovery of tourism (13% average real growth during 1986-88).
Unemployment fell to about 10% (from about 20% in the early 1980s) due to growth and
continued migration to neighboring islands.
41.  Increased banana production was spurred by favorable exchange rate movements of
the EC$ vis-a-vis the pound sterling. The EC$ depreciated by 27% in real effective terms
between 1985 and 1988 (Graph I). Banana export volumes more than doubled, increasing
from 33,865 metric tons in 1985 to a decade high of 72,284 tons in 1988, while export unit
prices rose from US$393 to US$531 per metric ton (see Graph II).
42.   On the public finances side, strengthening was brought about by strong economic
growth, the decline of capital spending following the completion of major roads projects, and
enhanced economic management. The Government implemented improvements in the tax
system and exercised strict control over current outlays, particularly wage expenditures. As
a result, the Central Government's current account balance moved from a surplus of 1.2% of
GDP in FY85/86 to 5.8% in FY88/89, exceeding program targets of 2-3%. With the
reduction in capital outlays, the Central Government's overall deficit (before grants) was cut
from 16% in FY85/86 to 9% in FY88/89. The use of public sector resources was also
satisfactory during this period as the PSIP was efficiently planned and executed.
43.  In line with fiscal developments and reflecting the growth of banana exports, the
deficit in the current account of the balance of payments fell from a high of 20.9% of GDP
in 1985, to an average of 9% during 1986-88. This performance placed the current account
well below the program target of a 17% of GDP deficit on average for the three years. The
deficit narrowed as a result of the sharp rise in export receipts, notwithstanding the increase
in aid-related imports in response to a rise in official grants and loans. With the increase of
grants and concessional loans, the overall BOP account was in surplus during 1986-87
(averaging 7%), and just in balance in 1988. Dominica's external debt, which is mostly on
concessional terms, increased slightly in 1987 to 51% of GDP from the previous year's 48%,
but fell substantially in 1988 to 44% of GDP. The debt service as a ratio of exports of
goods and services fell to an average of 7.8% during 1986-88, from 10% in 1985, but
remained at an average of 14% of Central Government's current revenues.
The Period of Economic Slowdown (1989/90-1991/92)
44.   Economic growth slowed considerably in the second period of the SAC as Hurricane
Hugo caused widespread damage to banana plants and other plant crops, as well as portions
of the country's infrastructure. Unfavorable reverse movements in the pound sterling/EC$
exchange rate also impacted negatively on growth. Thus, from 1989-91 real GDP grew at a
moderate 2.5% (compared to 7% the previous three years). Banana output increased only
marginally as investment by growers in field maintenance, infrastructure and transport
declined, reflecting uncertainty about the continuation of preferential access to the European
market. Banana export volumes declined from the decade high of 72,300 tons (1988) to
56,700 in 1991 (Graph II). Construction activity declined as a result of the completion of
major public investment projects in electricity, a cruiseship reception facility and a port
expansion project.
45.   Public finances deterio.ated substantially during this period. This was manifested
primarily in the Central Government operations and was caused by developments in both



14
revenue and expenditure. On the revenue side, the decline was due to a lowering of
consumption duties and further reductions of direct tax rates, as well as a fall in external
grants. At the same time, expenditures increased because of the large civil service wage
award and a rise in capital outlays for public projects. The Central Government's current
expenditures, which had declined consistently following adoption of the SAC from 31 % of
GDP (FY85/86) to 25 % (FY89/90), surged in FY90/91 to 29% of GDP. This increase is
almost entirely explained by the large wage award. Thus, the current account balance of the
Central Government declined from the high of 5.8% of GDP in FY88/89 to 0.2% FY90/91.
The overall deficit of the Central Government (before grants) more than doubled from the
FY88/89 level to 20% in FY90/91. In addition, approximately 40% of financing needs in
FY89/90 to FY91/92 were met from domestic sources, in sharp contrast with net repayment
of domestic indebtedness in previous years.
46.   On the external front, the current account deficit increased sharply to 28% of GDP in
1989, reflecting lower exports following Hugo and increased imports of capital goods
associated with a higher public investment program. For the period 1990-91, the deficit
continued to hover around 22% of GDP. The deficit was covered by receipts of official
grants, concessional aid and private capital, including the drawing down of foreign assets by
commercial banks. Starting in 1989, external debt as a proportion of GDP began to rise
again to the 50% level, reflecting concessionary borrowing for public investment. The real
effective exchange rate, which had been depreciating during 1985-90, began to appreciate in
1991 as a result of the pickup in the rate of increase of domestic wages and prices and the
depreciation of the Jamaican dollar (Graph I).'
B.    Instituting Policy Reforms
(i)    Trade Reform
47.   Dominica implemented the SAC conditions relevant to the reform of the trade sector,
albeit with a delay. The delay was in the reduction of items on the negative list. The
liberalization was originally to be completed in less than two years but extended over four
and a half years. Overall, though, Dominica made significant progress in the area of trade
liberalization. The negative list was reduced from over 200 items in 1987 to about 40 items
at present, valued at less than 20% of total imports. The remaining items are included for
security and anti-smuggling reasons, regional and trade reciprocal agreements, or infant
industry protection. All export taxes were eliminated.' Technical assistance was secured to
increase efficiency of the customs administration in the areas of assessment, auditing and
enforcement so as to better control the leakage of duty-free imports into the domestic market.
Even though reform of the CARICOM tariff structure was not part of SAC conditionality, it
was occurring concurrently and the two sets of reforms provided one comprehensive trade
reform effort for Dominica. In this regard, the Common External Tariff (CET) was revised
in February 1991 to 0-45% from 0-70%, and recently the Government agreed to a revised
5/    From mid-1990 until the first quarter of 1993, the currency has appreciated by 12%.
6/    A banana levy, an export tax, was introduced, however, as part of the SAC tax reform package. This tax
is an economically defensible one, in that it appropriates some of the rent accruing to banana producers
from their preferential access to European markets. The disincentive effects of the tax were addressed by
keeping it low and uncollected if the average export price fell below a floor price (paras. 14, 22, 48).



15
CET of 5-20% by 1997. The first phase was introduced September 1, 1993. This would
reduce protection of manufacturing products and services, hence enhancing their efficiency
and competitiveness.
(ii)   Tax Reform and Investment Incentives Framework
48.   In the area of tax reform, the SAC achieved substantial progress in simplifying the tax
regime and reforming direct and indirect taxes. These measures have contributed to making
Dominica's tax regime favorable to the development of private sector activity. The major
reforms that were implemented were: (i) the unification of the consumption tax for imports
and domestically produced goods; (ii) the reduction and unification of the corporate income
tax rate from 35% to 30%; (iii) the revision of capital allowances to broaden the
classification of eligible assets and to simplify the method of calculating depreciation; (iv) tax
exemption for interest income and distributed profits in the form of bonds; (iv) the reduction
of the hotel occupancy tax rate from 10% to 5%; (v) introduction of a 10% investment tax
credit; (vi) a banana levy imposed on banana exports of the Dominica Banana Marketing
Corporation;7 and (vii) reduction in the steep progressivity of the income tax.
49.   To attain more effective promotion and efficient administration of the investment
incentive program, the Industrial Development Corporation and the Tourist Board were
merged, as provided for under the SAC. The resultant entity, the National Development
Corporation, however, has been slow in streamlining the investment application procedure as
intended. It still requires six to eight months for applications to be approved for large firms,
and even longer for small businesses. Prospective investors must contact all the major
ministries and submit up to eighteen documents to various ministries and agencies.
(iii) Wages. Employment Policies and Institutional Improvements in the Public Sector
50.   Reform measures addressing wage and employment policies were not sustainable in
the medium term. The granting of the large civil service award weakened considerably
Dominica's public finances in 1990-92, eroding some of the economic gains achieved during
the first two years of the adjustment program. The wage increases were granted in reaction
to good fiscal and economic performance (1986-88). In addition, facing an upcoming
election in May 1990, the Government came under political pressure.'
51.   The current round of wage negotiations (FY91/92-FY93/94) began in July 1992 and
are still ongoing. The recently passed Civil Service Act (November 1991) was intended to
bring discipline to the process by taking the wage dispute to the Board of Arbitration after
three months. The Act is not effective yet as neither party has invoked it. The Government
has proposed no wage increases in FY91/92, a 3% increase in FY92/93, and beyond that
year to depend on the outcome of the job regrading exercise (para. 53).
7/    The levy is imposed at the following rates: EC$0.01 per pound on export prices exceeding EC$0.51 per
pound but less than EC$0.55 per pound; and 25% of the price in excess of EC$O.55 per pound.
8/    While the 21 % increase in civil service pay was granted in November 1990, the Government had, in fact,
reached an agreement with the Unions in November 1989.



16
52.   The process of formulating and monitoring the PSIP was enhanced but needs further
strengthening. The administration of the three-year rolling PSIP is now undertaken by the
Economic Development Unit (EDU), under the aegis of the Office of the Prime Minister.
The EDU was strengthened with technical assistance, and procedures for program
formulation and coordination within the Government were adopted. Implementation planning
was introduced and training provided to ministry staff. However, in practice, the PSIP
remains, by and large, the aggregation of capital estimates made by the various ministries.
The practice of linking the PSIP to sectoral priorities and budgetary considerations has not
been institutionalized.
53.   A second aspect of institutional reform under the SAC was the Organization and
Management (O&M) exercise the Government designed to raise civil service productivity and
to examine manpower requirements of the civil service. Jobs have been analyzed and
regraded9, records have been centralized and computerized, and a system of performance
appraisals has been introduced. While the above progress was sufficient for SAC
compliance, the recommendations of the exercise are yet to be implemented. Implementation
is tied to current wage negotiations as the Government sought to strengthen its negotiating
position by linking wage increases to the regrading of jobs in one package.
(iv)   Agriculture
54.   The Government adopted a strategy for upgrading the skills of the extension service
staff, as stipulated under the SAC. Subsequently, the staff underwent substantial training that
resulted in skill improvements. The training was directly linked to the work program of the
Ministry of Agriculture and was carried out with technical assistance from the USAID and
the Government of France.
C. Social Impact of Adjustment
55.   There is little information on poverty indicators for the period of the adjustment
program. It is the case, however, that during 1986-90, the average yearly wage award was
6.2% in the Government sector and 5.8% in the private sector (with inflation averaging
3.4% per annum). Most unionized unskilled workers are paid well above the minimum wage
(set at EC$17 a day, equivalent to US$7). Unemployment dropped during 1986-90 from
approximately 15% to 10%. Furthermore, Dominica has in place an adequate social safety
net with privately managed social security system and targeted cash transfers to the most
vulnerable groups. These factors indicate that any negative social cost of the adjustment
process may have been limited.
VI. ASSESSMENT AND CONCLUSIONS
56.   Overall, the design of the SAC was appropriate, targeting the main issues of
competitiveness, strengthening of public finances and public sector institution building.
While several components of the SAC could have been more fully addressed, such as the
investment incentives and agricultural development, it was also prudent not to overtax the
9/    The old system of over 100 pay scales was converted to only 14 pay scales for middle and lower
management.



17
implementation capacity of the Government. The SAC correctly pointed out the following
potential risks: the country's susceptibility to periodic natural disasters; the uncertainty of the
response from the small and relatively weak private sector; and the uncertainty of export
markets.
57.   With regards to the design of the conditions, it adequately covered all areas of the
SAC. The conditions were equally spread over the tranche periods, with almost every
condition for second tranche continuing into the third tranche. This has, in principal, the
advantage of maintaining reforms over the entire period of the program, compared to front
loading. However, almost all third tranche conditions were drafted as "the borrower shall
have... made progress, satisfactory to the Association." While this allowed flexibility for
both IDA and the Government, it kept the door open for varying interpretations. This was
manifested in the discussions over the reductions of the items on the negative list. The
Government felt IDA had not clarified what level of liberalization would be considered
satisfactory from the outset, hence, possibly contributing to the Government's decision to
cancel the third tranche.
58.   Since almost all conditions were complied with, and the design of the SAC was
overall appropriate, why does Dominica today face many of the same economic challenges as
at the outset of its adjustment program?
59.   The following factors can be cited as having detracted from the impact of the
adjustment measures. First, while Dominica indeed fulfilled almost all the conditions, it is
particularly the violated condition (wage policy) that was the most basic to the success and
viability of the SAC (paras. 16, 31, 45). Both the strengthening of public finances and the
economy's competitiveness depended upon containing the growth of wages and employment.
The magnitude of the civil service awards in the public sector tends to increase the pressure
for higher awards in other sectors. Thus, with the current wage structure, Dominica has the
second highest civil service pay structure in the OECS, eroding its competitiveness. Second,
a significant number of conditions that have been fulfilled need further deepening. This is
the case with the strengthening of the PSIP process, the streamlining of the wage negotiations
procedures, the O&M exercise designed to raise the efficiency of the civil service, and the
simplification of the investment application process. The length of time required for the
approval of an investment application is considerably longer than several of its neighbors
where investment applications are approved within one month. Third, the continuous delays
in the credit weakened the Government's ability to fully implement the program. With the
original SAP period defined from 1986/87-1988/89, and the IMF SAF ending in 1988/89,
the SAC lost momentum and came to be regarded as a set of individual conditions remaining
to be fulfilled, rather than as a contained program. Furthermore, after elections in May
1990, the Government retained only a one vote majority in Parliament, hence, weakening its
ability to maintain the momentum of the reform effort. Fourth, the "stretching out" of some
of the reforms, such as the trade liberalization measures, from two years to over four and a
half years, reduced their potential impact. Fifth, the persistence of attractive prices for
banana exports, particularly in the period up to 1990, led to increased concentration of
banana production, even though the SAC sought to stimulate economic diversification.
Finally, Hurricane Hugo in 1989 was a setback to the economy.
60.   Reforms are still needed in Dominica today and many of the SAC adjustment
measures remain highly relevant. The economy is facing disruption in its banana production



18
and exports as a consequence of the diminution of the EEC's preferential banana
arrangements, as well as reductions in concessional aid flows. The policy agenda, as
identified in the Medium Term Economic Strategy Paper currently under preparation,
includes: (i) improving fiscal balances and management; (ii) eliminating barriers to private
sector development; (iii) improving the country's international competitiveness; (iv) economic
diversification; and (v) further strengthening of the PSIP process and the administrative
capacity to implement reform policies and programs.



19
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
PART El. PROGRAM REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE'
1.    Dominica's structural adjustment program had as its principal objectives the
achievement of a substantiable rate of economic growth, reduced unemployment and
improvements in the standard of living of its population. The strategy adopted was to
strengthen the fiscal and balance of payments position by reform in taxation, trade, public
sector wage and employment policy, institutional reforms, reorganization of the main
subsectors in agriculture and a strengthening of the PSIP.
2.    The program was supported by the IMF (SAF), USAID, CDB and IDA (SAC).
Various donors and financial institutions contributed substantially to the PSIP for the
expansion and improvement of economic infrastructure and services.
3.    The SAC was designed to improve the regulatory and incentive framework for trade
and investment, to improve efficiency and competitiveness in agriculture, to strengthen the
public sector investment program and to strengthen the fiscal and balance of payments
position.
4.    All the macro-economic targets were achieved during the program period:
(i)   growth in domestic savings (including public sector savings)
(ii)  reduction in the current account deficit of the balance of payments
(iii)  reduction in the rate of inflation
(iv)   stabilization in real effective exchange rate
(v)   GDP growth at more than 4 %.
5.    Institutional strengthening in the main export sectors was completed satisfactorily and
the proportion of civil service wages to revenue and recurrent expenditure was held to the
planned target.
6.    The design of the SAC was appropriate to the circumstances prevailing at the time
and the implementation capacity of the administration. The principal concerns were to
stimulate growth in domestic savings, improve economic infrastructure, improve the
regulatory and incentive framework for investment and strengthen facilitating institutions.
7.    During the period of the SAC the results were spectacular:
(i)   domestic savings increased substantially;
(ii)   exports increased as a result of expansion of banana production
1/    The following was received on June 7, 1993 from the Government of Dominica. It is included in unedited
form.



20
(iii)  unemployment declined;
(iv)   public services and amenities were expanded and improved;
(v)   GDP growth targets were reached.
8.    However, this performance was not sustainable due to a low response in private
productive investment. While investment did achieve moderate growth, the expected
supportive growth in foreigii private investment did not materialize. As a result:
(i)   domestic savings were diverted to consumption and mortgage financing; and
(ii)  there was a mismatch between public and private investment both in size and
direction.
9.    Failure of private investment to respond to public policy and investment has resulted
in the increasing debt/GDP ratio and incapacity to generate sufficient revenue for debt
servicing.
10.   The weak private investment response has been attributed to:
(i)   inadequate supportive infrastructure in air transportation (close to a 90% of
foreign investment enquiries do not materialize because of inadequate airport
facilities);
(ii)  the undeveloped state of the domestic private sector and private sector
institutions (including credit institutions); and
(iii)  the insufficiency of skills, entrepreneurship and research facilities.
11.  In retrospect, the effectiveness of the SAC could have been enhanced by a follow-up
program that addressed specific sector issues in the two main sectors -- agriculture and agro-
processing -- to identify more clearly the constraints to expansion and specific investment
opportunities. Unfortunately, this was not addressed because of the protracted delay in
concluding the third tranche arrangements. It is clear, however, that while the program
helped to stabilize the economy, the package of policies and investments was insufficient for
sustainable growth and that there was need to analyze and develop sector issues and to
strengthen private sector capacity for expansion in investments.
12.   In reviewing the implementation of the program, a number of issues need to be
reexamined:
(i) Public Sector Wage and Employment.
13.   The Civil Service Act was intended to strengthen the regulatory framework for
institutional reform and to simplify the wage negotiations procedure. In the democratic
tradition within which such matters are dealt with in Dominica, this required extensive
consultations with worker representatives and other publics to obtain consensus, since the
reform proposed would have imposed restrictions on an otherwise liberal industrial relations
system. It must be recognized that in micro economies such as that of Dominica, the
exercise of union power can be disruptive and very costly. For this reason the process of
consultation had to be carefully designed and followed. Even after the Act was passed in
Parliament, it is still necessary to continue the process of education and suasion to have the
guidelines in the Act adopted. The effectiveness of the Act, itself, will be realized in the
long term as both management and worker come to terms with the new responsibilities
implied in its provision. Attempts to legislate wages have not proved to be successful in the



21
experience of countries of the region. While the Act may not have accomplished its
principal objective in the short term, the concessions already gained are the first step towards
an understanding and acceptance of a national incomes policy.
(ii)   Minimum Wages.
14.   At the time Government agreed not to increase minimum wages, the prevailing
market rates were considerably above the legislated minimum rates since the law establishing
minimum wage rates had not been revised for nearly two decades. The revision of the Act
to recognize the minimum rates at the time of the agreement did not in fact increase the
market rates obtaining at the time. This remained a point of dispute although the de facto
position was amply demonstrated.
(iii)  Progressive Conditionalities.
15.   One area of dispute was the progressive conditionalities imposed long after the stated
period of the program. This was particularly evident in the case of trade liberalization where
Dominica's performance in reducing quantitative restrictions had gone beyond its
commitments during negotiations of the SAC. Yet two years after the terminal date of the
program, additional requirements were being imposed before the release of the final tranche.



22
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMVINCA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
PART HI. BASIC DATA SHEET
CREDIT POSITION
(Amounts in SDR Million)
As of June 30. 1993
Credit      Original     Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid  Outstanding
1817-DOM   2.4           1.66         0.74        0.0      1.66
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBUIRSEMENTS
FY87        EY8          PY8
Appraisal Estimate (SDR m)     0.80         0.80         0.80
Actual (SDR m)                 0.80         0.67         0.19
Actual as % of Appraisal        100%        83%          24%
Date of Final Disbursement:    September 1, 1989
PROGRAM DATES
Original    Actu
Initiating Memorandum                       12/12/86     12/12/86
Letter of Development Policy                4/20/87      4/20/87
Negotiations                                4/87         4/20/87
Board Approval                              5/87         6/9/87
Signing                                     5/87         6/18/87
Effectiveness                               7/87         9/10/87
Credit Closing                              12/31/89     6/30/92



23                                   Annex I
DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CRREDIT 1817-DOM)
CHRONOLOGY
1986
May 7-June 2       PSIP review, SAC Preparation Mission
November 4         Policy Framework Paper, FY86/87-88/89
November 25        Public Sector Investment Program Review
November 26        IMF Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)
December 12        Initiating Memorandum
1987
January 5-16       SAC Appraisal Mission
April 13           Loan Committee Meeting
April 20-24        SAC Negotiations
June 9             Board Presentation and Approval
June 18            SAC Agreement
September 3        Second Year Policy Framework Paper, FY87/88-89/90
September 10       Effectiveness and First Tranche Disbursement
1988
March              Originally Expected Second Tranche Disbursement
March 28-April 1   Second Tranche Review Mission
May 6              Postponement of Second Tranche Release
August 8           Third Year Policy Framework Paper
September 28       Credit Amendment (moved second tranche Condition xi on wage negotiations to third
tranche)
October 12         Second Tranche Release
1989
September          Hurricane Hugo hits Island
November           Minimum wage increase by 50%, violating SAC Condition xvi
November 25        IMF SAF closed (undrawn balance: none)
December 31        First postponement of closing date to September 30, 1990
1990
September 30       Second Postponement of Closing Date to January 31, 1991
November           Retroactive Civil Service Salary increase of 21 % for FY88/89-90/91, violating SAC
Condition xvi
1991
January 31         Third Postponement of Closing Date to July 31, 1991
July 31            Fourth Postponement of Closing Date to September 15, 1991
September 15       Fifth Postponement of Closing Date to December 31, 1991
September 23       Economic Mission
November 28        Civil Service Act passed
December 15-18    Third Tranche Review Mission
December 31        Sixth Postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1992
1992
March              CEM Mission
June 29-30         Third Tranche Review Mission II
June 30            SAC Closing Date
July 10            Government Policy Statement
August 13          Third Tranche cancelled



DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
CONDfITONALITY-COMPLIANCE MATRIX
Poficy Area/sses                                         tiom  Take  Prior to Effectiveness                            CondiWmons of Tranche RelCo.ac
1 Trade Tax & Investment Policies
1. 2nd Tranche - preparationof a macroeconomic          1. 2nd Trache - Satisfactorily met.
I  Review of the competitiveneas of the economy                                                                       development strategy and implementation plan,            Competivener Review accepted a fulfilling
as past of preparation of Government's                                                                             aatisfactory to IDA, including macroeconomic            condition.
macroeconomic developmet straegy and                                                                              analysis, sectoras analysis and comnpetitiveness         3rd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
implementationplan.                                                                                                review. (condition i)
3rd Tranche - stisfactory progress in carrying
out the implementation plan refemred to above.
(condition xiii)
2. Removal of export taxes and stamp duty on
2. Removal of export taxes,                                  export sales.
3. Removal of 71 itm  from negative list,               3. 2nd Tranche - Goverrnent agrees with IDA on           3. 2nd Trsache - Satisfactonly met. Agreed upon
3. Phased implementation of m agreed program                  replacing QRs with tariffs                               n ction plan for reducing the remainder of              climination of licensing requirements from
for eliminating QRs nd replacing them with                                                                        the negative list. (condition ii)                        about 100 items from tbe onginal list of 200
tariffs.                                                                                                           3rd Tranche - Government implements agreed              import item.
plan. (condition xiv)                                   3rd Tranche - Satisfactorily met. Negative list
reduced to 40 items, valued at less than 20%
of imports.
4. Completion of tax study; agreement that              4. Effectivcness - study recommendations                 4. Effectiveness - Satisfactorily met.
4. Full review of tax system and phased                       ubstantive tax changes will bc made only in             reviewed by IDA. Agreement with IDA on                   2nd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
implemcntation of revenue neutral tax reform,             framework of tax package agreed with IDA.                broad principles of tax reform.                         3rd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
including:                                                                                                        2nd Tranche - Rcform package and
- tax on agrscultural income or wealth;                                                                            implementation schedule agreed with IDA.
more uniform consumption tax.                                                                                    (condition iv)
3rd Tranchc - rNtisfactory iniplementationof
tax rcform. (condition xv)
5. Reform of customs administration
5. Rcform of customs administration.
Oq t
6. Simplification of investment application               6. Full implementaion of implified procedures                                                                                                         o   -
procedures.                                               for investment application review.



DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
CONDITIONALITY-COMPLIANCE MATRIX
Policy Area/lssues                                  Actions Taken Prior to EffItiveness                           Conditions of Tranche ReleaseComdian
H. Agricultural Sector Policies
1. Formulation and implementationof a strategy                                                                1. 2nd Tranche - preparation of an action plan for    1. 2nd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
for upgrading the agricultural extension service,                                                            training extension staff. (condition xii)              3rd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
3rd Tranche - satisfactory implementation of
the action plan. (condition xix)
2. Removal of price controls on livestock and
2. Decontrol of agricltural prices.                        poultry products.
m1. Public Sector Investment Protram
1. Agreement with IDA on core PSIP for                1. 2nd Tranche - agreement on core PSIP for            1. 2nd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
I. Formulation of a core PSIP for 1987/88 and              1987/88                                               1988/89. (condition iii)                                                                   t
1988/89.                                                                                                     3rd Tranche- none.
2. Agreenent with IDA on programs for merged          2. 2nd Tranche - complete IDC merger;                  2. 2nd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
2. IDC merger; formulation of a core expenditure           IDC  nd Tourist Board for 1987/88.                    agreement on expenditure program for mergnd
program (recurrent and capital) for tourism and                                                              IDC for 1988/89. (conditions v and vi)
manufacturing promotion for 1987/88 and                                                                       3rd Tranche - none.
1988/89.
3. Agreement with IDA on phased program for           3. 2nd Tranche - satisfatory implementaion of          3. 2nd Tranche - Implemented. Need further
3. Implementation of a phased program of                   trengthening PSIP formulation and                     phased program. (condition vii)                       strengthening.
institutional srengthening o as to formulae,           monitoring.                                            3rd Tranwhe - stlisfactory implementationof           3rd Tranche - Implemented. Need further
analyze and monitor a 3-year rolling PSIP,                                                                    phased program. (condition xvii)                      strengthening.
conduct policy level reviews, nd integrate
PSIP process with capital budgting process.
N >
0'   Z
Oq z
(D  rM
O    H
1-t



DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 1817-DOM)
CONDrrIONALITY-COMPLIANCE MATRIX
Polky Area/Issues                                     Acs Taken Puior to Effertiv ness                                 Conditions of Tranche Release                                Comliance
IV. Public Sector Wrecs & Enwloymrnt
1. Adoption of policy that the three-yac wage           1. 2nd Tranche - maintain freezc on minimum             I  2nd Tranche - Satisfactorily met.
I. Design and implemcat.tionof an appropriatc                contract 1988/89-1990/91 limits wage bill                wage and targecd ratios for civil service                3rd Tranche - Non-compliance. Minimum
wagc policy in the public sector aimod at                increaes to 3 % per year; that therc is no                salaries. (conditions ix and x)                         wge increased by 50% in November 19S9. A
roducing real wage increases and improving               increasc in the minimum wage during the                   3rd Tranche - introduce agreed wage policy              retroactivc21%  civil service wage increase for
compelitiveness,                                         program pcriod; and tbat the ratio of civil              and maintain freezc on minimum -age and                  three ycar pcriod (1988/89-1990-91) granted in
servicc salarics is targeted to: (a) recurrent           targeted ratios for civil service salaries.             November 1990
revenues to decline from 53 % in 1985/86 to             (conditions xvi snd xviii)
50% in 1988/89; and (b) recurrent
expceditures to rcmain constant at 56% in
1987/88 and 1988/89.
2. 2nd Tranche - Tske stcps to simplify and             2. 2nd Tranebe - Credit Amendment moved
2. Development of procedures for institutional                                                                        improve the procedurcs for wage negotiations             condition to 3rd Tranche to allow Governmcnt
wage ngotiation throughout public sector,                                                                          in the public sector. (condition xi)                    additional time in passing legislation.
3rd Tranche- 2nd Tranche condition moved                3rd Tranche - Implementod. Civil Scrvice Act
here,                                                   passed November 1991. Mcasure needs 
furthcr strengthening s Act not invokod yet. 
3. 2nd Tnnche - compiltion of OkM  Phase ml.            3  2nd Tranche - Implemented. Recommendations
3. Organization nd Methods exericne to increase                                                                       (condition viii)                                        to bc introduced in FY93/94; tied to ongoing
productivity in the civil service and examine                                                                      3rd Tranche - nonc                                      wage negotiation.
manpower requiremcnts.
rD m
hO 



DOMINICA - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 181 7-DOMi
Key Macroeconomic Indicators as Projected In President.s Report and Actuals
Projected in President's Report                                 Actual
1986      1987       1988       1989       1990           1986       1987       1988      1989       1990       1991
GDP Growth Rate                                    4.0        3.5        3.5        3.5       4.0            7.1        6.8        8.0       -1.2        6.4       2.2
Debt Service tUSSmi a/                             4.7        5.4       6.6        6.4        5.9            4.6        5.4        6.6        6.6        5.7       5.6
Debt Sorvice/XGS                                  10.4       10.8      12.0       10.4        8.7            7.5        7.8        8.0        9.0        5.9       5.6
Debt Ssrvice/GDP                                   4.6        5.0       5.7        5.2        4.5            4.1        4.3        4.5        4.2        3.4       3.1
Gross InvesmentlGDP                               29.4       27.7      28.4        28.0      28.0           22.3       23.4       30.7       40.4       40.8      40.3
Domeetic Savings/GDP                               6.9        6.2        8.0        9.4      11.0           14.7       11.8       15.2        7.8       12.6      17.9
National Savings/GDP                              10.6        9.9       11.5       12.7      13.9           14.0       15.5       19.8       12.5       17.1      20.4
Central Government Total Revenu_a/GDP b/          31.8       31.7      31.4       31.2       31.0           30.7       32.3       32.5       29.1       29.4      29.2
Central Government Total Expenditur"/GDP b/       45.6       42.7      43.0       43.0       43,0           41.2       40.5       41.6       43.4       49.2      35.2
Central Government Current AccountVGDP b/          1.4        1.9        2.2        2.8       2.9            2.3        4.0        5.8        3.6        0.2        1.5
Exports ot Goods and NFS/GDP                      44.5       46.0      47.6       49.4       51.0           52.9       52.8       53.2      44.8       55.6       53.1
Imports of Goods and NFS/GDP                      67.0       67.5      68.0       68.0       68.0           60.5       64.4       68.7       77.4       83.8      75.6
Current Account Balance (US$m)                   -19.2      -19.4     -19.6      -18.9      -18.7           -9.3       -9.9      -15.8      -43.6      -39.6     -36.2
Current Account Balance/GDP                      -18.8      -17.8     -16.9       -15.3     -14.1           -8.3       -7.9      -10.9      -27.8      -23.7     -19.9
a/ Medium and Long-Term Debt, including IMF.
b/ Fiscal year July 1 - June 30
Sources: SAC President's Report, [ORD World Tables,
Dominica Central Stetistics Oftice, IMF.
x



