CREDIT NUMBER 1817 DOM
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 / Y           , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1817 DOM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             / A,                    , 1987,
between dhe COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA (the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
April 20, 1987 from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution; and
(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in three tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to


﻿-2-
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c) "Tranche" means a portion of the Credit not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 800,0001 to be made available by the
Association to the Borrower on the Effective Date for the first
Tranche and upon the adoption of the actions described in Schedule
3 to this Agreement for the second and third tranches; and
(d) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year Khich
begins on July 1 and ends on June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,400,000).2
1/ $1 million equivalent
2/ $3,000,000 equivalent.


﻿- 3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in the National
Commercial Bank of Dominica on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made iii accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The  Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1997, and ending
January 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 2007 shall be one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) Not later than 15 days prior to each such exchange of
views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(c) The first such exchange of views shall take place not
later than March 31, 1988, or such other date as the Borrower and
the Association may otherwise agree.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods zo be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)     retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)     enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; end
(iv)     ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) that an event has occurred which shall make it
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will
be carried out; and
(b) that the Borrower shall have failed to perform any obli-
gation, including any obligation to make payment of principal or
interest or any other payment due, under a contract with a third


﻿-6-
party that has assigned to the Bank or the Association, with the
Borrower's acquiescence, such party's rights vis-a-vis the
Borrower in the contract in question.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 30 days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to
the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have agreed
with the Association on the broad principles of the Borrower's tax
reform proposal.
Section 5.02. The date                 "7 K-  /9S Tis hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance and planning is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Government Headquarters
Roseau
Dominica
Cable address:                      Telex:
EXTERNAL                         8613 EXT DO
Dominica
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
COMMONWEALTH OF DOMINICA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subjedt to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable r-st of goods
required during the execution of the Program and I 'Ie financed
out of such proceeds
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Grop    Sub-group                Description of Items
112                              Alcoholic beverages
121                              Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122                              Tobacco, manufactured
667                              Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
688                              Uranium depleted in U235
and thorium, and their
alloys, unwrought or
wrought, and articles
therefor, n.e.s.; waste
and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of
thorium


﻿- 10 -
Group    Sub-group                 Description of Items
718        718.7                  Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, n.e.s.
897        897.3                  Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)
-        971.0                  Cold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower, excluding, if
the currency of the Borrower is also that of another country,
expenditures in such currency for goods supplied from the
territory of such other country;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $2,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of: (a) SDR 800,000,3      unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
3/ $1 million equivalent.


﻿- 11 -
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (i) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and
(ii) that the actions related to the release of the second Tranche
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken; and (b)
SDR 1,600,000,   unless the Association shall be satisfied, after
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (ii) that the actions related to
the release of the third Tranche described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after any of the exchange of views referred to in 3
above, the Association is not so satisfied and this situation
shall not be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days after notice
thereof by the Association, then the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Credit then unwithdrawn
from the Credit Account or any part thereof.
4/ $2 million equivalent.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, contracts for the
procurement of goods (other than petroleum and petroleum products)
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections T and
II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines),
subject to the following modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
-following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one news-
paper of general circulation in the Borrower's country and,
in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 13 -
2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods (other than petroleum
and petroleum products) or groups of goods estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded: (i) in the case of imports by the public
sector, on' the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion; and (ii) in the case of imports by the private sector, on
the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the purchaser of
such goods.
3.   Contracts for petroleum and petroleum products shall be
awarded either through bilateral arrangements based on prevailing
market prices of such commodity or products, or on the spot
market, through direct negotiations in accordance with normal
practices.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
thereof, such documentation and information as the Association may
reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in respect
of such contract.
6.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 4 and 5 of this
Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special Account, the copies of such contract
or the documentation and the information to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 or paragraph
5 of this Schedule, as the case may be, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (a) (ii)
and (b) (ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The Borrower shall have:
(a) with relation to the release of the second Tranche:
(i) prepared and furnished to the Association a macro-
economic development strategy and implementation
plan, satisfactory to the Association, including,
inter alia, macroeconomic analysis, sectoral
analysis, and a review of the competitiveness of
the economy;
(ii) carried out a review of the Borrower's negative
list of imports and, on the basis of the results of
such review, shall have agreed with the Association
on a plan of action for the reduction of such
negative list of imports;
(iii) prepared and furnished to the Association a core
public sector investment program, satisfactory to
the Association, for fiscal year 1989;
(iv) agreed with the Association on the Borrower's tax
reform proposal, including a timetable therefor;
(v) completed, in a manner satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, the consolidation of the functions of the
Industrial Development Corporation and the Tourist
Board of the Borrower;
(vi) adopted a capital and operational expenditures
program for fiscal year 1989, satisfactory to the
Association, for the new entity resulting from the
consolidation referred to in paragraph (v) above;
(vii) made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in
the implementation of the Borrower's system for
strengthening the formulation and monitoring of
public sector investment programs;
(viii) completed the third phase of the Organization and
Methods survey currently being carried out by the
Borrower for the restructuring of its civil


﻿- 15 -
service, in a manner satisfactory to the Associa-
tion;
(ix) prepared and furnished to the Association a plan of
action, satisfactory to the Association, for
achieving the following targets: (A) that in fiscal
year 1989 civil service salaries will not exceed
50% of total recurrent revenues (calculated without
taking into account the impact of the tax reform
referred to in (iv) above); and (B) that in fiscal
years 1988 and 1989 civil service salaries will not
exceed 56% of total recurrent expenditures;
(x) maintained minimum wages at levels established by
the Borrower in Statutory Rules and Order No. 4 of
1980;
(xi) taken steps to simplify and improve, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association, the procedures for
wage negotiations in the public sector;
(xii) furnished to the Association a plan of action,
satisfactory to the Association, for implementing
the Borrower's training program for agricultural
extension staff; and
(b) with relation to the release of the third Tranche:
(xiii) made progress in the carrying out of the implemen-
tation plan referred to in paragraph (i) above;
(xiv) made progress, satisfactory to the Association, in
the carrying out of the plan of action referred to
in paragraph (ii) above;
(xv) made progress in the implementation of the
Borrower's tax reform proposal referred to in para-
graph (iv) above;
(xvi) provided evidence, satisfactory to the Association,
that the payments made by the Borrower to the civil
service personnel are limited to an annual increase
of 3% under the wage contract for fiscal years
1989, 1990 and 1991 and that the minimum wages
shall have been maintained at levels established by
the Borrower in Statutory Rules and Order No. 4 of
1980;


﻿- 16 -
(xvii) made progress to the satisfaction of the Associa-
tion in the implementation of the system referred
to in paragraph (vii) above;
(xviii) provided evidence, satisfactory to the Association,
that the targets referred to in (ix) above are
being met; and
(xix) made progress, satisfactu:y to the Association, in
the implementation of the --ogram referred to in
(xii) above.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the execu-
tion of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
(b) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to SDR 400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. Each such deposit shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account in the respective equivalent amounts
as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the
request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this
Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible
expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals can be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2,02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, minus
the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such pro-
cedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.


﻿- 19 -
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account and immediate cancellation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


