             Document of
           The World Bank

       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                   Report No: 72352-GT




       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                ON A

  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                OF

SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT

           LOAN 7169-GU

             MAY 6, 2003


               TO THE

      REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


         SEPTEMBER 14, 2012
                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




BP    Bank Policy

IBRD International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

OP    Operational Policy




               Regional Vice President:       Hasan Tuluy
                     Country Director:        Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
                       Sector Director:       Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                      Sector Manager:         Aurelio Menendez
                    Task Team Leader:         Stephen Muzira

                                          2
                                Extension of Closing Date


           GUATEMALA – SECOND RURAL AND MAIN ROADS PROJECT
                               P055085
                          IBRD LOAN 7169-GU

                                  Restructuring Paper


1.    The closing date for Guatemala, Second Rural and Main Roads Project, Loan No.
7169-GU, P055085 will be extended from September 30, 2012 until September 30, 2013.

2.      The project is significantly advanced with most activities under the project
completed. The main project development impacts to date include: (i) improved access to
social and administrative services in the departments of Huehuetenango and San Marcos
(through improved rural and secondary roads, pedestrian bridges, and periodic
maintenance works); and (ii) strengthened institutions at both the central and local levels
to manage and maintain the road infrastructure (with the formation and support of three
municipal associations, capacity building of road technical units and road maintenance
committees, and technical support to the implementing agencies INFOM and DGC). The
PDO remains achievable.

3.     The main pending activities are: (i) the implementation of the Corrective Action
Plan (to resolve the outstanding resettlement issue), (ii) the completion of consultancy
work on the impact evaluation of the project, and (iii) the completion of the secondary
roads construction in the departments of Huehuetenango and San Marcos.

4.      The proposed extension is necessary to enable the satisfactory conclusion of an
outstanding resettlement issue under the project with the completion of the houses and
other structures reconstruction. The actions to compensate affected persons were agreed
under the Corrective Action Plan (prepared and disclosed on April 26, 2011, with latest
update submitted by the Government dated August 30, 2012). An update of this plan is to
be agreed between the Bank and the Government before the current closing date (before
September 30, 2012), and will be disclosed in-country and under Bank project reporting.
Provision of more time will enable the Government to implement needed actions to
ensure the full compensation of affected persons. These actions include the completion of
the houses and other structures, and effecting compensation to persons affected by
resettlement under the project in accordance with the Bank safeguard policy on
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12).

5.      During the extension, the consultancy work on the impact evaluation will also be
completed. The main project benefits to date (both on the infrastructural and institutional
fronts) are being captured in this ongoing impact evaluation work.



                                            3
6.     Works to complete the construction of the secondary road sections in
Huehuetenango and San Marcos will also continue but will be fully financed with
national counterpart funds due to previous design changes and cost overruns. It is
expected that the works completion will go beyond the period of this extension.

7.    This will be the fifth extension of the Project closing date. The total cumulative
implementation period after this extension will be nine years.




                                           4
