Report No. PID8878
Project Name                     Viet Nam-Poverty Reduction Support Credit...
(formerly SAC II)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Macroeconomic-structural adjustment; Poverty
Reduction policies
Project ID                       VNPE4850
Borrower(s)                      Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Implementing Agency              State Bank of Vietnam
47-49 Ly Thai To, Hanoi, Vietnam
Tel:    84 4 9343361/6
Fax:    84 4 8250612
Contact: Mr. Le Duc Thuy, Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
Environment Category             C
Date PID Revised                 May 18, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 2001
Projected Board Date             May 2001
Background
After growing at an average annual rate of around 8.5 percent between 1992
and 1997 and reducing poverty from 58 to 37 percent in the same period,
Vietnam's real GDP growth fell sharply in 1998 and 1999. The slowdown that
had begun in 1997 -- with the growth effects of earlier reforms tapering off
and new reforms stalling - was accentuated by the severe regional crisis and
recession. Investment fell by nearly 10 percent of GDP, led by a precipitous
drop in foreign direct investment and non-agricultural growth continued to
fall. Private sector, which had grown considerably under "doi moi", even if
from a very low base, was also being squeezed by the recessionary conditions.
Two years of slow growth has taken its toll in terms of rising unemployment
and underemployment, worsening condition of banks and state-enterprises and
eroding revenue collection. Urban unemployment has climbed to 7.4 percent
from 5.9 percent two years ago. The condition of state-owned enterprises had
worsened further; nearly three-fifth of the enterprises were not making any
profit in end-1997 and they accumulated more losses and debt in the last two
years. The health of the banks which had worsened in end-1997 with 20-35 of
loans non-performing, deteriorated further as enterprise profit slumped.
Revenue as a share of GDP fell by nearly 5 percent of GDP after 1996, with
most of the decline occurring in the last two years. Expenditure was reduced
in tandem to ensure that fiscal deficit was kept under control, generating
considerable squeeze on essential expenditures.
However, Vietnam has avoided a fiscal, balance-of-payments and banking crisis
through judicious and prudent macro-economic policy. Structural reforms also
picked up momentum during 1998-2000 period relative to the previous three
years. Implementation of the more liberal Enterprise Law, a bilateral trade
agreement with the US and the recent approval of large foreign investment



projects in the energy sector has improved the mood of investors, both
domestic and foreign.
Continued macroeconomic stability, a pick-up in the pace of reforms,
expansionary fiscal and monetary policies have generated a revival in real
GDP growth to around 5.5 percent and a modest rise in domestic private
investment. This has been supported by strong export growth and rising
domestic demand.
Project Objectives
The proposed PRSC would support the Government's program of reforms aimed at
restoring higher growth and faster poverty reduction in Vietnam. In
particular, the program envisages measures to improve the climate for private
sector, reform state-owned enterprises, restructure banks, liberalize trade
and strengthen public expenditure management, since these are currently the
dominant constraints to faster growth and poverty-reduction in Vietnam. The
objective is to open up the economy to more competition, enhance transparency
and promote efficient investment, especially private investment.
Project Description
The PSRC builds on the recent reforms already taken by the government in
support of Vietnam's current poverty reduction strategy as summarized in the
Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). The PRSC supports the
continued adherence to sound macroeconomic policies and structural reform in
the following areas: banking reform, state-enterprise reform, trade reform,
private sector deregulation and public expenditure management, all aimed at
creating a more favorable environment for the private investment and
improving efficiency. In addition, social safety nets are being
strengthened, especially for those likely to be adversely affected by the
reforms, as well as improving the pro-poor bias of public spending.
Project Financing
The proposed credit amount would be a US$250 million equivalent. The credit
would be disbursed in two tranches, US$ 100 million and US$ 150 million
respectively. The first tranche would be disbursed after Credit
effectiveness and the second, twelve months later, provided the program laid
out in the Policy Matrix is implemented, the second-tranche actions are
completed, and macroeconomic performance is on track..
Project Implementation
The Government plans to establish a high level inter-ministerial committee
for coordinating the implementation of the Program, with the State Bank of
Vietnam responsible for regular monitoring of implementation of the Program.
Sustainability
Vietnam has continued to implement slow but steady reform, while paying
special attention to minimizing the social costs of such reform. It is
firmly committed to integration with the rest of the world and the region and
has already signed trade agreements with AFTA and the US that requires
- 2-



Vietnam to liberalize its trade and investment regime, including its service
sectors, continually over the next 8-9 years. It has also opened up its
domestic private sector last year, prompting a significant response in terms
of 14,000 new private SMEs in 2000, compared to only 3000 new entities a year
over the last three years.    While the pace of future reform could slow down,
Vietnam's Ninth Party Congress in April 2001 confirmed a renewed commitment
to continued reform.
Environmental aspects
In accordance with Bank guidelines, the proposed operation has been placed in
Category C and will not require an environmental assessment.
Poverty Category
The PRSC supports the implementation of Vietnam's current poverty reduction
strategy as summarized in the Government's Interim-Poverty Reduction
Strategy.
Program Objective Categories
The project supports structural reform and public expenditure management.
Contact Points:
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin
Task Manager,   Vietnam Country Office
Telephone: (84-4) 8-432-461/5
Fax:        (84-4) 8-432-471
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed to the InfoShop week ending May 18, 2001.
- 3 -



