Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: P-7446-VN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
OF SDR 197.2 MILLION
(US$250 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
APRIL 23,2001
Poverty Reduction & Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Reference Documents:
*  I-PRSP and Joint IDA-IMF Staff Assessment (IDA/SecM2001-0254), Board date: 4/12/2001.
* CAS Progress Report (IDA/R2000-66[IFC/R2000-76]), Board date: 5/30/2000.
*  CountryAssistance Strategy (IDAIR98-135[IFC/R98-199]), Board date: 9/2211998.
Government Fiscal Year: January I to December 31
Currency Equivalents: Currency unit = dong
US$ = 14550 DONG (April 2001)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB              Asian Development Bank
AFTA             ASEAN Free Trade Area
AMC              Asset Management Company
ASEAN            Association of South East Asian Nations
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
BIDV             Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
BOT              Build-Operate-Transfer
IAS              International Accounting Standards
JBIC            Japanese Bank for International Cooperation
JSB              Joint-Stock Bank
LDP              Letter of Development Policy
LWU              Loan Workout Unit
MPDF             Mekong Delta Development Facility
MOF              Ministry of Finance
MOLISA          Ministry of Labor, Invalids, and Social Affairs
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NPL              Non-Perforning Loans
ODA              Official Development Assistance
PER              Public Expenditure Review
PRGF             Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC             Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QR               Quantitative Restrictions
SBV              State Bank of Vietnam
SDSD             Socioeconomic Development Strategy Document
SME              Small and Medium Enterprise
SOCB             State Owned Commercial Bank
SOE              State Owned Enterprise
VBARD            Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
VAT              Value Added Tax
VCB              Vietnam Commercial Bank
UNDP             United Nation Development Program
USB IA           United States Bilateral Trade Agreement
WTO              World Trade O.ganization
Vice President:             Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Director:           Andrew Steer, EACVF
Sector Director:            Homi Kharas, EASPR
Task Manager:               Kazi M. Matin, EASPR



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:    The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Amount:       SDR 197.2 million (US$ 250 million equivalent)
Terms:        Standard IDA terms: 40-year maturity with a 10 year grace period
Description:  The proposed Credit of SDR 197.2 million (US$ 250 million equivalent) to be
disbursed in two tranches (US$ 100 and US$ 150 million respectively) is a Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) that would build on the recent reforms already
undertaken by the Government and support the implementation of Vietnam's current
poverty reduction strategy as summarized in the I-PRSP. The first PRSC would focus
on structural economic issues because it is these that are currently the primary
constraint on rapid and sustainable poverty reduction. It is envisaged that there will
be two further single-tranche PRSCs (each up to US$150 million equivalent) in FY03
and FY04.
Vietnam's program, supported by the PRSC, would promote faster growth and
poverty reduction by:
* Improving the climate for the private sector, thereby generating jobs and higher
wages: (a) Removing restrictions on private entry in remaining sub-sectors; (b)
moving towards a unified legal framework for all enterprises irrespective of
ownership; and (c) facilitating access to and private transactions in land-use
rights.
* Reforming State enterprises to improve efficiency and free up fiscal resources for
poverty reduction program: (a) Accelerating equitization, liquidation and outright
sale of state owned enterprises (SOEs); (b) amending the legal framework to
improve effectiveness and transparency of equitizations; (c) carrying out
diagnostic audits and implementing restructuring action plans for large wholly
government-owned SOEs; (d) making reliable information on SOE performance
available annually; and (e) expanding social safety nets for SOEs workers
displaced by reform.
* Restructuring the banking system to reduce the risk of financial crisis, which
could otherwise undermine poverty reduction efforts. (a) Improving legal,
regulatory and supervisory framework that will promote prudent banking; (b)
restructuring non-state joint stocks banks (JSBs) and reducing their number; (c)
enhancing transparency and reliability of banking system information; and (d)
restructuring and commercializing the four large state-owned commercial banks
(SOCBs through phased and conditional re-capitalization).
. Integrating with the world economy to expand labor-intensive exports: (a)
Removing quantitative restrictions on all tariff lines of another 6 product groups;
(b) reducing tariffs on ASEAN imports in line with the annual AFTA roadmap;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



(c) expanding private participation in exports by raising the share of gannent
export-quotas that is auctioned and by liberalizing rice exports further.
Improving public expenditure management. (a) Ensuring timely, compreher!sive
and consistent budgetary information; (b) improving controls and checks on mine-
item expenditures during the year; (c) enhancing internal and external
transparency by increasing access of all government agencies to budget outcome
details and publishing more budgetary information, including the posting of
commune budgets; (d) promoting greater equity of public spending among
provinces, especially in social spending; and (e) integrating capital and recurTent
expenditures better.
Benefits:     The proposed credit has four key benefits:
*  It will signal Vietnam's intention to continue and deepen policy and institutional
reform over the medium term.
*  It will increase transparency and accountability in state enterprises, banks, and
public finance.
e  It will promote higher private investment, especially by SMEs and in exports,
thereby creating more employment.
*  It will restore higher growth and reduce poverty.
Risks:           Several risks accompany the reform program under the PRSC:
*  Existing political support for the medium-term reform program could erode either
because implementation of reforms generate resistance from loser or because the
distribution of gains from growth are not distributed sufficiently equitably.
-  Implementation may be slower than planned because of limited experience and
inadequate institutional and human capacity, especially given the need for
simultaneous implementation of reforms in five different areas involving different
ministries and agencies.
*  Slippage on some components of the program may impede progress in other inter-
linked areas, e.g., if SOE reform does not proceed expeditiously in sectors that are
first exposed to ASEAN competition through AFTA liberalization, potentially
viable enterprises may come under financial stress creating new problems for
banks and the budget.
*  The reform costs to the budget could be higher than estimated if banking and SOE
reforms proceed at a slower pace or if new bank credit goes into unviable projects.
Project ID Number: PE-P004850
4



VIETNAM
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS
I. Introduction .....................................................8...8
II. Vietnam's Strategy for Growth and Poverty Reduction                                    .9
A. The Context                                                .9
B. Government's Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy .............................................. 12
1 Structural Economic Policies: The Climate for Enterprise ....................................... 12
2  Pro-Poor Sectoral Policies and Institutions ...................................................... 14
III. Poverty Reduction Program  for Bank Support ..............................................             17
A. Instruments of Bank Support ......................................................                    17
B. Key Elements of the PRSC Program ....................................................... 19
1. Private Sector Reform ......................................................                      20
2. State-Owned Enterprise Refonn .......................................................             21
3.   Banking Reform ......................................................                           24
4.  Trade Reform .......................................................                             26
5. Public Expenditure Management ......................................................              26
C. Social and Fiscal Impact of the Program ........................           .............................. 28
1.  Impact of the Program  on the Poor .......................................................       28
2.  Mitigating Social Costs of Reform ...................             ................................... 31
3. Likely Fiscal Impact of Reforms ..........................................                        35
IV. Bank Group's Strategy and Other Donors                           .................................... 36
A. Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy ..........................................                   36
B. Partnerships with Other Donors and Agencies ...............                 ........................... 37
V. The Poverty Reduction Support Credit                         .................................... 38
A. Credit Preparation ..........................................                                         38
B. Tranches and Conditions .......................................... 40
C. Implementation and Monitoring .......................................... 42
D. Credit Administration .......................................... 43
E. Benefits and Risks ..........................................                                         45
VI. RECOMMENDATION ....................................                                                      46
The World Bank core team for this operation was led by Kazi M. Matin and consisted of: Igor Artemiev, Carmen
Genovese, Duc Pham Minh, Viet Dinh Tuan, Martin Rama, Bob Warner, Thang Long Ton, Anh Phuong Vu
Tran, and Hang Thu Nguyen. Substantive contributions were also made by James Beard, Gabriella Ferencz,
Theo Larsen, Minh Van Nguyen, Nguyen Nguyet Nga, Behdad Nowroozi, Will Martin, Arnold Sowa and Carrie
Turk. John Nellis and Jonathan Fiechter provided suggestions, advice and comments as peer reviewers at various
stages of the development of this program. Guidance, advice and contributions were provided by Andrew Steer,
Homi Kharas, Tamar Manuelyan Atinc, Loup Brefort, Kathie Krumm and Jacques Loubert during the
preparation and finalization of this program. Cooperation of the IMF staff during numerous parallel missions is
gratefully acknowledged.
5



VIETNAM
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
CONTENTS (cont'd)
SCHEDULES
Schedule 1:   Letter of Development Policy
Schedule 2:   Policy Matrix
ANNEXES
Annex 1:      Vietnam at a Glance
Annex 2:      Vietnam - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 3:      Vietnam - Key Exposure Indicators
Annex 4:      Vietnam - Status of Bank Group Operations in Vietnam
Annex 5:      Vietnam - Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Annex 6:      Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 7:      Vietnam's Trade Policy Commitments under AFTA and the USBTA
Annex 8:      Technical Assistance Grant Support to SOE, Banking and Public
Expenditure Reforms
MAP
6



Figures
Figure  1. Growth, Investment and Trade in the 1990's ................................................................ 10
Figure 2. Distribution of New  Registrations across Provinces 2000 ............................................ 30
Boxes
Box  1: Key Findings of "Vietnam: Attacking Poverty" ..................................................................9
Box 2: Vietnam Lags in Structural Policies & Public Sector Management Relative to IDA -
average .................................................................. 18
Box 3: Estimation of Labor Redundancy due to SOE  Reform  ...........................                            ........................ 31
Box 4: The Underlying Analytical Work for Designing the Severance Package ...........                                        ............ 32
Box 5: The Gender Implications of the Reform  Program  ........................................................... 34
Box 6: Fiscal Costs of SOE  and Banking Reform  ..................................................................  35
Box 7: Consensus-Building on Reforms in Vietnam  .................................................................. 39
Tables
Table 1: Key social indicators in Vietnam  and selected countries ......................                         ........................ 14
Table 2. Program  of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) ............................................. 18
Table 3: Key Outcomes Envisaged by End of PRSC  Program  Period .................                                  ........................ 19
Table 4: Coverage of three-year SOE  reform  program  ................................................................ 22
7



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT TO VIETNAM
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    This Memorandum seeks approval from the Board of Executive Directors for a Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) of SDR 197.2 million (US$250 million equivalent) fcr
Vietnam, to provide financing support to the Government's poverty reduction program. This
would be the first of a series of three PRSCs for Vietnam for up to US$450-550 million, over four
years.
2.    This first proposed credit, a two-tranche operation, focuses on structural reform issues
and on public expenditure management, primarily because incomplete structural reforms are the
most important impediment to poverty reduction in Vietnam at this time. Subsequent PRSCs
would be based on a full PRSP, and while we cannot pre-judge the specific measures that will be
supported, it is expected that there will be a need to support continued reform in these areas Es
well as in other key areas of the government's poverty reduction and growth agenda - notably i n
public administration and legal development, rural transformation, and investment in poor people.
In this way, the I-PRSP, this PRSC, the subsequent PRSP, new CAS, and possible additional
PRSCs constitute a series of steps which, provided that a strong program continues to be
implemented, would build upon each other to move towards an explicit set of poverty reduction
outcomes over the next few years.
3.    This PRSC comes at a crucial time for Vietnam  as it seeks to reinvigorate ils
development efforts following the downturn in the past three years. It builds on the overall highly
successful performance of the past decade, when growth averaged over 7 percent per year and
poverty was reduced by half. But it is also built upon a recognition that the slower progress of the
past three years was due to an inadequate policy and institutional framework as well as to the
regional crisis. Over the past three years, while following a cautious economic stance and
successfully avoiding major macroeconomic imbalances, Vietnam has been designing and
building a constituency for an accelerated program of structural reforms. Implementation of these
reforms began in 1999 and will continue at least for the next 3 to 5 years. The proposed PRSC
supports the core elements of this program.
4.     Support for the new round of "doi moi" structural reforms has been a central part of the
Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy, and the proposed series of PRSCs is consistent with
the CAS, which had envisaged a series of three adjustment credits covering a similar agenda. The
proposed series of PRSCs enables IDA to support a prioritized agenda of reform, within the
context of the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy, beginning with the structural elemeni s
that are the largest constraints to long term poverty reduction.
5.    The proposed credit is based on the Government's I-PRSP document, which wEs
completed together with the Government's Ten-Year Socioeconomic Development Strategy
Document (SDSD), the latter in preparation for the Ninth Party Congress in Spring 2001. The -
PRSP has strong national ownership and strong support of donors and non-governmental
organizations that participated in the process of its preparation. As noted in the Joint Sta f
Assessment, it reviews the current poverty situation and the challenges ahead, and outlines two
broad areas of policy and institutional reform: (i) macro and structural policies to raise growth
and create opportunities for the poor; and (ii) sectoral policies and programs.
8



Il. VIETNAM'S STRATEGY FOR GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION
A. THE CONTEXT
6.     The adoption of a program of economic renovation, or "doi moi", in the late 1980s
generated a decade of rapid growth and exceptional poverty reduction in Vietnam. As a result
poverty fell sharply: seven out of ten Vietnamese were living in poverty in 1990 but only half that
number are poor today (see Box 1). Nevertheless, Vietnam remains a poor country, with per
capita income of around $380.
Box 1: Key Findings of "Vietnam: Attacking Poverty"
A joint Government-donor-NGO report on poverty was presented to the Consultative Group meeting in
December 1999. This in turn was a central building block for the l-PRSP,
Changes in poverty profile:
-  The proportion of people witk per capita expenditures under the total poverty line has dropped
dramatically from 58% in 1992/93 to 37/O in 1997/98.
-  The number of people below a "food poverty line" (which has a value that is closer to the poverty line
used by the Government of Vietnam) has also declined from 25% to 15 %.
-  Poverty remains largely a rural phenomenon; 45% of the rural and 10% of urban population are now
below the poverty line, but pockets of severe urban poverty remain. Overall, inequality has risen
slightly (Gini coefficient has risen from 0.33 to 0.35), but is still modest by international standards.
-  Poverty has declined in all seven regions in 5 years, but regional inequality has risen; incomes in
Southeast (the least poor region) grew by 78%. while in the Northern uplands (the poorest region)
grew by 38%. Three regions now account for 70%o of poverty: Northern Uplands, North Central Coast
and Mekong Delta.
- Primary school enrollment rates have increased from 87% to 91% for girls and from 86% to 92% for
boys, lower secondary enrollment rates have doubled for both girls (61%) and boys (62%), and upper
secondary enrollment rates have increased from 6% to 27% for girls and from 8% to 30% for boys.
-  Access to infrastructure, such as public health centers, clean water, and electricity, have all increased.
Sources of Income and Employment:
-  Rural poverty-reduction was driven mainly by diversification of farm activities, with average
household incomes in agriculture growing by 60% in the 5 years to 1997/98.
-  Half of all jobs created in those 5 years were in the services sector with the rest coming from
agriculture and industry; industrial sector output grew rapidly but most jobs came from micro and
household industrial enterprises rather than the state-dominated industrial sector.
Three Broad Imperatives for Attacking Poverty:
The Poverty Report's diagnosis and recommendations were organized around the three-fold agenda of
the World Development Report 2000/2001
-  Opportunities for employment and productivity growth would have to be created, so that incomes rise
and the poor are able to grow out of poverty.
-  Measures must be put in place to ensure that growth and access to services is fair and equitable, so
that all citizens can benefit from the opportunities that are created.
-  Special care must be taken to reduce the vulnerability of the poor to unforeseen events (sickness, loss
of breadwinner, poor harvests, economic crisis, etc.).
7.     During 1992-1997, GDP grew at an average annual rate of around 8.5 percent, and
exports at an annual rate of 25 percent, both faster than the region as a whole. Foreign investment
inflows rose to an average of nearly US$2 billion a year during 1995-97, making inflows as a
share of GDP (around 12 percent) among the highest in the world.
9



Figure 1. Growth, Investment and Tradle in the 1990's
GDP Growth and Investment                      Export Growth and Manuafactures Share
10                              7777-        35     40                                         40
x 6 < |   |   i      t    ;   ::| j444t 0; iMiji iEB 30  0 3l30
i!    Zl                        ~~~~~~~~~25         25               _                20t
0 4~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                      2 
20
-20  E   8                                            10
o                                        15        10
593  594  n9 se9  597 199Ar. 5999/re 2000/.         1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 20000 
_GDP_ro_h_ra.(%) _ _-t-,,t(%o1GDP)                      Share of rranufactures  -Exports
8.      The East Asian Crisis. With the onset of the East Asian crisis, Vietnam's GDP growti
fell to 4 -4.5 percent, and the rate of investment declined from almost 30 percent to around 2.3
percent of GDP, due in large measure to a collapse in foreign investment from the regiorl.
Coupled with the internal loss of momentum as the first round of economic reforms ran ius
course, serious structural weaknesses in production and investment became evident. Three yeais
of lower growth has taken its toll on enterprise profitability and banking system health, as also con
public revenues and employment.
9.      During the regional crisis, the Government deliberately adopted a cautious economic
stance, emphasizing macroeconomic stability rather than growth. As a result, Vietnam avoidei
serious balance of payments, fiscal and/or banking crises that were feared at the outset of the Eat
Asian crisis. At the same time, the Government understood that the momentum of growth had tD
be restored soon if poverty reduction was to continue. Investment and savings needed to be
raised in order to secure employment and wage growth for poverty reduction. It was explicitly
recognized that substantial reform in banking and state-enterprises, in trade policy and in creating
a favorable environment for the private sector's development were needed to do so.
10.    Accordingly, the Government embarked on a mission to develop a better and broad-basec
understanding of the necessity of reforms and to initiate serious preparatory work to design a
medium-term program of specific reforms. The Bank Group supported the Government in
accessing international experience with reform and in undertaking the required analysis. Being
unaccustomed to market-oriented reforms and to articulating a medium-term program of specijic
reforms, it took the Government considerable time to develop technically sound reform-optior s
and then to develop broad consensus in the country around them.' While progress was much
slower than we had initially hoped, in retrospect we need to acknowledge that the building of
knowledge and consensus was probably essential for the successful implementation of tile
agenda, and that -- given Vietnam's starting point -- this could not have occurred quickly.
11.    Resurgence in structural reforms.  The Government now  owns a medium-termn
program of specific reform measures across a number of inter-related areas and has begun to
1Vietnam has done medium-term plans for a long time, but mostly with broad directions of policy and detaild
investment programs: medium-term programs detailing specific reform policies have been rare. Generally, pil )t
reforms of a partial nature are implemented without committing to replicate -- using feedback from those pilots used o
design next steps - though not infrequently those pilots have led to replication or have spawned new reforms n &n
originally planned.
10



demonstrate its commitment to the program through implementation. Over the past two years
measuires have been taken to facilitate international trade, ease private entry and develop domestic
and foreign private enterprises, diversify ownership of state-owned enterprises (SOEs), improve
the framework for prudent banking and increase transparency of the budget. Examples of such
actiorns include:
On Improving the Climate for International Trade and Investment:
* Restrictions on enterprises to trade have been eased (for exporters in mid-I1998, for
importers in early 1999 and for foreign-invested firmns in mid-2000);
* Rice export quotas have been removed, quantitative restrictions on eight groups of
imnports have been eliminated (leaving QRs on I11 groups), and auctions for garment export
quotas have been introduced;
* A US-Vietnam bilateral trade agreement (USBTA) has been signed, laying down a
comprehensive series of actions over the coming seven years, and marking an important step
on the path to WTO accession.
On Improving the Climate for Private Investment:
* A new Enterprise Law and the removal of business licensing in 145 sub-sectors made
registration of private firms much easier. The revised Foreign Investment Law and its
implementing regulations has permitted automatic entry of export oriented foreign
investments and the issuance of Government-guarantees for large infrastructure investments;
a Private transactions in land-use-rights were facilitated through changes in the legal
framework. Revisions to the Land Law and the issuance of Securities regulations allowed
land-use rights to be sold, to be contributed as equity in joint ventures and used as collateral
for loans by Vietnamese entities. Banks operating in Vietnam are now permitted to mortgage
such land-use rights;
* Private participation in energy has been approved in respect of three major foreign
investment deals, including the recently signed Nam Con Son gas pipeline (US$1.4 billion)
and two build-operate-transfer (BOT) power generation projects (US$850 million).
On Reforming the State Enterprise and Banking Sectors:
* Nearly 450 SOEs have been "equitized" since 1998 (compared to 17 in previous three
years), with over 250 of them selling more than 65 percent shares to non-state shareholders
with the State retaining no dominant or special shares;
* Prudential regulations were adopted and the restructuring of non-state JSBs was initiated.
TFhree JSBs were closed (with their licenses revoked) and two merged, and another thirteen
placed under the "special control regime" of the State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Regulations
on capital adequacy, related-party lending, foreign exchange operations, bank inspection,
collaterals and deposit insurance were adopted.
I1I



On Public Expenditure Management and Transparency:
* The State budget (outturn for last year and budget for next year) was published for t1 e
first time in mid-1999, and a participatory Public Expenditure Review was completed jointly
by the Government and donor partners in 2000.
12.    The Recent Economic Recovery. Partly in response to these measures the past year hL.s
witnessed some recovery, with investment, savings and exports all rising significantly. Of spechil
note has been the increased activity of the domestic private sector, with 18,000 new SME s
registering in the fifteen months since the new Enterprise Law came into force (in comparison lo
a stock of just 25,000 enterprises registered country-wide at the beginning of 2000). The recoveiy
in 2000 was also led by strong agricultural and export performance. Real GDP grew by 5.5
percent in 2000 relative to an average of 4.2 percent in the previous two years. Non-oil expors
grew by around 16 percent, but foreign investment inflows remained depressed. Inflation fell lo
near zero by end-1999 and is around -I percent in 2000, reflecting falling food prices, driven by
two years of bumper harvests.
B. GOVERNMENT'S GROWTH AND POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
13.    The Government of Vietnam remains firmly committed to achieving rapid reductions in
poverty. Its growth and poverty reduction strategy, as articulated in the I-PRSP and the SDSD,
highlights the importance of restoring high and sustainable growth to generate more opportunities
for employment and to reduce poverty. It was high growth - equitably spread - that enabled the
exceptional achievements in reducing poverty in the 1990s. Government strategy documents fc r
the coming years thus give strong recognition to the need for not only high rates of growth but
also to the need for high quality of growth. There is also a recognition that the extent to which
growth will result in poverty reduction depends on issues relating to the asset base of the poor anw
their access to services of the poor.2
14.    For these reasons the I-PRSP divides the agenda of policies and measures for povert)-
reduction into two broad categories - (i) structural economic policies to raise growth and create
opportunities for the poor; and (ii) sectoral, targeted and public administration policies, designei
around the three-fold themes of "opportunity", "equity" and "security". This section briefly
reviews the Government's goals and policies in each of these areas, giving relatively less
coverage to the structural economic policies, which are covered more fully in section III dealing
with the proposed PRSC. Section III. C also addresses the analytical links between Vietnam's
structural economic policies and poverty reduction.
1. Structural Economic Policies: The Climate for Enterprise
15.    Policies for Private Investment. The Government has emphasized its intention of making
Vietnam a truly mixed economy, with equal treatment of private, foreign, and state enterprises.
Today, around half of GDP is generated by the private sector and half by the public sector.
However, in view of the financial status of the SOE sector it is clear that the private sector - both
domestic and foreign - will need to play a larger role in investment and employment generatior.
2 In the 1990s "doi moi" reforms generated high growth which in turn was accompanied by exceptional reductions in
poverty. This was in part because access to land and access to education and health services were relatively equitably
distributed across the population, except for some provinces and the ethnic minorities. Public spending on physica.l
infrastructure, which expanded rapidly during the 1990s, improved people's access to infrastructure services too,
though poorer provinces and remote areas remain inadequately served.
12



World Bank estimates suggest that if Vietnam is to attain its aggregate growth and employment
goals over the coming decade, domestic private investment will need to rise from its average level
of 7 percent of GDP in the 1990s to around 12 percent in the coming decade. The introduction of
the Enterprise Law in 2000 -- coupled with the remarkable domestic private sector response --
marked an important milestone for Vietnam in moving towards a more level playing field. The
planned reforms in the banking and SOE sectors, coupled with the proposed SME and land
legislation, will consolidate and move this agenda forward. The Government plan also calls for
high levels of foreign investment in the coming decade. While it will be difficult to sustain the
very high aver4ge levels of the 1990s (5 percent of GDP) as the Government hopes, recent and
planned measures suggest that recovery from the low levels of the past three years is quite
feasible. The Government recognizes that the success in promoting a vibrant private sector will
depend as much on changing attitudes (especially of mid-level officials who still have significant
discretionary power) as on the policy environment (see paragraphs 34-36 for PRSC program).
16.   State Enterprise Strategy. The Government's strategy calls for an efficient and
competitive state enterprise sector, with emphasis given to strategic industries. The plan
recognizes clearly that the status quo is not viable if the ten-year goals are to be met. Already in
the early 1990s the first round of major reform took place, with the number of SOEs cut by half
(from 12,000 to 6000), and a sharp reduction in budgetary subsidies for those that remained. The
Government now plans to divest one third of the current 5600 enterprises over the coming three
years, and to require remaining ones to become competitive. Over recent years, support has come
from directed credit and trade protection rather than from budget support. With the ongoing trade,
private sector and banking reforms, coupled with the greater financial transparency requirement,
the Government plans a transition to a more competitive enterprise climate over the coming five
years (see paragraphs 37-42 for the PRSC program).
17.   Banking Sector Restructuring. The Government has set out its clear goals to build a
modern banking system, in which credit is allocated according to expected return and risk, and
savings efficiently mobilized and intermediated into productive investment, with a minimum of
political interference. The current banking system, while altogether more market based and
efficient than a decade ago, is quite inadequate for the task it needs to play in the decade ahead,
and runs the risk of dragging Vietnam's development prospects sharply downwards. The four
major state-owned banks have become too exposed to inefficient SOEs, and non-performing
loans (NPLs) have risen sharply. The smaller joint stock banking sector has been inadequately
regulated, and has become financially unhealthy due to all of the standard problems of an
immature banking system - including insider lending. The Government has faced up to these
weaknesses, and has over the past two years prepared a detailed reform program that will be
supported under the PRSC. (See paragraphs 43-47 for the PRSC program).
18.   Integration into the World Economy through trade reform. Vietnam has laid out its
plans and timetable for integration in great detail. Two way trade already amounts to almost $25
billion per year (equivalent to over 80 percent of GDP), and the role of the private sector in trade
is already 50 percent. For the coming years Vietnam has committed - under AFTA, USBTA and
the PRSC - to liberalize its trade and investment rules, abolish quantitative restrictions on all but
five items, lower tariffs in accord with AFTA obligations and gradually develop the kind of
transparent, rules-based trading and investment system that would be required for entry into the
WTO in the second half of the decade. This gradual but firm policy shift will be supported under
the PRSC (see paragraphs 48-50 for the PRSC program).
13



2. Pro-Poor Sectoral Policies and Institutions
19.    The SDSD and the associated ten-year plans from individual ministries lay out a vision
for each major sector of the economy. The overall strategy that emerges is highly pro-poor. Mo e
precise policies and expenditure programs will be prepared in the coming months as the
Government's five-year expenditure plan is prepared, which in turn will be factored into the fi: II
PRSP in 2002. The following paragraphs summarize the Government's strategies and concerns n
some of the key sectors. This is intended for illustration rather than completeness. Most of these
measures, currently being developed, are not supported under the present PRSC, but future
PRSCs will support them as they are adopted. In addition, many of these programs and policie s
are supported under ongoing and planned IDA projects.
20.    Human Development Vietnam significantly outperforms comparable countries on mo ,t
indicators of human development (see Table 1).
fable 1: Key social indicators in Vietnam and( selected counitries
Vietnain  Uganda  India  Indonesia    Low incomne
country average
Infant Mortality rate (per 1000)        26       101      70        43            68
Under Five Mortality (per 1000)         37       170      83        52            92
Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 births)  160     510      410      450            n/a
Net enrolment in primary education      91       74*      77        99            86
Ratio of girls: boys in primary education  0.97  0.85    0.75      0.92          0.81
Adult literacy                          91        65      56        86            69
Source: Data for Vietnam from "Vietnam: Attacking Poverty" (1999). Data for other countries are from WDI 200t1;
Most recent year data. * Gross enrollment.
21.    But despite these impressive achievements there remain serious deficits in service
provision both with regard to quality and access. Vietnam's plans in the social sector are being
designed with the purpose of:
*  Addressing quality issues in education (curriculum reform, number of teaching hours,
teaching quality) and health (particularly the commune level services, staff recruitment
and remuneration);
*  Improving equity of social sector services by modifying instruments of expenditure
allocations within sectors and across provinces, as well as developing schemes that
facilitate access of the poor to eligible exemptions from health user fees and the costs cf
primary education;
*  Improving access to reproductive health care to reduce maternal mortality (which is
likely to be substantially higher than recorded figures) and improving access to modern
means of contraception for all people, especially women, in order to reduce reliance o n
abortions for contraception;
*  Supporting the development of policies to remodel the roles of the government and
private sectors in the provision and financing of these services.
14



These issues are central to a number of programs under preparation and will be supported in three
upcoming IDA projects -- Teacher Training, Basic Education for All, and Healthcare for the
Poor. They are expected to be supported through future PRSCs.
22.    Rural Transformation. While agricultural diversification and off-farm  growth will be
encouraged by structural reforms, specific sectoral policies will be necessary to ensure that rural
transformation leads to sustained poverty reduction in rural areas. Growth in agriculture was the
driving force behind poverty reduction in the last decade and agricultural diversification and
growth in off-farm enterprises are likely to be key to poverty-reduction in the coming decade. The
Government has identified the following areas where policy changes and actions are necessary
and has initiated work to develop specific measures and to build sufficient consensus around
these.
*   Modifying land allocation regulations to permit different patterns of landholding and to
allow more dynamic land use and thus agricultural diversification;
*  Adopting measures (e.g., implementing the new Law on Water Resources) for better
management of water resources for multiple uses on a basin-wide basis;
*   Establishing public investment criteria that channel funds to appropriate infrastructure
investment in rural areas;
*   Developing a policy framework to encourage non-bank micro-finance institutions for
providing credit to the poor so that more of them can participate in the opportunities
created by reforms;
*   Establishing criteria for implementation of land titling such that it permits a woman to
have equal ownership of land, a key asset in rural areas;
*   Formulating targeted area development plans for selected remote areas and ethnic
minorities to ensure that they benefit from rural growth;3
*   Establishing  a policy  framework to  encourage  behavioral changes necessary  for
environmental protection and sustainable resource use, especially for management of
forests water resources and coastal areas.
23.    Some of these issues are best addressed through project supports, while some are likely to
be supported under future PRSCs. Two upcoming IDA projects target communities in the poorest
rural areas. The Northern Mountains Rural Development Project addresses the special problems
of remote and ethnic minority areas. Similarly, the Community Based Infrastructure Project,
targeting the poorest communes, will provide small scale infrastructure with choices in each
commune based on actual demand of commune residents.
Most remote districts and provinces are populated by ethnic minorities and their gains from the last decade of poverty
reduction have been disproportionately low. Participatory poverty appraisals (PPAs) show that ethnic minorities suffer
from multiple disadvantages, which interlock to make their poverty particularly intractable. Sectoral interventions in
agriculture is important since most ethnic minorities will remain farmers for some time and serious research on upland
farming options and adequate funding for an effective extension service may be helpful. Ensuring land titling measures,
more in line with ethnic community traditions, practice and land use systems, will help, as will more equitable access to
quality health and education services.
15



24.    Infrastructure and Access. Despite rapid expansion in infrastructure investment in the
1990s, current levels of access to infrastructure services is much poorer in Vietnam than in
comparable countries. This is due to the highly unfavorable initial conditions.
25.    Improving quantity, quality and access to infrastructure services -- transport, energy and
urban development -- will remain critical to rapid growth and poverty reduction in this decade, as
emphasized in all strategy documents of the Government. The World Bank, together with otfter
donors, plays an important role in supporting public infrastructure investments, but a number of
policies and institutional steps are needed, and private sector investment needs to be facilitated.
26.    Underway are a number of activities to help set policies and institutional arrangements to
enable rapid expansion in infrastructure in a manner that is financially sound and ensures acc(!ss
for all. These include:
*  Developing and implementing an appropriate pricing and tariff regime for each of ihe
infrastructure sub-sectors;
* Improving further the policy-regime for foreign investments in infrastructure;
* Developing criteria for channeling public investment funds in a way that maintains an
appropriate balance between rural and urban infrastructure, securing balance between
recurrent and capital expenditures, and supporting poverty-reduction;
Adopting measures to decentralize management of electricity distribution, to empov- er
local communities to manage their own grids and improve services;
Improving corporate governance in infrastructure sub-sectors to increase efficiency of
services;4
* Enhancing effectiveness of existing instruments for pollution control and environmenal
performance of industries, including the planned phase-out of lead in gasoline.
27.    Reforming Public Administration and Improving Governance. Improved governance is
a central theme of the Government's Ten Year Socioeconomic Development Strategy.
Recognizing that progress in creating an efficient, accountable and transparent pub ic
administration and governance structure has lagged other areas of reform, the Authorities ha {e
recently given additional emphasis to this area. Among the key components of the reform strate.gy
are:
*  Public Administration Reform. The Government has recently completed a plan of acticn,
involving reform of the civil service, including revisions to the salary and incenti-e
structures, greater clarity in accountabilities, and a number of organizational changes.
This is currently under discussions among key stakeholders.
*  Improved Public Financial Management. Vietnam  has embarked on a program  :)f
increased clarity and transparency in its provision of financial data to citizens at both tbie
central and local levels (see paragraphs 54-55 for PRSC support.)
*  Legal System Development Recognizing that the legal system is inadequate to support
the further transition towards a market-based economy, the Government has embarkc d
upon a "Legal Needs Assessment" with the assistance of a multi-donor team.
4 Around 17 percent of electricity and 30 percent of piped water is lost before reaching the consumer and this cost is
paid disproportionately by the poor.
16



*  Addressing Corruption. The problem of corruption is serious and growing in Vietnam.
An Anti-Corruption Ordinance was issued in 1998, and a campaign against corruption
was launched in August 2000. A corruption "hot line" has been established, and a number
of senior officials have been dismissed, but a more systemic approach is still required,
involving the measure to improve governance mentioned above.
*  Creating a More Participatory and Responsive Government. Important progress has been
done recently in promoting participation of citizens in policy choices. The Grassroots
Democracy Decree and the Law on Science and Technology have respectively
empowered local decision making and enabled the emergence of civil society
organizations. But the process will need to be deepened over the coming years.
m. POVERTY REDUCTION PROGRAM FOR BANK SUPPORT
A. INSTRUMENTS OF BANK SUPPORT
28.   Since re-starting our program in Vietnam in 1993, we have actively supported Vietnam's
policy of transition towards a more market oriented economy with its special emphasis on
equitable development. The 1998 Country Assistance Strategy laid out a program that continued
our active support for economic reform and infrastructure investment, but also gave a new
emphasis to poverty reduction, especially in rural areas. Since then a series of credits have sought
to provide access for poor people to infrastructure, credit, and social services. These were
accompanied by a program of economic and sector work that sought to deepen knowledge on the
causes and characteristic of poverty in Vietnam, and on the policies and programs required to
address these causes. At the same time, a significant program of technical assistance has been
provided to the Government (mainly using Institutional Development Funds and Trust Funds) to
prepare for the complex structural and institutional reforms that are required in banking,
enterprise reform, trade policy, and public expenditure management in order to continue
Vietnam's modernization goals. A series of adjustment credits was planned to support the
implementation of this program. This strategy was reaffirmed in the CAS Progress Report of May
2000.
29.    It is now proposed that a PRSC be provided as an alternative to the adjustment credits.
The PRSC instrument has the advantage of placing the structural reforms within a broader context
of long term poverty reduction. It also provides the flexibility that is especially valuable to a
country such as Vietnam where the inclusion of detailed credit agreement covenants to adopt
detailed policy measures at specific times in the future is not attractive.
30.   The present PRSC is a two-tranche operation of US$250 million, but subsequent PRSCs
will have single tranches. Table 2 lays out the amount, the tranching, and the timing of likely
board and disbursement dates. The second tranche of this PRSC is expected to be disbursed
around June 2002 if all actions are taken. By that time the full PRSP will be nearing completion
and can provide the basis for any adjustment of IDA Country Assistance Strategy and for
determining subsequent PRSCs. The second and third PRSCs are expected to go to the Board in
May 2003 and May 2004, respectively, within an overall assistance program that will be laid out
in the new CAS .
17



Table 2. Programii of Povertv Reduction Support Creclits (PRSCs)
I-PRSP        PRSC-I        Full PRSI"       PRSC-1          PRSC-II       PRSC-lII
I" tra,uche                   2"" tranc,e      SIO-150       S1OO-150
S100 nmillion                 S.S rmillion      million        millioln
Dates         Apr 2001        Jun 2001       Mar-Jun         Jun 2002       May 2003       May 201)4
2002
31.     The choice of the policy-measures in the Govemment's program that is being supporied
under the proposed PRSC is dictated by three factors. First, structural inefficiencies are presen:ly
the dominant constraint on growth and poverty-reduction in Vietnam. This is also evident from
Box 2, which shows that Vietnam is ahead of the low-income countries' average in respect of
social equity, and in terms of macroeconomic management, but lagging in respect of structutal
policies and public sector management. Second, the Govemment has identified and adopted, in
the I-PRSP, a medium-term program of macro and structural policies (see I-PRSP matrix) in
particular structural refonn and public expenditure measures, while details on some of the kSy
sectoral policies are still under development and have yet to be adopted. Third, many importunt
sectoral issues are being addressed under current and planned IDA project credits, and by otler
donors' programs.
Box 2: Vietnam Lags in Structural Policies & Public Sector Management Relative to IDA -average
This figure compares Vietnam's rating (in mid-2000) with the average rating for all IDA countries (the
shaded part indicates the IDA-average). These ratings are based on assessments of twenty aspects of each
country s policy and institutional framework.5 Research on aid effectiveness have found a strong positive
relationship between the rating of a country on these twenty aspects and its economic performance in
respect of growth and poverty-reduction.
Policy& Institutiooal Assessment: Vietnam Versus IDA Aserage
Intlation & iOP Mgt
EqtY PolCy              Fiscal Poh.zy
soc-r1 PoIhy                      Ext Debt Mgj
Factor,&Prodac.t Markets    _a8rking9tbility -dEffic-tc,
P.Ibhc Sector Ma-gemrnt         Competitne Envon & PSD
Tr- & F-rex PoQ
* IDA Average 0 V,etsan
Resource allocation by IDA to low-income countries is based on "performance rating' of each country, whi[h
consists of two types of World Bank assessments. The first is an assessment of the quality of policy and institutiov al
framework that ensures efficient utilization of scarce development resources to achieve sustainable and poverty
reducing development, called the Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA). The CPIA is composed of feur
aspects of economic management, six aspects of structural policies, five aspects of policies for social policy and equi y,
and five aspects of public sector management. The second assessment, not shown in the box, is an assessment of the
implementation performance of World Bank projects in the country.
18



B. KEY ELEMENTS OF THE PRSC PROGRAM
32.      Program  objectives and outcomes.  By the end of this first cycle of the PRSC  program
(i.e., by 2004), the economy is expected to return to higher growth rates and faster poverty-
reduction than has been the case in the last three years. The key analytical underpinnings to
develop policies to achieve such outcomes have been discussed with govemment through a series
of economic reports and the CAS. 6 Based on this work and its own socio-economic development
planning process , the govemment prepared the I-PRSP, discussed by the IDA Board on April 12,
2001. This and other govemment planning documents contain policy strategies and outcome
indicators listed in Table 3. The govemment is now embarking on preparing a full PRSP and this
will be reflected in the next Country Assistance Strategy which would spell out the overall
framework within which additional PRSCs could be developed in support of the full PRSP.
Table 3: Key Outcomes Envisaged by End of PRSC Program Period
Areas and indicators                                       End-period-Outcomues*
1. Overall:
a) GDP growth rate                                                7 percent (up from 5.5 percent)
b) Poverty Incidence                                              25 percent (down from 37 in 1997/98)
2. Private Sector:
a) Total private investment                                        I I percent of GDP (up from 8 percent)
b) Foreign investment                                             3.5 percent of GDP (up from 2 percent)
c) Private SMEs                                                   30,000 new firms
3. Banking System
a) All commercial banks                                           Compliance with banking regulations
b) Share of credit to private sector                              60-65 percent (up from 55 percent)
...   . ....... ........    ..... ................ .   .... .......... ...........  ......  ............... .......... ..... .........  ......... .  ...........  ........................   ....   ....... .....  ..      ........................  ......... .................
4. State-Owned-Enterprises:
a) SOE-sector performance data                                    Available annually
b) SOE sector                                                     Higher share of profitable SOEs
c) SOE equitizations, sales, liquidations*                        Around 1800 SOEs
~~~~~~~~~~~. ............ .. ...._ .......... ....  .  ...... ..............  .. ........   ........ .....  .... ..... ... ......... ......  .. . .. ...... .... .  ....... ..... .. ........ ...  .... ......... .. .. ........... ...... .............. .........  ........
5   Openness
a) Export/GDP ratio                                              50 percent of GDP (up from 47 percent)
b) Share of manufactured/processed products in total exports    40-45 percent of exports (up from 37 percent)
......    . ..... ..... .... .....  ..  ....  ....... .. ..........  ........ ..  .. .... .......  . .  ............... ..  _ ... .. ....  ...... ...  ......... . ............ ..  .... ..... ......  ...  ...... ....
6.  Public Expenditure:                                                         .
a) Budgetary data                                                Timely, consistent, comprehensive data from
treasury's public financial management system.
b) Equity for provinces' social spending                         Poor provinces' per capita social-sector
7.i Social Sector                                                    spending will reach 'current' nation p n la n nog
i7.  Scial Sector
a) Net primary enrollment rate*                                 93 percent (up from 91 percent)
b) Net secondary enrollment rate*                               73 percent (up from 70 percent)
c) Infant mortality rate per 1000                               23 (down from 26)
d) Under-five mortality rate per 1000                           34 (down from 37)
e) Child malnutrition (stunting incidence)*                     29 percent (down from 34 percent in 1997/98)
Note: * Outcomes from the Govemment's sectoral strategies.
6 The most recent economic reports include:  Vietnam 2010: Entering the 21" Century, November 29, 2000 (Joint
World Bank, ADB and UNDP); Vietnam: Managing Public Resources Better - Public Expenditure Review 2000,
December 13, 2000 (Joint government and donor report); Vietnam Development Report 2000: Attacking Poverty,
November 15, 1999 (Joint government, donors and NGOs). A joint World Bank-ADB Country Financial
Accountability Assessment is currently being discussed with the government and is expected to be finalized in May
2001. A draft Country Procurement Review has been prepared jointly with the government and is expected to be
finalized in June 2001.
19



This would be achieved through rising private investment, with the domestic private sector
contributing most of that investment for the first time, as is shown in Table 3. The economy will
be more open, the share of exports in GDP will rise and its composition will shift further towards
manufactured and processed exports. Commercial banks will be in better financial health with tfie
share of NPLs falling; also they will be providing more effective financial intermediaticn
including a higher share of credit to the private sector. State-owned enterprises will be moie
competitive and profitable. Transparency and comparability of information in respect of bank;,
the budget and state-enterprises will be significantly enhanced. The public expenditure system
will have more timely, consistent and comprehensive budgetary information for all government
agencies, especially sector ministries, thereby improving control, management and allocation of
spending. The share of recurrent spending will be higher and social spending more equitably
distributed across provinces.
33.    To restore high and sustained growth and reduce poverty in Vietnam, the Government
has developed a multiyear program and initiated firm actions in five areas, to be supported by the
PRSC: (a) improving the climate for private enterprise, (b) state-owned enterprise reform, (c)
banking system reform, (d) trade reform, and (e) reform of public expenditure management. The
effectiveness of these policy changes presumes that the macroeconomic situation remairs
consistent with the medium-term macroeconomic framework articulated in the I-PRSP. Some
parts of this program, especially those with significant macroeconomic implications are being
supported by a parallel Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) provided by the IMF.
1. Private Sector Reform
34.   Issues. Private sector reform is a central ingredient for employment and wage growth.
The implementation of the Enterprise Law and the revised Foreign Investment Law in 2000 have
given the private sector new impetus, but more measures need to be taken if this is to be
sustained. Access to, and private transactions in, land-use-rights have to be facilitated, business
licensing restrictions in the remaining sub-sectors removed or simplified and access to credit and
capital improved, in order to level the "playing field" for the private sector.
35.    Government's private sector program. The Government plans to continue liberalizing
the climate for private investment and hence to take the following steps over the next three years.
First, remaining business license restrictions on entry in industries, trades and services will either
be eliminated or modified; where modified, they will become conditions that all businesses have
to satisfy after they begin operation. Second, registration of private SMEs in the provinces will be
monitored and the comparative ease with which they can expand in different provinces assessed.
Third, a new decree will be issued to establish various credit and guarantee mechanisms as well
as support institutions for SMEs. Fourth, the Government will facilitate the formation cf
Vietnamese business associations consisting only of private sector firms, so that they can share
information and establish support services for members. This is also part of the Miyazawa
program for private sector development (JBIC 2000). Fifth, the private sector's access to land
and credit will be improved by allocating land more transparently and by removing restrictions on
allocation of agricultural land for industrial purposes. In addition, secured transactions'
registration offices will be established in the first year of the program. There will also be a
"national data system" on secured transactions which will permit registration of mortgages of
land-use rights and of buildings. Sixth, the dual pricing system will be gradually dismantled and
the revised foreign investment law fully implemented.
36.   PRSC program  benchmarks for the private sector. The following private sector
benchmarks will be monitored under the PRSC program: (a) annual number of private SME
20



registrations and their provincial distribution; (b) growth in SME employment; (c) growth in
domestic private investment; (d) annual foreign investment inflow into export-oriented and
infrastructure projects; (e) number of registration offices set up and number of secured
transactions executed through these offices; and (f) share of total credit to the private sector.
2. State-Owned Enterprise Reform
37.   Issues.  SOE reform  is important both to free up resources for poverty reduction
programs and to achieve a level playing field with a dynamic private sector. Despite import
protection and other privileges, official estimates show that more than 60 percent of SOEs are not
profitable and other estimates suggest that the number may be even higher. SOEs account for 30
percent of GDP and around 50 percent of bank credit. Total SOE debt (including inter-enterprise
debt) is estimated at VND 190 trillion at end-1999, a large proportion of which is owed to banks
and is non-performing, thereby undermining the banking system. SOEs suffer from overstaffing,
outdated technology, poor transparency of information and a low degree of management
accountability for performance. There is an urgent need to make most of them sufficiently
competitive to survive the rising competition from the planned trade and private sector
liberalization.
38.    The Government's SOE reform program.7 The Government's SOE reform program
includes general measures that will create greater transparency, accountability and financial
discipline, enterprise-specific measures that will permit varying degrees of non-state ownership,
as well as social-safety-net measures (see section III. C for details on these measures) that will
mitigate the social costs of reform. The measures under the reform program are not aimed at
reducing significantly the absolute size of the capital-stock in the SOE sector. However, it is
expected that growth of this capital stock, both during and after this three-year period of reform,
will increasingly depend on whether and to what extent the sector becomes competitive and
profitable. Together with complementary reforms -- trade and private sector liberalization as well
as banking reform and ceilings on domestic credit growth to state-enterprises -- this SOE reforn
program will encourage managers to improve efficiency and competitiveness of their enterprises.
39.    General measures. The general measures, included in the SOE reform programs, are
aimed at the following:
* Imposing stricter financial discipline. Restraining growth of credit to SOEs (e.g. growing by
12 percent in the first year as compared to 20 percent for total credit) and quarterly
monitoring of 200 highly indebted SOEs covering nearly 30 percent of SOE debt are
expected to encourage all SOEs to reform. In addition, debt rescheduling or debt relief,
available only to SOEs that implement serious reform and restructuring of their enterprises,
will reinforce that incentive. While SOEs that are being equitized, divested, and liquidated
will be automatically eligible for debt relief, if such relief is warranted, wholly Government-
owned business-oriented SOEs will be eligible only if they meet the following conditions:
they have a detailed restructuring plan approved by MOF and the relevant commercial
creditor bank; they report every six months on the restructuring actions taken and on the
performance on rescheduled debt payments; and finally their products will face rising
external competition under the trade reform program, i.e. QRs are removed and/or tariffs vis-
a-vis ASEAN countries are reduced to 20 percent or less on competing imports. Also,
complementary reforms in banking that encourage banks to lend mainly on the basis of
7The Government has adopted a five-year SOE reform program covering nearly half the number of SOEs, with annual
targets for the first three years of the program.
21



commercial criteria, including lending to SOEs, will ensure stricter financial discipline in the
future.
*  Increasing transparency of SOE information and accountability. Significant improvements n
the recording and reporting of systematic data on SOE performance will happen in thrve
ways. First, the existing requirement that yearly financial reports and audit reports tie
provided by the SOEs will be enforced and monitored more effectively. Second, the existir g
MIS in the MOF -- to monitor performnance and cover key data of all 5600 SOEs -- will ble
strengthened with the relevant officials trained and access to the database and to the reports
widened. Initial work to ascertain the required changes has already been completed. Third. a
more detailed and advanced information system will be established for around 300 of the
largest SOEs which will permit a more careful evaluation of performance.
*  Enhancing effectiveness ofprocess of equitization. Four changes to the process of equitizatic n
are planned in order to attract investors with more capital and better management expertise.
First, existing caps on shareholding in equitized enterprises for individuals and legal entitios
of 10 and 20 percent respectively, will be removed. Second, more equitized SOEs will be
encouraged to list on the stock market. Third, detailed and informative lists of SOEs planned
to be sold at a particular time will be published in local and national newspapers, 30 davs
before offers are sought, to ensure that more potential investors know about them. Fourth, the
responsibility for selling and issuing shares will be removed from the management of
individual SOEs to another central agency designated by Government.
40.    Enterprise-specific measures. All enterprise-specific measures, applicable to arourd
2225 SOEs over three years, will cover 41 percent of SOEs, 53 percent of SOE employment and
50 percent of SOE debt over the next three years (see Table 4). These measures include: "major"
equitizations (where more than 65 percent shares are sold to non state shareholders and the Sta:e
has no dominant or special shares); "minor" equitizations (where shares are sold to non-stace
shareholders and the State retains control through dominant or special shareholding while runnirg
the enterprise commercially under the Enterprise Law); outright sales of enterprises as going
concerns; liquidations, and restructuring based on time-bound action plans.
Table 4: Coverage of three-year SOE reform pr ogram
SOE       % of SOEs   % (ot SOF    6 of SOEF
nusnbers"'                employment       debt
Equitizations, Sales, Liquidations     1775          32            18           10
Major Equitizations*,                925           17            9            6
Sales and Liquidations
Minor Equitizations**                850           15            9            4
Restructuring action plans             250            5            17           10
Three General Corporations           150           3             6            2
Diagnostic Audits of Large SOE       100           2            1 1           7
Enhanced quarterly monitoring          200            4            18           30
All enterprise-specific actions        2225          41            53           50
Note: * Enterprises where more than 65% shares are sold to non-state shareholders and State has no dominant or special shares.
** Equitized enterprises where the State retains dominant or special shares. (There are 5571 SOEs comprising of 4839
business-oriented SOEs and 732 public utility/service SOEs.)
22



*  Major equitizations, sales and liquidations. Three of the enterprise-specific measures --
"major" equitizations, outright sales and liquidations - applicable to around 925 SOEs over
three-years, will cover 17 percent of SOEs, 9 percent of SOE-employment and 6 percent of
SOE-debt (Table 4). These measures will not reduce the size of the SOE sector significantly.
"Major" equitizations and sales will shift control out of State hands and provide more
autonomy and better incentives for managers to improve efficiency and profitability. More
importantly, they will not have an automatic right to State support, and will thus depend on
other sources for new investment. Evidence from an early period of such equitizations in
Vietnam shows that equitized SOEs can increase both employment and profitability. Closer
monitoring of post-equitization performance is planned in order to assess whether the
expected gains are realized and what conditions are most propitious for these gains.
*  Minor equitizations. "Minor" equitizations, applicable to around 850 SOEs over three years,
will cover 15 percent of SOEs, 9 percent of SOE-employment and 4 percent of SOE-debt.
Though the State retains control in these enterprises, their managers will have more
autonomy, operating under the Enterprise law. Without the right to financial support from
the State, they will need to seek other sources of capita] and if necessary sell more shares
either directly or through the stock market.
*  Restructuring actions. Restructuring based on time-bound action plans, applicable to around
250 large SOEs, will cover 5 percent of SOEs, 17 percent of SOE-employment and 5 percent
of SOE-debt. Two processes will generate enterprise-specific restructuring action plans. First,
diagnostic audits of 100 large and troubled SOEs will generate an action plan based on the
findings. Second, detailed analysis of governance structure of three General Corporations
(CGCs) covering 150 large SOEs, will be done to develop detailed restructuring action plans
for each GC. This restructuring is expected to generate some alternative models of corporate
governance and improve performance of the covered enterprises.
41.   Environmental liabilities. Some of the enterprises to be equitized in certain sectors -- in
particular, mining and timber -- may have environmental liabilities that need to be examined
before sale. Potential investors will need clarification from the Government about the scope of
past problems and the burden of future mitigation requirements. To address these concerns, the
Government plans to do routine environmental audits, where necessary, as part of the technical
preparation for equitization with the support of technical assistance from donors (see paragraph
105). These audits would specify the estimated cost of cleaning up environmental liabilities and
of improving operations to comply with current environmental standards.
42.   PRSC program  benchmarks in SOE-reform. The SOE reform  benchmarks to be
monitored under the PRSC program will be the following: (a) number of SOEs that are equitized
(both major and minor equitization), sold entirely, and liquidated; (b) amendments to Decree 44
to improve transparency and effectiveness of equitization; (c) number of SOEs that have
completed diagnostic audits and developed an action plan; (d) SOEs receiving debt -
rescheduling by number and compliance with eligibility conditions; and (e) annual and quarterly
analysis of SOE performance based on financial reports from SOEs.
23



3.  Banking Reform8
43.    Government's banking reform program. Banking reform is critical to reduce the risk of
a financial crisis which could have a devastating impact on the poor. The Government Itas
adopted a comprehensive banking reform program that relies on market-based actions, and
coordinated implementation of SOE reforms.9 The objective of this round of banking reforms is
to promote enhanced transparency and better financial intermediation in the medium term by
establishing a better legal regulatory and supervisory regime that encourages transparen..<y,
accountability and a more level playing field for all banks by restructuring of non-state JSBs and
by commercializing SOCBs through phased and conditional recapitalization.
44.    Improving the legal, regulatory and supervisory framework. Steps have been taken in
recent months to strengthen the framework for prudent banking and further steps are planned over
the next three years. Prudential regulations in respect of capital adequacy ratios, related party
lending, collateral requirements, criteria for intervening in troubled banks and deposit insurarce
have been recently implemented. Regulations on loan-classification and loan-loss provisioning
will be amended to move closer to international standards, and the legal framework for credi -or
rights will be strengthened. Policies and procedures for banking supervisory functions will mcve
towards a more risk-based system and capacity for on-site inspections will be developed.
45.    Restructuring of Joint Stock Banks. The government will continue to restructure and
strengthen the JSBs. Three JSBs have been closed with their licenses revoked, two have been
merged and thirteen others have been placed under special control of the central bank.
Mechanisms for rehabilitating marginally capitalized but viable banks and for addressing
insolvent ones have been improved. Existing shareholders of JSBs are being asked to replensh
capital, failing which SBV will require the troubled bank to seek new capital directly or through
merger with another JSB, failing which it will be closed. Government financing of closed JS Bs
will follow a formal and transparent process for repaying depositors either through the depcsit
insurance scheme or through liquidity support. By end 2001, the total number of JSBs will be
reduced significantly, with all JSBs moving towards full compliance with regulatory standards.
46.    Restructuring of State Owned Commercial Banks. The framework for comprehensive
SOCB restructuring, as specified in the Letter of Development Policy, has been adopted recently,
and aims at resolving their deep-seated problems. Detailed restructuring plans for each SOCB are
being prepared in line with the framework, and the first individual restructuring plan : or
Vietcombank has already been adopted. The SOCB restructuring program, to be implemented in
coordination with the three-year SOE reform program, includes the following key components:
*  Phasing out policy and non-commercial directed lending by SOCBs, except for a few cases in
the transition where explicit MOF guarantees are provided. This will ensure that SOCB
management remains accountable for the performance of all its loan portfolio except thc se
with an explicit MOF guarantee. All new policy and noncommercial directed loans will be
provided through a planned Policy Bank and the recently established Development Support
Fund.
Vietnam's banking system consists of five state-owned commercial banks (accounting for 80 percent of total bsnk
assets), 48 predominantly non-state joint-stock banks (accounting for 12 percent of total assets), and 26 branches of
foreign banks and four joint-venture banks (together accounting for 8 percent of system assets.
9Country experiences show that a particularly costly alternative in terms of long-term growth is the recourse to non-
market instruments of bank restructuring-interest and exchange controls, strengthening of state banking and directed
lending to priority sectors, limiting competition, and restricting the scope of banking activities.
24



*   Phasing re-capitalization of each SOCB over a three year period, conditional on SOCB's
satisfactory annual performance in respect of key actions and key operational targets
established in their individual restructuring plans. For all four large SOCBs, there will be an
explicit understanding between each SOCB and the SBV in the form of a SBV decision
clarifying details of each SOCB restructuring plan. Implementation of that decision in terms
of key actions and targets for each year, by the relevant SOCB, will lead to release of phased
government funding of non-recoverable NPLs and re-capitalization. These actions will
inc lude measures to strengthen SOCB management's autonomy and accountability, enhance
transparency and reliability of information, increase commercial orientation of lending,
resolve NPLs, and raise profitability. Vietcombank has already adopted such a phased and
conditional restructuring plan with annual actions and targets.10
*  Resolving Non-Performing Loans. NPLs as of December 2000 will be resolved by the
SOCBs through their own asset management companies (AMCs) and loan workout units
(LWUs). Collateralized NPLs will be transferred to the AMC, a subsidiary of the SOCB with
dedicated management and staff. Non-collateralized bad loans will be moved to LWUs.
NPLs will be classified on the basis of revised loan-classification standards in line with IAS,
starting from the beginning of 2002. The recovery process will follow a specified timetable in
the restructuring plan.
* Conducting annual independent IAS audits by international auditors starting in 2001. In 2001,
Vietcombank, Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV), Vietnam Bank for
Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), and Incombank will complete IAS audits of
the fiscal year 2000. These audits will help to ascertain accurately the financial health of the
banks, and guide appropriate loan classification and loan-loss provisioning. The audit reports
and their findings will be available to the MOF, SBV, the Board of Management of the
relevant SOCBs and the World Bank for monitoring performance of the SOCBs.
*  Raising the share of credit to the private sector through SOCB restructuring. This will
support Government's goal of higher private investment. Though around half the bank credit
goes to non-state-sector, only a small proportion of that credit goes to private SMEs. SOCBs
will be encouraged to develop special units for providing more effective banking services,
including credit, to the emerging and growing domestic private sector.
47.    PRSC program benchmarks in banking reform. The banking sector reformn benchmarks
to be monitored under the PRSC are the following: (a) independent IAS audits of the four large
SOCBs; (b) annual milestones of actions and targets achieved by each of the four SOCBs; (c)
number of JSBs closed or merged and number of JSBs that meet minimum capital requirements;
(d) number of banks in compliance with the new rules on loan classification and loan-loss
provisioning; and (e) share of SOCB credit going to the private sector, especially to private
SMEs.
 Vieitcom Bank's restructuring plan specifies actions and targets for each year. On the NPLs to be processed, loan
classification for all loans and recovery action plans for bad loans of the 50 largest debtors will be completed in the first
year and recovery action plans for all others will be completed in the second. On the NPL recovery rate, the targets are
10 percent in the first year, 25 percent in the second and 35 percent in the third year. Provisioning based on IAS will
be implemented in phases each year. and will be completed in the third year. On measures to strengthen risk-
management, audits, loan monitoring and so on, specific measures are proposed for each year. On performance targets
they include capital-to-asset ratios of 6 to 8 percent, a return on assets of at least 0.5 percent and NPLs below 4 percent
of total loans in the third year.
25



4. Trade Reform
48.    Issues. Trade reforn is an integral component of the Government's strategy to expand
exports, access technology and promote competitive domestic output. Trade policies have been
liberalized throughout the 1990s and Vietnam remains strongly committed to continuing
liberalization of trade and integration with the rest of the world. All domestic firmns are now able
to import and export freely without requiring a license. Exports, with a few exceptions, face no
quantitative controls and imports, though considerably liberalized, have quotas and quantitative
restrictions (QRs) on another II items (4 digit HS codes). Vietnam has committed under AF FA
and the USBTA (see Annex 7 for details) to continue liberalizing goods trade, foreign investment
and foreign entry into the service sector, over the next three to seven years.
49.     Government's trade program for Bank support. The Government has sought sup. ort
over the next three years for the following measures under its trade liberalization program: (a)
QRs will be removed multilaterally from clinker and paper by early 2002 and from cemtnt,
remaining types of steel, construction glass, vegetable oil, ceramic and granite tiles by early
2003;" (b) the share of garnent-export quotas to be auctioned will be raised each year from 20
percent in 2000; (c) rice exports will be further liberalized to allow exporters to buy and exyort
rice more freely; and (d) tariffs will be reduced to 20 percent on AFTA-imports for most of the
tariff lines by early 2003. The import liberalization vis-a-vis ASEAN will be a major source of
competitive pressure on the manufacturing SOEs.'2
50.    PRSC program  benchmarks in trade. The trade reform benchmarks to be monito-ed
under the PRSC program will be: (a) removal of QRs multilaterally; (b) annual reductions in
tariff rates on ASEAN imports; (c) annual increases in the share of garment export quotas that is
auctioned and changes in the share of private enterprises in garment exports; (d) changes in the
share of private sector in rice exports: and (e) changes in the domestic price of rice and other key
consumption items for the poorest quintile.
5. Public Expenditure Management
51.    Issues.  Improved public spending is an important instrument to offset the incipi.nt
trends towards increased inequality in Vietnam and to reach marginalized groups who do -ot
directly  benefit from  overall economic  growth.   Vietnam  has implemented  significant
improvements in public expenditure management and in transparency of public spending by
enacting the Budget Law in 1997 and removing the secrecy of budgetary information in 1999 In
fact, the existing public expenditure management system perforns well in respect of the
following:
*   Making relatively reliable forecasts of revenue every year;
*  Keeping aggregate spending in line with available public resources, even when there i, a
decline in the GDP share of revenue;
Sugar, petroleum products, alcohol, motorbikes, and motorcars will continue to be protected by QRs beyond the
three-year period. This will reduce the import coverage of QRs from around 24 percent in 1999 to around 11 percert in
early 2003.
' With tariffs on manufactured ASEAN imports continuing down there is be considerable urgency for SOEs in textiles,
in non-metallic mineral products (i.e., glass and ceramic products), in food products (e.g.. vegetable oil), and in stee.
products - where both QRs and tariffs are being reduced - to restructure themselves relatively quickly to become
competitive. (See Annex 8 for details on tariff reductions).
26



*  Ensuring that actual spending is in line with the budget in each sector, with rare deviations;
*  Implementing checks and verifications of quarterly expenditures limits;
*  Achieving relatively strong impacts in sectors relevant to poverty reduction, as evident from
sectoral outcomes.
52.    The joint government-donor public expenditure review  (PER), Managing Public
Resources Better (World Bank 2000), presented to the Consultative Group of donors in 2000,
confirmed these features but identified the following weaknesses that need to be corrected:
*  Data recording and reporting is not consistent nor timely, in part because the classification
and accounting systems used are not uniform across sectors, and because responsibility for
reporting/recording government's accounts is not located in the treasury in MOF;
*  There is limited within-year monitoring of actual line item expenditures by first and second
levels of a ministry, the treasury, and the state budget department, because such data is not
available;
*  Budgetary spending data is not comprehensive in the sense that it excludes "off-budget"
accounts and a share of the ODA-funds;
*  Detailed budgetary information is not accessible for the public at large nor for all government
agencies (including local authorities and sector ministries);13
*  Budget formulation and execution processes do not integrate the recurrent and capital
spending sufficiently, creating imbalances in various sectors;
*  Existing allocation processes (e.g., norms for recurrent social spending and norms for
transfers from state to poor provinces) are inadequately designed to ensure equity across
regions and provinces.
53.    In addition, the joint review of public expenditure has recommended reallocation of
spending within sectors, especially in health, transport and agriculture. However, to decide on the
extent of this reallocation will require further work on the tracking, the incidence and the impact
of sectoral expenditures.
54.    Government's public expenditure reform program. The Government has adopted an
action plan of measures to improve public expenditure management, with a detailed timetable for
the next three years, including the revision of the 1997 Budget Law by next year. These include
*  Improving public transparency further by publishing more budgetary data, including sectoral
breakdown of 75 percent of total spending by early next year, and ensuring that commune
budgets are posted outside commune offices;
*  Designating the treasury in MOF as the main department responsible for maintaining
comprehensive public accounts (including aid-expenditures) and implementing a fully
integrated public financial management system, including uniform accounting system in the
treasury;
13 However, an earlier joint-Bank-Fund report Towards Fiscal Transparency (World Bank 1999) identified a medium-
term program for increasing budgetary transparency. Initial steps, such as removing the budget from the secrecy law
and doing a participatory PER, have been taken over the last two years.
27



* Consolidating the budget and expenditure information by including the outturn on vari,nus
"off-budget" Government accounts including their funding sources;
* Revising "norms" for recurrent budget allocations and for cash transfers to poorer provinc.es
to ensure greater equity for poorer provinces, especially in social spending;
*  Integrating recurrent and capital spending in budget formulation and execution processes to
ensure better balance;
*  Adopting medium  term  sector expenditure programs in each sector, starting with basic
education.
55.    PRSC program benchmarks for public expenditure. The public expenditure benchma ks
to be monitored under the PRSC program will include: (a) timely, consistent, comprehensive, nd
proper classification of budgetary information; (b) availability and accessibility of within-y -ar
line-item budgetary information for all spending agencies during budget execution; (c) change in
coverage of state-budget information that is published; (d) number of communes posting t}leir
budgets outside commune offices; (e) implementation of changes in norms for recurrnt
expenditure and for transfers to poorer provinces; and (f) provincial distribution of actual pul- lic
expenditures for priority sectors (health, education and agriculture); (g) changes in recurr nt
expenditures.
C. SOCIAL AND FISCAL IMPACT OF THE PROGRAM
1. Impact of the Program on the Poor
56.    There is strong evidence from  international experience, and from  Vietnam's ear ier
performance, that faster growth has a powerful role to play in reducing poverty.,4 There is also
evidence to suggest that the pattern of growth and the initial distribution of human and physical
capital are important factors in determining how  income and consumption generated b\ a
particular rate of growth are distributed across the population. The distributional equity of hutrman
and physical assets in Vietnam have improved over the previous decade, and the higher gro'.vth
arising from this program is thus expected to have a particularly powerful impact on reduc ng
poverty. There will be some transitional losses of employment due to reforms. But these ire
addressed through an expanded social safety net under the program (see paragraphs 66-70 :.nd
Boxes 3-5).
57.    The impact of the reform program on the poor households is likely to come from ti' ree
sources:
*  Raising household income of the poor through expanding employment opportunities ..nd
rising rates of return of various activities, including agriculture;
*   Increasing consumption through lower prices of goods and services that poor househclds
consume;
14 On average, every percentage point increase in average household consumption reduces the proportion of people
living on less than $2 per day by about 2 per cent (World Bank 2000a). Analysis of growth and contraction ir 65
developing countries shows that, on average, growth in consumption by the poorest fifth tracked overall economic
growth one-for-one in the 1980s and 1990s (World Bank 2000a).
28



*   Expanding provisions for health and education services for the poor, through higher
revenues, better targeting and improved public expenditure management.
58.    Within households, women will gain too, but less than men, for a number of reasons.
Their access to land and to land-titles are poorer than that of men. While their access to primary
education is similar to men's, it is less so for higher levels of education. Also, the burden of
domestic work is likely to restrict many women's participation in the off-farm labor market that is
expected to grow with reform. However, the social impact of the program has no gender-bias and
the enhanced social safety net for SOE workers has been designed to minimize gender-bias (see
Box 5 for details).
59.    Impact on employment through higher investment and exports.  Reformns in state-
enterprises, banking, trade and private sector will improve resource allocation and encourage
higher investment and exports, generating higher growth and employment. Given the limits on
land availability, most of the higher growth in employment and income in the rural areas will
come from non-agricultural sources.'5
60.    Real GDP growth will rise from around 5 percent in 2001 to 6 percent and 7 percent in
the subsequent two years, as highlighted in the medium-term macroeconomic framework of the 1-
PRSP. This will be driven by investment and exports, with domestic private investment rising to
around 11 percent of GDP and exports rising to around 50 percent of GDP.
61.    Private investment is expected to rise and move into labor-intensive manufacturing and
processed agricultural exports, the latter rendered more profitable by the measures under the
program. Recent expansion of private SMEs in response to several new measures (more than
14000 new registrations of SMEs in 2000 alone, compared to 3000 a year in the last three years)
have already raised private investment and employment.'6 Also, the resulting labor-reallocation to
off-farm activities and higher agricultural prices will raise productivity and average incomes for
the rural poor, more generally.
62.    All provinces participated in the recent rapid expansion of private SMEs. However, as
would be expected the most rapid growth has been in areas where poverty rates are not the
highest (see Figure 2).17
15 Like most other countries in Vietnam's situation there is limited potential for employment or productivity growth in
agriculture itself, though sustaining existing growth rates through diversification and processed agricultural exports will
be important under the program.
16 Domestic private firms growth in China over the 1990s shows what is possible. The number of private registered
firms in China rose from 100,000 in 1991 to more than a million in six years, with output and employment growing by
70 percent and 40 percent a year, respectively (see IFC 2000).
17 See Baulch (forthcoming) for estimates of poverty incidence in each of the 61 provinces.
29



Figure 2.       Distribution of New Registrations across Provinces 2000
I   250
200   5'                          -
0
150-- -         -- - - -
.4
zSO                  ~* *+*W;    f 
E
50
0        10        20         30        40        50        60         70        80
Poor as a percentage of population in province
a Data for HCMC and Hanoi excluded from chart due to scale. Registrations in these provinces were 3466 and 142.'
respectively.
Source: MPI's provincial reports of registrations and Baulch (forthcoming).
63.     An  important challenge will be to create a vibrant environment for SME  groxvth
throughout the country.'8 It will not only be necessary to address restrictions on migration mnd
inadequacy of infrastructure but also important to use public spending and other instrument.; to
ensure that the targeted area plans envisaged in the I-PRSP address the problems facing ti-ese
provinces and peoples.
64.     Price impact on consumption of poor. There will be no significant adverse impact on
the consumption of the poor. Though rice export quotas are being removed under the program,
the domestic retail price of rice is unlikely to rise given the continuing and projected declinm: in
the world price of rice. In fact, the domestic retail price of rice has fallen by more than 17 perk:ent
between 1998 and 2000. The AFTA tariff reductions are likely to reduce the prices of other f3od
products, as well as of clothing and footwear and so should be favorable for the poor households
consumption. 19
65.     Improvedprovision of social services. The program is expected to have a positive impact
on the overall provision of social sector services - indirectly, through higher revenue and savings
from  efficiency-gains in SOEs and SOCBs, and directly, through improved public expendi;ure
management. In addition, greater equity in the distribution of social spending will help the
poorest and most remote provinces more than others.
Of the 17 provinces reporting fewer than 25 registrations, 11 were from the Northern Highland region anc the
remainder from the Red River Delta (2), Mekong (2), Central Highlands (1) and South Central Coast (1).
19 Food products and clothing and footwear make up respectively 26 and 6 percent of total expenditure of the po )rest
quintile, and ASEAN tariffs on these products are expected to fall by 17 and 30 percentage points respectively. I the
domestic price of these products fell by the full amount of the tariff reduction, this would be equivalent to a real income
(purchasing power) increase of nearly 7 percent for the poorest quintile.
30



2. Mitigating Social Costs of Reform
66.    SOE and trade reform will increase efficiency and employment in the medium term, but
it will also lead to significant job losses in the short term. It is therefore important to have social
safety-nets for the poor and the vulnerable. Trade reform will reduce output and employment in
many protected enterprises just as it will raise output and employment in others, e.g., exports.
Evidence from many countries suggest that there is very little net change in employment
following trade reform.
67.    Based on a reasonably rigorous estimate, the labor redundancy that may be expected from
the proposed SOE reform program is unlikely to exceed 100,000 in any particular year (see Box 3
for the estimation method). However, once the QRs and tariffs come down under the AFTA
program in early 2003, there will be some loss in employment in certain industries, as cited
earlier. A recently-initiated study will examine the potential employment and income effect of
planned trade liberalization on the poor. The study's findings will be used to assess the need for
possible new mitigation measures.
Box 3: Estimation of Labor Redundancy due to SOE Reform
The extent of labor redundancy, hence the size of the safety net for which donor funding would be
needed, was estimated using plant-level data. A systematic comparison of employment levels across a
sample of 338 enterprises -- similar in many respects but different in the share of the capital that is
owned by the state -- was done to ascertain the likely reductions in employment as the share of the
state capital is reduced. The 338 enterprises in the sample are almost equally divided between state-
owned enterprises (Il 1), joint ventures between a foreign partner and the state (I 13), and privately
owned enterprises ( 114). The state share of capital is 100 percent for all enterprises in the first group,
and zero for all those in the third group. In the second group (joint ventures), the state share of capital
varies between 10.4 and 99.9 percent. Enterprises in the third group (private enterprises) are viewed as
"profit-maximizers" and the ones in the first group, as "profit-satisficers", implying different
employment and wage choices even for enterprises that are in the same sector and are similar in other
respects.
According to the estimates, if all state-owned enterprises were to instantly become profit-
maximizers, then roughly half of the workers in the state-owned enterprises of Vietnam would have to
be considered redundant. The estimates show that labor redundancy varies dramatically across sectors
of activity, from negligible in some to overwhelming in others. For example, labor redundancy is not a
serious concern in food, beverages, tobacco, paper products, footwear, bags and leather. At the other
end, labor redundancy is massive in transportation, oil and gas, construction and infrastructure, iron
and steel, coal and minerals, and machinery and equipment. Other sectors of activity fall in between
these two extremes. Since the SOEs to be liquidated, equitized or divested have not been identified it
is assumed that the enterprises with the lowest profit-to-capital ratio are liquidated first, and the
enterpises with the highest ratio are privatized first. It is also assumed that a fraction of the workers
who are on short-term or temporary contracts can be gradually replaced by perrnanent or long-term
contract workers. Under these assumptions, the reform program of Vietnam would require that some
400,000 workers be (voluntarily or involuntarily) separated from their jobs.
Source: Beiser, Patrick and Rama, Martin: "State Ownership and Labor Redundancy: Estimates from lietnam's
Enterprise Level Data f'Mimeo, World Bank November 2000)
31



68.    Supportfor Displaced Workers. The Government has already established an Enterprise
Restructuring Fund to assist and compensate displaced workers. It is currently financed by
proceeds from equitization, but is not yet operational. The regulations for its use are being
modified to increase its effectiveness. MOLISA will also issue regulations that allow tle
separation package for redundant workers to be more generous than the one stipulated by I le
Labor Code.
Box 4: The Underlying Analytical Work for Designing the Severance Package
In designing a safety net program for SOE reform it is essential to have information not only )n
the number of workers who could lose their jobs as a result of divestiture and restructuring (see Box ;).
but also on the loss in earnings and benefits these workers would experience as a result of separation. If
the aim of the program is to mitigate the social disruption created by SOE reform, the value of the
assistance provided to each redundant worker should be close to his or her expected loss from separation.
The expected loss thus provides a benchmark to assess the "fairness" of the program, as well as to predict
its total cost. However, there are no readily available estimates of the losses from separation, and self-
reporting is bound to fail as workers face an incentive to over-state the adverse impact of SOE reform.
On this background the expected losses from job separation were estimated using household-lev el
data. A database of workers whose main occupation is in an SOE was constructed based on individual
records from the 1998 Vietnam Living Standards Survey. An earnings function estimated over the entire
Vietnamese labor force allowed to predict the earnings of these SOE workers in the event of separatioin.
The prediction took into account individual characteristics such as for example age, gender, educational
attainment, work experience and region of residence. The fact that many SOE workers, could earn more if
they left the public sector, was used to infer the value of benefits such as better old-age earnings, more j ob
security, lower effort, etc. The value of those benefits was estimated at 56 percent of earnings. The loss
from separation was calculated, for each SOE worker in the database, as the present value of the loss in
earnings and benefits over years until retirement.
69.    The following modifications to the design of the Enterprise Restructuring Fund are bei ig
undertaken and are planned to be completed by mid of 2001:
*  The level of assistance to displaced or redundant SOE workers will be more generous
than the level currently stipulated by the Labor Code, in order to minimize the soc al
costs to workers.2" However, SOE's current obligations towards their workers will not be
increased, as all the additional financial assistance will be provided by the Enterprise
Restructuring Fund.
*   While most redundancies will be voluntary, in the sense of requiring agreement of bcth
the worker and the enterprise, provisions will be needed to handle job redundancies that
will necessarily be involuntary (e.g., in the context of liquidation).
*  There will be no difference in the level of assistance provided to redundant workers based
on the nature of the restructuring (i.e., same assistance for equitization, divestiture ald
liquidation). The same assistance will also be available to workers displaced by the
restructuring of SOEs remaining in Government hands, though only for workers in that
20 The Labor Code will remain the reference point for "normal" layoffs in the private sector, and for layoffs in state-
owned enterprises beyond the period of intensive reform (2001-05)
32



SOEs that satisfy the eligibility-conditions stipulated for debt-restructuring. Redundant
workers in post-equitized SOEs will also be eligible for assistance by the Enterprise
Restructuring Fund, but only during the 12 months after equitization.
*  Workers eligible for assistance from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund will not be on
short-term or temporary contracts, nor will they have been hired after 1998, i.e., after the
Prime Minister's Decision 20 was issued.21 SOEs will also not re-hire workers who
received assistance from the Enterprise Restructuring Fund, nor replace them by
members of their immediate family.
*  To encourage younger workers to move to the private sector, and to avoid penalizing
redundant female workers, the compensation package will have a substantial lump-sum
component. The package will include no more than two months of basic salary per year
of service (including current obligations under the Labor Code) and a lump-sum in the
range of 5 to 10 million VND, including costs for re-training.
*  The Enterprise Restructuring Fund will pay workers directly, or make sure that resources
intended to assist the redundant workers actually reach them and maintain records to that
effect. The Fund will not support re-training activities for workers who are not separated
from their jobs, nor other programs, such as micro-credit or wage subsidies, aimed at
promoting employment outside the public sector.
*  The Enterprise Restructuring Fund and the Government will monitor the operation of the
safety net at three levels: expenditures by the Fund; situation of the enterprises supported
by the Fund; and situation of the workers that receive assistance. This monitoring is
aimed at preventing rehiring, assessing whether the safety net leads to sustainable
reductions in over-staffing and increased enterprise productivity, at identifying potential
biases (e.g., by gender) in the composition of job separations, and at evaluating whether
the assistance received by separated workers is appropriate. This information will in turn
be used to adjust the design of the safety net over time.
70.    Gender-sensitivity of the severance program.  While the program does not have an
explicit gender component, the design of the safety net has included in an analysis of its gender
implications.  The severance package is designed in a way that reduces the gender bias
significantly (see Box 5).
21 The Prime Minister's Decision 20, deals with on various ways of restructuring SOEs.
33



Box 5: The Gender Implications of the Reform Program
Men and women may be affected differently by major economic reformns and. especially, by public
sector downsizing. In assessing the potential gender implications of Vietnam's reform program, f ve
aspects were considered: 1) Will women face better prospects to get salaried jobs? 2) How will the gender
gap in labor earnings be affected? 3) Are femaile SOE workers more likely to lose their jobs than malle
SOE workers? 4) Is there an implicit gender bias in existing programs to assist redundant workers, such as
early retirement and re-training? 5) Are some compensation packages more favorable to women than
others?
Data on employment and earnings from the 1992-93 and 1997-98 rounds of the Vietnam Living
Standards Survey were used to answer the first two questions. The changes that took place between these
two periods were heavily influenced by the reforms undertaken, and can be considered reasonable
predictors of what should happen as the reforms are deepened. Salaried employment is expanding at a f:ist
pace in formal enterprises in the private sector, where the share of female workers is much higher than in
SOEs. This expansion will be accelerated by the new wave of reforms.
The data on earnings suggest that economic reforns have substantially reduced the gender g3p.
Admittedly, retums to education are increasing, andD male workers have a slightly higher educational
attainment than female workers. But the "unexplained" gender gap in earnings decreased dramatically
between 1992-93 and 1997-98, both in SOEs and outside. This trend should continue in future, as reform-
induced market competition creates an incentive for enterprises to hire relatively "cheaper" female workers.
The sectoral correlation between the female share of employment and two indicators of over-
staffing was used to assess whether female workers are more likely to lose their jobs as a result of S()E
divestiture and restructuring. Unfortunately, information on employment at the SOE level is not available
by gender. But estimates of labor redundancy at the sector level constructed using plant-level data (see
Box 3), can be matched with estimates of the female share of employment, constructed using household-
level data. This matching reveals that the most over-staffed sectors, such as construction, transportation,
mining and heavy industry, are also the ones with the largest shares of male employment. Conversely,
some of the "leanest" sectors, like food, beverages, and garments, rely much more on female employment.
The sectors with the higher shares of female employment also display a larger proportion of their personnel
on short-term contracts. Workers on short-tern contracts are less likely to be redundant than workers on
permanent, or long-term contracts. Overall, it thus appears that women's jobs in SOEs could be less at risk
than men's.
As regards existing programs to assist redundant workers, no evidence of a strong gender bias was
uncovered. The net transfer of resources from the early retirement program is larger for eligible male
workers if it is measured in monetary terms, but it is similar for men and for women if measured as a
proportion of their earnings in SOEs. Also, the current offer of re-training programs does not seem to be
biased against women.
Finally, the acceptability for men and women of compensation packages based on different formulas
was evaluated based on the estimated loss in earnings and benefits from job separation (see Box 4).
Simulations were run with three types of packages: a multiple of the salary in the SOE, a number of months
of salary per year of service, and a lump-sum. Based on these simulations, efforts will be made to ensure
that the assistance package adopted by Government for the downsizing of its SOEs has an important lumip-
sum component. An additional safeguard against major losses for workers, other than those resulting fram
miscalculation, is voluntariness, though some job separations will necessarily be involuntary (e.g.. in the
event of liquidation).
Source: Rama Martin: "The Gender Implications of Public Sector Downsizing: the Reform Program of Vietn=  "
(Mimeo, World Bank February. 2001).
34



3. Likely Fiscal Impact of Reforms
71.     The fiscal stance was eased in 2000. The overall deficit (excluding on-lending) was 2
percent of GDP compared to 1 percent in 1999. Total revenue exceeded the budgeted level
largely due to increases in oil prices, providing scope for a rise in the wage bill and in capital
expenditure. However, non-oil revenue performance remained weak, and including on-lending,
the budgetary position was expansionary.
72.    The actual costs of the reform  program can be absorbed by the budget, given cautious
easing of fiscal policy and prospective external budget support (see Box 6). While capital costs
of reform will be substantial, the current cost - the annual charge on the budget - will be around I
percent of GDP a year. These estimates are based on the Government's current numbers. As
more complete assessments of the extent of NPLs become available, after the planned audits of
the SOCBs in 2001, more precise estimates will be made.
73.    Additional Fiscal Measures. In any case, it will be necessary to strengthen tax collection
through further reforms to the VAT. On the expenditure side, the size and composition of the civil
service needs to be geared to limiting the overall growth in the wage bill and domestic petroleum
prices need to be adjusted upwards to avoid explicit budget subsidies, so as to keep other
expenditures under control.
Box 6: Fiscal Costs of SOE and Banking Reform
Tentative estimates of cumulative total cost over the program period are projected to be 12 percent of GDP,
comprising of.
SOE reform
*   The capital costs are tentatively estimated to total 2 percent of GDP1. mostly in the form of absorbing non-
performing loans (NPLs) owed by SOEs to be equitized or restructured. They also include the cost of resolving
losses in market value of physical assets, and dealing with bad debt of SOEs not covered under the current
equitization plan (but are to be equitized in the future). T'he NPLs of SOEs that are not slated for reform will be
dealt with through SOCB reform.
*   The current costs are estimated at 2 percent of GDP. These costs cover mainly severance payments to redundant
workers.
Banking reform
*   The capital costs are estimated to total 7 percent of GDP. which would arise from the provisioning for remaining
NPLs in the SOCBs owed by SOEs, from raising the capital-asset ratio of SOCBs to international standards. and
restructuring the joint stock banks.
*   The current cost of banking reform is estimated at I percent of GDP. mostly in the form of interest for newly
issued government bonds to finance the capital costs.
In 2001 the capital costs of SOE and banking sector reforms are estimated at about 1.75 percent of GDP. mainly
related to clearing frozen SOE loans. provisioning for a small share of unrecoverable NPLS and restructuring JSBs.
Total current costs amount to about 0.75 percent of GDP.
Under this reform scenario and with the curtailment of new SOE losses and growth of SOE debt, the public sector
debt dynamrics would remain manageable. Currently, the level of public sector debt of Vietnam is low including bank
debt of SOEs, The government's domestic debt is estimated to be 63 percent of GDP, and the external debt is all on
concessional terms. Reformning the SOE sector would result in the government taking on some SOF debt. which by
itself would not increase the level of debt of the public sector significantly. Public sector debt would rise through 2003
to 2004, and begin to stabilize thereafter.
35



74.    External Financing Requirements. The external financing requirements are likely to
rise over the next three years, because domestic investment and resulting imports are expected to
pick up in response to the Program, especially imports for large oil and gas projects and for
domestic investment. There are also fiscal costs of the reform program22 (see Box 6). Thol.gh
reforms will improve competitiveness and attract FDI, the current account deficit will average :!-3
percent of GDP during this period. For 2001, the external financing gap will be fully covered, but
there will be need for additional financing in the subsequent two years.
IV. BANK GROUP'S STRATEGY AND OTHER DONORS
A. BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
75.   Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).  As noted, the Bank Grouo's
program in Vietnam has been designed to support Vietnam's transition to a more efficient,
market-based development path, with a strong emphasis on social equity, poverty reduction and
rural development. The last full CAS, prepared during the East Asian crisis was build around :he
Government's agenda of "restoring the momentum of growth, and improving the quality of
development". The CAS laid out a program of support of lending and advisory work across :he
key sectors that were constraining Vietnam's development. While continuing the Bank's support
for the rehabilitation and new investment in infrastructure, more focus was given to ensuring that
access to physical and human infrastructure was provided for the poorer parts of Vietnam and the
poorer segments of the population. Investment in rural development, and in livelihood-enhanc ng
investments was also increased. The scale of the program was strongly differentiated according to
progress on the policy agenda and on implementing the Bank Group's portfolio, with annual ID)A
lending ranging from below US$300 million (Low case) rising to US$800 million (High case),
and a base case of around US$500 million. In the event, as noted in the CAS Progress Report
(May 2000), lending has tended to lie between the Base and the Low cases, due to a number of
reasons, including slower than anticipated preparation of the reform agenda.
76.   The CAS included a series of three adjustment operations under the High case, beginn ing
with a Structural Adjustment Credit (the second in Vietnam) a Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit, and a Rural Sector Adjustment Credit. These were all directed at addressing the
fundamental development constraints in Vietnam. Of central importance is the need to unleash
the creative power of all Vietnamese citizens, including the private sector, which has until now
been operating in a relatively difficult environment. This in turn requires that current weaknesses
in the banking and state enterprise sectors be addressed, together with the creation of a m rre
competitive environment. As detailed below, Vietnam has already met most of the triggers for
the High case and with the reforms being considered in this operation it will be well on its v.ay
towards meeting the remaining triggers. The next CAS, based on the full PRSP, will elaborate on
further reforms and spell out the strategy for meeting the poverty reduction program, or
accelerating it in the High case.
77.   Status of CAS Triggers. The CAS included "triggers" under which Vietnam woald
become eligible for High case lending. The triggers for the High case have been met for
macroeconomic management, banking reform, SOE policy, private sector development, poverty
and social equity policies. They have not been met on trade policy. Specifically the initial trigaer
22 The balance of payments effect is projected to account for the dominant part of the extemal financing gap; the
estimated fiscal costs, while substantial, are smaller than that.
36



requiring that all QRs should be converted to tariffs, and that the maximum tariff should be
lowered to 40 percent have not been met. Appropriate QR removal and tariff reduction are
included as conditions in this proposed operation. Other measures in trade policy - especially
Vietnam's obligations under the USBTA, such as those applying to trade in services, intellectual
property rights, and trading rights - have been stronger than anticipated. In the Bank's judgment,
this warrants High case lending. The triggers relating to IDA's portfolio have been half met. The
share of projects that are rated as "problem" remains below 25 percent, but the disbursement rate
has not yet reached 20 percent as had been hoped. Partly for this reason, we are not planning to
increase the scale of lending to the full High case level (of over US$800 million) even with this
proposed operation. Current plans call for IDA lending of US$ 545 million (including the PRSC)
in FY01 and US$570 million in FY 02.
B. PARTNERSHIPS WITH OTHER DONORS AND AGENCIES
78.   Coordination with IMF. The IMF and the World Bank have been conducting tripartite
meetings with the Government since April 1998.  Under the framework of enhanced
collaboration, the two institutions have done joint reports, launched numerous parallel missions,
and conducted tripartite discussions on policy with the Government. The Bank has been leading
on banking, state-enterprises, micro-aspects of trade policy, public expenditure issues and of
course on poverty analysis, while the Fund has been leading on monetary, fiscal and balance-of-
payments issues. IMF efforts have also focused on the design and monitoring of critical
macroeconomic aspects of banking, SOE, and trade reforms. The Bank and the Fund have had
joint consultations with the Government on various drafts of the I-PRSP. Overall, the Bank and
the Fund have worked closely to coordinate the policy actions under the parallel PRSC and PRGF
programs and to minimize the extent of overlap in the two programs.
79.    Coordination with ADB. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has an on-going
Corporate Governance adjustment loan which supports the implementation of the Enterprise Law,
the listing of equitized SOEs on the stock exchange and improvements in corporate governance of
SOEs. We have worked together with them while developing the PRSC program in particular on
the Enterprise Law, to ensure a high degree of complementarity between their program and the
program supported by the PRSC. In addition to a joint portfolio review that we recently
conducted with ADB (and JBIC), we have agreed to prepare our upcoming CAS in parallel with
the ADB's country strategy, including joint consultations with key stakeholders.
80.   Cooperation with JBIC. Japan has supported Vietnam's reform program with financing
under the Miyazawa initiative before the PRSC and PRGF were negotiated. Since earlyl999, the
World Bank team has worked jointly with the Japanese missions to Vietnam and provided inputs
into the development of their program that was supported under the first Miyazawa operation in
1999. That operation supported the formulation and implementation of a private sector action
plan, especially for SMEs, as well as the plan for diagnostic audits of large state-enterprises, both
of which complements the PRSC program.
81.   Co-financiers of the PRSC. Four bilateral donors expect to co-finance the PRSC. The
United Kingdom and Denmark have already fielded missions to discuss the reform program and
their financial support with the Government of Vietnam. The Netherlands and Sweden have
confirmed their co-financing, and plan to process their support soon after IDA Board approval.
These co-financiers have a particularly important role to play in (i) providing grant financing as a
complement to IDA's loan funds; (ii) supporting technical assistance for the detailed
implementation of the reform; and (iii) engaging in and supporting the policy dialogues. The
37



cofinanciers have played in especially important role in bringing an emphasis to the sccial
dimensions of reform. They have also provided important technical assistance in the preparation
of the reform (see below).
82.    TechnicalAssistance. Technical assistance (TA) grants to support the technical work for
the formulation and initial implementation of the reform program have been and are being
provided by Australia, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland
and the U.K. among others. Many of those grants are administered by the World Bank see
Annex 8). The UNDP is providing technical support to the development and implementatio i of
the program in equitization, in developing a management information system for SOEs, in tiade
and in private sector legal framework. The ADB has provided grant support for formulating and
implementing the program on state and private enterprises. Several donors have committed to
finance the next round of TA grants for implementation of the reform program and these offers
are being coordinated by the World Bank through the joint Donor-Government-NGO wor}iing
groups.
83.   Donor-Government-NGO Working Groups on Economic Reform. The establishmer t of
joint working groups of donors, Government and international non-governmental-organizat ons
(NGOs) has helped to carry the discussions on Government's plans for reforms to a wider graup.
With the formation of these groups on banking, state-enterprises, trade, private SMEs and public
expenditure, there is now an opportunity for donors to engage in discussions on reform with
Government counterparts on an ongoing basis. Such an arrangement is also helping to en,ure
coherence across donors' programs of support, and to mobilize funding for high priority tasl;s in
each area. In November 2000, these groups produced Notes on the ten-year socioeconomic
development strategy, all of which were presented to the Consultative Group MeetinE, in
December 2000.
V. THE POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
A. CREDIT PREPARATION
84.   ESW Underpinnings. The Bank has completed a series of relevant core diagnostic work
as background analytical support that fed into the preparation of the proposed credit. The miost
recent reports include: Vietnam 2010: Entering the 21st Century, November 29, 2000 (JDint
World Bank, ADB and UNDP); Vietnam: Managing Public Resources Better: P1ablic
Expenditure Review 2000, December 13, 2000 (Joint government and donor report); Viet,iam
Development Report 2000: Attacking Poverty, November 15, 1999 (Joint government, doliors
and NGOs), Vietnam. Preparing for Take-Off November 30, 1999 and Vietnam: Pri ,ate
Solutions for Infrastructure Development December 1999. In addition, a joint World Bank-A DB
Country Financial Accountability Assessment is currently being discussed and is expected to be
finalized in May 2001 and a draft Country Procurement Review is expected to be finalized in
June 2001. These series of reports on poverty, economic reform and sector performance serv.- as
a solid base of knowledge on which to develop appropriate strategies and design relevant
measures for poverty reduction. The PER and CFAA also contribute to the development of scund
fiduciary policies and institutions critical to the management of a market-oriented economy with
emphasis on accessibility of public services and equitable opportunities for the poor and
vulnerable sector of the population.
85.   The World Bank's approach in preparing this Credit was to support the Vietnamese
policymakers in accessing international experience with reform and in doing detailed analysis of
38



the Vietnam-specific situation in order to understand the available options and to make
appropriate choices. This approach proved quite useful, given the limited in-country experience
and expertise on the market-economy and on structural reform. The various inter-ministerial
committees that the Government had established since mid-1998 analyzed the state-enterprise
sector performance, assessed the health and operations of the banking system and examined
alternative paths to a more open trade regime. The World Bank's team responded to many
questions and concerns by sharing studies on other countries, by organizing seminars, and by
fielding numerous small technical missions focussing on one or two issues, some of them in
parallel with IMF missions.
86.    The Bank also supported the technical analysis of SOEs, banks and trade policy issues
that technical staff of ministries sought to do. Technical advice was provided directly to the
Government to support the development of their multi-year reform  program.23 Government
officials and policy makers then held their own internal workshops for provincial officials and
other members of the top political leadership, especially in the Party (see Box 7). Nationwide
conferences were also held in particular on the SOE reform plan.
Box 7: Consensus-Building on Reforms in Vietnam
Consensus-building in Vietnam has been carried out at two levels. One level consisted of
interactions between Bank-Fund staff and international experts on the one hand and Vietnamese
policymakers in the ministries, in relevant agencies like commercial banks, state-enterprises, trade
unions, research institutes and chambers of commerce on the other. The second level of consensus-
building consisted of Government-directed and organized internal discussions with political leaders and
officials of provinces, and party and National Assembly members.
The first level included international workshops on all five components of the program, including
the social safety net. These workshops have been very important in exposing policyrnakers and staff of
the Government agencies to international experience. In addition, they permnitted smaller expert
roundtables to brainstorm jointly on specific sub-issues of each component e.g.. size of severance-
package, phased re-capitalization of SOCBs, loan-loss provisioning and classification. policy banks,
restructuring of large enterprises, processes for equitization, non-tariff trade barriers in selected sectors.
advantages of the US trade agreement, and so on. These have been helpful in creating a core group of
mid-level and senior level Vietnamese policymakers that have a good understanding of the rationale of
the reform program and the reasons for choosing from alternative measures for achieving an objective.
The second level of consensus-building has been particularly important to spread this
understanding to a much larger number of people and leaders across the country. The fact that a core
group of Vietnamese policymakers were leading this effort in explaining the reforms to a broader cross-
section helped it to be more credible. Workshops and discussions took long - and created a lot of
controversy intemally - but they helped to develop the much needed consensus for the medium term
program of reformn that was finally adopted. This process was particularly useful for SOE reform, the
trade road map, and the SOCB restructuring, all initially controversial.
87.    In addition, foreign consultants were provided - using bilateral grants of technical
assistance - to help analyze newly available data on state-enterprises and banks, to examine the
effects of quantitative import restrictions (QRs) on specific sub-sectors subject to QRs, to fund
diagnostic audits of large SOEs and banks, to analyze and develop the safety net for SOE workers
23 The Bank's Reports - "Rising to the Challenge " (1998), "Attacking Poverty" (1999) and "Preparingfor Take-off'
(1999) - showed why reforms were the binding constraint on faster growth and poverty reduction and laid out the
likely content of a sequenced multi-year reform program based on inputs from Government committees and ministries.
39



and to support the committees on bank restructuring and banking supervision. Finally, the IFC
has initiated on-the-ground support for equitization programs in Haiphong and Dac Lac
provinces.
88.   Bank Group Support to Private Sector Development. Support for the creation of a better
environment for private sector development was provided through a coordinated Bank Groulp
approach. The creation of the Private Sector Forum, managed by the IFC and co-chaired by tht-
Government and the World Bank, which meets prior to the annual and mid-term meetings of the
Consultative Group, has facilitated genuine dialogue with the private sector. FIAS has givell
advisory services on foreign investment promotion and the Bank has recently completed a major
review of obstacles to the private provision of infrastructure (World Bank, 1999). The Bank
Group has been active in supporting private SME investment mainly through the Mekong Project
Development Facility (MPDF). MPDF's work with the SME private sector has been especially
promising: it is currently providing technical support to about 30 SMEs each year, i;
implementing a broad training program for SME managers and bank lending to SMEs and
supporting the market in the provision of business development services.
B. TRANCHES AND CONDITIONS
89.   Tranches. This credit supports a series of upfront actions and future proposed action;
agreed to by the government, in accordance with the I-PRSP, the CAS, and the government',
Ten-Year Socio-economic Development Strategy. This proposed credit of US$250 million will
be disbursed in two tranches of US$100 million and US$150 million respectively. The first
tranche will be available for disbursement following Board approval and upon credit
effectiveness, and the second tranche is expected to be released around 12 months thereafter,
provided the actions cited in paragraph 98 are completed. The choice of two tranches wa,
selected to provide continued financial support to the Government of Vietnam during 2001 and
2002 while the full PRSP is being prepared. Financial support for 2003 and 2004 would be based
on the full PRSP in accordance with the strategy to be laid out in the next CAS.
90.   Up front Actions. The Government has taken the following actions to implement it,
medium term reform program:
a. Approved the Enterprise Law and removed business licenses in 145 different trades,
industries and services to facilitate entry of private firms;
b. Revised the Foreign Investment Law to permit, amongst other things, automatiz
registration of export oriented investments and government guarantees for large projects;
c. Completed equitization of more than 450 SOEs, with around 290 major equitizations (i.e.
selling more than 65 percent shares to non-state shareholders with the state havin,
dominant or special shares);
d. Established a National Development Support Fund and a separate bank for social policy
lending as the first step in phasing out policy lending from SOCBs;
e. Closed 3 JSBs, merged 2 and placed 13 JSBs under special control of the SBV;
f. Adopted the AFTA road map where tariffs on most tariff lines of ASEAN imports are
scheduled to be reduced to 20 percent by early 2003 and to 5percent by early 2006;
40



g. Liberalized trading rights for all domestic enterprises and expanded trading rights of
foreign-invested enterprises;
h. Removed QRs multilaterally from following 8 product groups i.e. liquid soda, plastic
packaging, electric fans, bicycles, DOP plasticizer, fertilizer, sanitaryware, ceramic
goods;
i. Completed the second Public Expenditure Review (PER), finalized detailed timetable for
implementing its recommendations over the next two years, and initiated preparation for
implementing an integrated public financial management project to address the key
weakness identified in the PER and the on-going CFAA;
j.  Adopted a comprehensive five-year SOE reform program with annual targets for three
years in respect of enterprise-specific measures covering a third of all SOEs;
k. Adopted a comprehensive SOCB restructuring framework and a detailed restructuring
plan for Vietcombank, one of the four large SOCBs that are to have such plans, for
implementation under the Program;
1. Adopted a timetable for removing QRs multilaterally on all tariff lines of the following
product groups by early 2003: cement, remaining steel products, construction glass,
paper, vegetable oil and ceramic and granite tiles.
91.    Actions to Be Taken Prior to Second Tranche Release. The Government will have
implemented the Program, achieved a satisfactory macroeconomic framework consistent with
that in the I-PRSP and completed the following actions, prior to the release of the second tranche:
a. Removed or modified business licenses of at least 50 trades, industries and services, so
that entry in those sub-sectors is eased;
b. Streamlined the equitization process: to expand capital and security markets, to remove
existing ceilings on shareholdings by individuals and legal entities in equitized state-
owned enterprises (SOEs), to improve transparency of the process, and to move
responsibility for issuing, selling and registering shares out of individual SOE's
management;
c. Completed major equitizations (i.e., selling more than 65 percent of shares to non-State
shareholders and having no dominant or special State shares), sale under Decree No. 103-
1999-ND-CP of September 10, 1999 on Transfer, Sale, Management Contract and Lease
of State Enterprises, or liquidation of at least 200 SOEs, with the equitized and sold SOEs
operating and existing under the Enterprise Law;
d. Completed minor equitizations (i.e., sales of shares with the State having dominant or
special shares) of at least 200 SOEs, with the equitized SOEs operating and existing
under the Enterprise Law;
e. Adopted detailed restructuring plans for Seaprodex, Vinatex and Vinacafe General
Corporations (GCs), including a timetable of specific actions to be taken to improve
corporate governance and competitiveness of key SOEs in these GCs (de-regulation of
entry into SOE subsectors, new corporate governance mechanisms for the GCs,
equitization or sale of non-core assets, liquidation of non-viable operations, installation of
41



appropriate accounting and management information systems) and specific operational
targets for cost-reduction and revenue growth;
f. Modified the design of the fund established to finance the social safety net for stati -
owned enterprise workers, put the fund as modified into operation with dedicated staff mr
adequate numbers and completed a review and written report on the disbursemert
performance of the fund;
g. Removed Quantitative Restrictions vis-a-vis all countries, from all tariff lines for clink r
and paper, replacing them with tariffs where necessary and appropriate;
h. Adopted  restructuring plans for four state-owned commercial banks (Vietnarm
Commercial Bank (VCB), Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Developmer t
(VBARD), Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) and Industrial an I
Commercial Bank of Vietnam (ICBV) in accordance with the key principles of State
Bank of Vietnam's State-owned Commercial Bank restructuring framework, an I
achieved the first year milestones in the said restructuring plan;
i. Closed nine joint-stock banks (JSBs) under State Bank of Vietnam intervention ani
ensured compliance of all remaining JSBs with existing regulations;
j.  Amended Decision No. 284/2000/QD-NHNNI of August 25, 2000 Issuing Regulation cnI
Lending to Clients of Credit Institutions to bring criteria for loan-classification by bank-s
in accordance with international practice, and initiated implementation of revised criteria
for classification of non-performing loans as well as for their provisioning:
k. Completed audits of financial statements for the 2000 fiscal year of VCB, VBARD',
BIDV and ICBV in accordance with international auditing and accounting standards by
international auditors acceptable to the Association and furnished said audits to the
Association;
1. Improved transparency and reliability of national budgetary information by designatin 
the Borrower's State Treasury as the agency responsible for a comprehensiv.e
management information system for government expenditures and by publishing sector.l
breakdowns of at least 75 percent of total government spending.
C. IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
92.   To facilitate the PRSC program design, the Government is planning to establish a hig-
level inter-ministerial coordination committee to monitor progress and implementation of refornis
especially for the first year of this program. Beyond that, the monitoring mechanism for the
PRSC program as a whole will be reviewed during the formulation of the full PRSP to ensure th, t
there is adequate participation from all relevant quarters.
93.   Monitoring Arrangements. Vietnam continues to make good use of information an I
analysis in its policy making and the development of individual components of the PRSC
program. The formulation of the recent ten-year Strategy bears testimony to that fact. The PRS(?
will continue to build on this experience, streamlining the numerous ongoing monitoring ani
evaluation initiatives. Key sources of monitoring information for poverty and program outcomes
will include the proposed biannual household living standard survey, periodic participatory
poverty assessments, the small business registration survey, public expenditure tracking survey,
42



as well as the quarterly progress reports from the relevant sector ministries and committees
implementing the reform program in the five areas cited in Section III. In addition, the
strengthening of management information systems for SOEs and for all public spending, both led
by the MOF, is an integral part of the PRSC program.
94.   Supervision of the first PRSC Monitoring and supervision of this operation will take
place in close collaboration with the IMF. The Government has agreed to provide formal six-
monthly reports to the Bank, on the progress made in each component of the program. In
addition, there will be a joint quarterly review meeting to assess progress more frequently and
take special actions where necessary.
D. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
95.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower is the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and
this operation is a two-tranche Credit of US$250 million equivalent that would be made available
upon credit effectiveness.
96.   Disbursement, Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The Credit will follow IDA's
disbursement procedures for adjustment operations, and the Credit proceeds will be disbursed in
compliance with the stipulated release conditions. Various measures have been taken to ensure
that the overall fiduciary policies and institutions are adequate to proceed with support from IDA
and other development partners. The ESW underpinnings for the operation are largely complete:
(i) the cross-cutting assessment of the country's development policies (social, structural and key
sectoral) covering the policy reforms and institutional development priorities for sustainable
growth and poverty reduction has been discussed with the government in a number of recent joint
reports; (ii) an assessment of the country financial accountability arrangements has been made in
the recent Public Expenditure Review and the draft Country Financial Accountability Assessment
and the Country Procurement Review. Disbursement will not be linked to any specific purchases
and no procurement requirements will have to be satisfied.
97.   Deposit Account. The Borrower will open and maintain in the SBV, a dedicated Deposit
Account in US dollars for the Borrower's use once the Credit is approved by the Board. If after
deposit in the Deposit Account the proceeds of the Credit or any part thereof are used for
ineligible purposes, as defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Bank will require the
Borrower to either return that amount to the Deposit Account to be used for eligible purposes, or
refund the amount directly to IDA. The Deposit Account of SBV will be independently audited
each year on terms of reference already agreed with IDA.
98.   All US dollar disbursements out of the Deposit Account will be executed by the SBV in
accordance with its existing rules and should be monitorable by the World Bank. Since SBV does
not import directly, it will sell this foreign currency to commercial banks that will execute the
imports. These banks in turn, would open separate deposit accounts from which they will finance
the eligible imports and maintain those accounts for review by the SBV.
99.   Through the SBV the Borrower will: (i) report the exact sum received into the Deposit
Account; (ii) ensure that all withdrawals are for "eligible" expenditures; (iii) indicate to IDA
details of the account of the MOF which is part of the consolidated fund of the treasury to which
the Vietnamese Dong equivalent of the Credit proceeds will be credited; (iv) submit a report on
receipts and disbursements for the Deposit Account.
43



100.  The processes and controls described above are intended to provide assurance that IDA
funds have arrived at their intended destination and are being used for their intended purposes,
and are subject to the Borrowers' rules and regulations.
101.  Country  Financial Accountability  Assessment. The recent Country  Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA) on Vietnam, conducted in partnership with the Asiani
Development Bank, (report under preparation) concluded that the public financial management
system compares well with other countries but nevertheless represents a level of fiduciary risk.
The Government has agreed with the main recommendations of the Bank's CFAA-mission --
including the provision of more timely within-year information for closer monitoring and
capacity-building for strengthening institutional accountability -- and an action plan has beeni
prepared by the CFAA report which complements the one by the PER. The Government will
implement the action plans under the planned IDA project on integrated public financial
management. In addition an Institutional Development Fund (IDF) grant is supporting capacit)
building in accounting and auditing, building upon a program of support financed by the
European Union.
102.  Public Procurement. Vietnam's public procurement system has undergone rapid change
in recent years. Nationwide competitive bidding was introduced by a Government decree in 1996.
This system was improved in 1999, by the introduction of the concept of the "responsive lowesT:
evaluated bid". And a new Procurement Ordinance, designed with the assistance of a World Bank
IDF grant, will be introduced in the next twelve months, bringing Vietnam much closer to
international standards. A recent Government study has shown that savings of US$300-40f'
million per year have been achieved as a result of the introduction of competitive bidding under
tightly monitored procedures. The Government has expressed strong concern about corruptior.
and, in 1998, introduced a corruption ordinance. A Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) is nearing completion, which lays out the needs for capacity building over the coming
years in public procurement.
103.  Environmental Assessment. The proposed PRSC is a structural adjustment credit ir
support of a collection of diverse reform and policy support activities and the requirements of
OD 8.60 apply. Initiatives such as private sector reform, SOE reform, trade liberalization, anc
public sector management have potential implications for environmental quality as well a,
government's capacity to address future environmental risks. The Vietnam 2010 Report contain,
a thorough review of government's environmental priorities and identifies key program areas.
104.  Government has developed a regulatory framework for environmental assessment.
standards and compliance monitoring but additional work is still needed to improve thiC.
framework and to strengthen implementation capacity. Though its present field level capacity ii
limited, the Government of Vietnam appears committed to undertaking a substantive program ol
environmental capacity building, institutional strengthening, environmental and land use planninE
as well as physical investment projects addressing environmental issues. Donor support for
national environmental programs is strong and covers a diverse range of initiatives across mans
sectors.
105.  In collaboration with the key government counterparts, the World Bank is currently
developing in-country programs targeting environmental and social safeguards capacity building
activities across the entire country portfolio. As part of those programs, further analytical wort.
Key donors active in the environment include the ADB, EU, JBIC, and Canada, Denmark and Sweden in addition to
the World Bank.
44



will be carried out to monitor and evaluate the impact of land use rights, trade liberalization, SOE
reform and bank loan environmental screening. The Borrower has indicated its intention to carry
out environmental audits as part of preparation for SOE equitization, where appropriate. Annual
budget reviews will assess the adequacy of key environmental agencies' operating budgets.
Periodic Bank supervision will include participation by an appropriate environmental specialist.
E. BENEFITS AND RISKS
106..  Benefits. There are four key benefits from this programmatic PRSC. First, in conjunction
with the approval of the IMF's PRGF, this will signal Vietnam's intention to continue with policy
and institutional reforms in order to restore higher growth and rapid poverty-reduction. Second, it
will promote greater intemal and external competition and reduce waste in all enterprises
including state-enterprises. Third, it will improve transparency and accountability in respect of
SOEs, banks and the budget. Fourth, it will promote increased investment and exports, especially
private investment and manufactured exports and create additional employment.
107.  Risks. There are several risks that need to be mitigated. These risks relate to the potential
for erosion of political support for reforms, insufficient institutional capacity for timely and
appropriately sequenced implementation of the program, and rising costs of bank re-
capitalization.
108.   Existing political support for the medium-term  reform  program  could erode as
implementation proceeds and resistance develops from those who lose or if the distribution of
gains from reforms are not distributed sufficiently equitably across the population and the
regions. At the same time, measures already taken - like the liberalization of trading rights for all
firms, the Enterprise Law, and the announced commitments under AFTA and USBTA - are
unlikely to be reversed, given the excessively high cost in terms of international reputation and
domestic credibility that would result from such reversal. Nevertheless, a slowdown in the
planned pace of reforms is possible if political support wanes. It is thus important to ensure that
the social safety net scheme is effective and that growth and poverty outcomes are monitored
closely.
109.   Weak institutional and human capacity suggests risks to the pace of implementation.
Simultaneous implementation of policy and institutional reforms in five different areas involving
different ministries and agencies is a major challenge for any country, but perhaps more so in
Vietnam, where experience and expertise in market-oriented reform is limited. On-going and
planned technical assistance grants from donors will complement existing domestic capacity and
fill gaps in specific skills, thereby mitigating this risk to some extent. Nevertheless,
implementation of SOE reform remains particularly vulnerable, because its actual execution is
fragmented across numerous line ministries, people's committees and boards of General
Corporations, as well as individual SOE managers. The national committee on SOE reform is a
sufficiently high-level committee commanding respect, but its staff and organization will have to
be strengthened considerably.
110.   There is also the risk of insufficient higher level coordination and thus the risk of
inappropriate sequencing of individual components of the package. If SOE reform does not
proceed expeditiously in sectors that are being opened up to foreign competition in the next two
years, potentially viable enterprises can go under or if they are kept afloat they can threaten banks
and the budget. Similarly restructured banks will not stay healthy if SOE reform is not
successfully completed in the first three years and a vibrant private sector fails to emerge.
45



Without a sufficient number of commercially viable enterprises both state-owned and private
commercial banks cannot maintain their financial health. If liquidation or bankruptcy laws and
regulations are not streamlined quickly, actual liquidation of SOEs and private firms will drag on.
leading to asset-striping and loss of value as has happened in other countries. Thus use of high-
level coordination mechanism that the government plans to establish soon will be key tc
mitigating this risk.
111.   There is a risk of a significant rise in the costs of re-capitalization of SOCBs if the actual
pace of SOE and banking reform slows down or if future bank lending is not more prudential.
This is mitigated to a large degree by phased and conditional re-capitalization of SOCBs, and
greater accountability of SOCB management for performance. SOCBs will have to adopt specific
reform actions and achieve strict targets for the NPL-share in new loans, to be verified each year
through independent IAS audits, before annual tranches of re-capitalization funds are provided b)
the Government to the SOCBs. The fact that ceilings on credit expansion is part of the
Govemment program also helps to cap the risk.
112.  The adverse short-term social impact of reforms on SOE workers (including female
workers) have been explicitly analyzed and recognized in the program, but more work is planned
in respect of trade reforms. Results from the analysis of the impact of planned trade reforms on
various segments of the poor will be available next year and since significant trade reform
measures are not expected until early 2003 this poses no additional risk. Also, the revival of
private sector investment, employment, exports and output is likely to come in slightly ahead of
any significant contraction of employment and output in the SOE sector.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
113.   1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by: Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
April 23, 2001
46



March 20, 2001
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Vietnam has adopted an economic reform program for 2001-2003
period with the objective of restoring high and sustained growth and poverty reduction. This
Letter of Development Policy (LDP) lays out the Government's objectives and policies in its
three year reform program and seeks financial support from the World Bank's Poverty Reduction
Support Credit (PRSC). This three-year program is an integral part of the Government's ten-
year draft Socioeconomic Development Strategy and its Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper or the I-PRSP. The attached Policy Matrix indicates the specific measures that have been
taken so far, as well as those that will be implemented within the first 12 months of this three-
year program.
1I. BACKGROUND
2.    The "Doi moi" program, initiated in the late 1980s, succeeded in raising economic
growth rates and in reducing poverty very significantly.  Between 1992 and 1997, the
Vietnamese economy grew at an average annual rate of 8.7 percent and poverty fell from 57
percent to 38 percent of the population (according to the World Bank's standards). Investment
rose from 8.6 percent in the late 1980s to 30.9 percent in 1997 and exports grew at an average
rate of 28.9 percent each year. Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows rose continuously,
peaking at $2 billion a year during the 1995-97 period.
3.    Recent Development. However, growth slowed in 1998 and 1999, due largely to the
impact of the regional crisis and recession but also because of declining growth effects of the
first phase of reforms. The growth rate of export earnings declined sharply in 1998, and foreign
investment inflows dropped in 1998 and 1999. Domestic demand fell and unemployment,
especially urban unemployment, rose substantially.



4.    A recovery has been underway since the second half of 1999, supported by strong export
performance as well as expansionary monetary and fiscal policies. Real GDP growth rose this
year after declining for the last two, with non-agricultural GDP growth recovering after three
years of decline. Domestic private investment is also showing signs of recovery. Although FDI
remains lower than it was prior to 1997, there is a sign of improvement. In both 1999 anc 2000,
export earnings have grew by more than 20 percent, because of significant increases in export
prices of oil, diversification in structure of exported goods, and rapid increase in export of non-
oil products such as garments, footwear, sea foods, electronics, cashew nuts, and hand crafts.
Domestic credit grew by 20 percent and 38.14 percent in 1999 and 2000 respectively. Fiscal
deficit has also expanded to more than 2 percent of GDP in those years, more than tw ce the
average of earlier years due to an expanded investment program.
5.    This recovery is in response to the reforms we have implemented over the last two years.
The measures taken so far have sought to maintain macroeconomic stability, to integrate v ith the
world economy and to continue the transition to a market-oriented economy, the latter by
creating a more favorable environment for the private sector as well as by initiating refo -ms of
state-owned-enterprises (SOEs) and banks.
6.    Ten-Year Strategy. Our ten-year Socioeconomic Development Strategy, currentl) under
discussion, envisages doubling of GDP, employment-creation for 15 million Vietname.,e and
substantial reductions in poverty in the next ten years. We believe that these are achi vable
targets. Therefore, we want to continue reforms aimed at fully integrating Vietnam with tnre rest
of the world, promoting private investment and making banks and SOEs stronger, more
competitive and efficient.  Most of the employment creation is expected to come from
manufacturing and exports, with the share of agriculture in GDP and employment declining over
the decade.
1II. STRUCTURAL REFORMS
7.    Our reform path will however be different from others given our unique initial corndition
and our concern for social stability. Like many other developing countries, enhancing effiw.iency
and competitiveness of the Vietnamese economy is high on our reform agenda. But at the same
time, we would like to retain large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in Government hands even as
we level the "playing-field" for the private sector and expose all SOEs to greater ex:ternal
competition and stricter financial discipline from the banks.
8.    Implementation of further structural reforms in trade, SOEs, private sector, banking and
public expenditure management, as well as changes in sectoral policies will continue, as part of
our ten-year Strategy and our five year Plan. These are expected to overcome the econDmy's
structural weaknesses and low competitiveness, so that Vietnam can participate more effec tively
in the projected regional and global growth and restore faster growth and poverty-reduction.
The proposed structural reforms are consistent with our policies more generally to complete our
transition to a market-oriented economy as well as our integration with the rest of the worl1.
9.    The planned reforms will be costly and cannot be financed wholly from ouw own
resources.  Restructuring SOE debt, restructuring banks and compensating SOE workers
2



displaced by liquidation, sales and equitization of SOEs or simply by greater external
competition will be costly for the budget. Similarly opening-up trade and ensuring higher
domestic investment will require more foreign exchange to finance higher imports. Donors'
financing support to meet reform costs and balance of payment is necessary for the reform
process in Vietnam. We would therefore like to request financing under the World Bank's PRSC
for 400 million US dollars over the next three years and co-financing from other donors to
underwrite these costs of reform.
10.   The structural reform program for which we seek your support relate to five following
areas:
* Integrating with the region and the world through trade reform;
* Reforming SOEs to improve efficiency, transparency, accountability and competitiveness of
SOEs;
* Creating a better climate for private enterprises;
Strengthening the banking system by improving transparency and accountability;
* Improving efficiency, equity, and transparency of public spending.
11.   Macroeconomic Stability.  We continue to maintain sound macroeconomic policies,
which are critical to the success of these reformns in terms of growth and poverty reduction. Our
macroeconomic framework for 2001-03 aims at annualized GDP growth of 7.0 - 7.5 percent,
inflation well under 5 percent, and the external current account deficit (including official
transfers) at around 2 percent of GDP. Our overall fiscal stance, with greater focus on poverty
reduction, will protect medium-term sustainability and minimize recourse to domestic bank
financing. The budget deficit (including amortization and excluding on lending) is expected to
be about -5 percent of GDP during 2000-03, compared with 4 percent over the preceding three
years.' The higher deficits reflect the accommodation of the current costs of structural reform
while the underlying budget position, exclusive of these costs, will remain prudent.
A.    Integrating With the Region and the World
12.   We will continue our development dramatically towards integrating with the region and
the world because we believe that such integration will expand our access to export markets and
technology as well as promote greater competitiveness of our producers in Vietnam. Over the
next three years, such integration will be carried out mainly through implementation of our
commitments under the ASEAN Free Trade Arrangement (AFTA) and the United State Bilateral
Trade Agreement (USBTA). Measures to expand private participation in non-oil exports will
also be important.
13.   Recent Trade Measures. Over the last decade, Vietnam has covered a long way in
liberalizing its trade and foreign exchange regime. In particular, over the last two years, we
I On a more standard international definition, the deficit (excluding amortization and on-lending) would rise to 3
percent of GDP from an average of I percent.
3



liberalized trading rights for all domestic firms and expanded trading rights for foreign invested
enterprises, thereby promoting substantially increased participation of domestic firms in export
activities. In addition, the coverage of quantitative restrictions (QRs) on 8 groups of import were
eliminated (e.g., liquid soda, Ceramic and glass consumer goods, plastic packing, plas:icizer
DOP, ceramic sanitary ware, electric fan, bicycle, and fertilizer) and export quotas on rice were
removed in early 2001. Nearly a fifth of garment export quotas were auctioned to enhance
access for new and small private firms. Tariff rates were lowered to 12 and the maximurr tariff
rate reduced to 50 percent (except for groups of products subject to tarrification).
14.   We plan to reduce quantitative restrictions and tariffs further on import over the next
three years as follows: (i) remove QRs and carry out tariffication accordingly in phases on a
multilateral basis, by early 2003 at the latest, for six product groups (cement and clinker,
remaining kinds of steel, construction glass, vegetable oil, paper and ceramic and granite tiles).
Thus, by early 2003, the Ministry of Trade will only grant licence on five products (motor-cars,
motorcycles, sugar, petroleum products and alcohol) and on products transferred to licensing
regime from the list of banned imports issued under the Regulations on long-term import-export
management for 2001-2005 period; (ii) adopt targets by mid-March, 2001 for QR-removal in the
first year of the program (completion by early 2002); and (iii) reduce AFTA tariffs on mrnjority
of the tariff-lines for products under AFTA road-map to at most 20 percent by early 2003 and
further to 0-5 percent by early 2006, with the pace of tariff-reductions in the first year consistent
with the target for early 2003.
15.   The USBTA is expected to become effective sometime in the middle of 2001. Wz will
reduce restrictions on foreign entry into numerous service sectors like banking, tourism
telecommunications, and others according to agreed road-map stipulated in the signed Vietnam-
US Bilateral Agreement. Also, the current process of licensing of investment will be replaced
gradually by a more automatic process of registration for foreign investments within 7 year, .
16.   We also plan to facilitate greater private participation in exports. Recent liberalizat on of
trading rights has already increased participation of the domestic private sector in non-oil exports
quite significantly. Further liberalization of importing rights are planned for both domestic firms
and foreign-invested enterprises. The rice export market will be opened up too, making it -asier
for private exporters to buy rice from farmers and export. A rising share of the quotas on
garment exports to Europe will be auctioned, in order to give the small and newly-estab. ished
private firms better access to these governmental quotas. Moreover, we have applied automatic
licensing mechanism for some of garment-exported categories. Studies are underway to improve
the auctioning process.
B.    Reforming State-Owned-Enterprises (SOEs)
17.   We plan to complete SOE reforms in the next five years with a view to reducing losses,
stopping accumulation of unserviceable debt and improving competitiveness. This will help us
to ensure that we have a strong, competitive, and market-oriented SOE sector by 2005, suca that
most of the SOEs can compete effectively in an increasingly more open economy. BuildiIg on
the experience to date with equitization and other reforn measures, we have adopted a
4



comprehensive five-year SOE reform program. However, the details of reforms are likely to be
adjusted, as we gain more experience with implementation and impact of the reform program.
18.   Five-Year SOE Reform Program. The proposed program envisages two sets of measures:
enterprise-specific reform measures for nearly half the SOEs (2848 out of 5571 currently in
existence) and general measures relevant for wholly Government owned SOEs, including some
pilot initiatives, aimed at encouraging their management to restructure seriously. Enterprise
specific measures include the following: (i) equitization with zero Government (local or central)
shareholding or with less than a third of Government shareholdings in companies and without
dominant or special shares of the State; (ii) equitization with majority or dominant Government
shareholding; (iii) sales of SOEs under Decree 103; (iv) liquidation and bankruptcy of non-viable
SOEs; (v) mergers as well as (vi) stricter control on the establishment of new SOEs. General
measures are aimed at increasing accountability of management for performance and changing
their behavior in the face of external competition and "hard budget constraint".
19.   Enterprise-Specific Measures For SOEs.  Around 2848 SOEs will be subjected to
enterprise-specific measures as shown below:
* Around 1445 business-oriented SOEs (i.e., around 26% of total number of SOEs) will either
be equitized with zero or less than a third of Government shareholding without dominant or
special shares of the State or sold under Decree 103 or liquidated / bankrupted;
* Around 1403 SOEs (i.e., around 25% of total) including 883 business-oriented SOEs and 520
public-utility SOEs will be equitized with Government majority or dominant ownership of
equitized enterprises registered under the Enterprise Law;
* Around 313 business-oriented SOEs (i.e., around 5% of total) will be merged or converted
into administrative units, but still operated under the State-Enterprise Law.
20.   The rest of the SOEs will be subjected to the following general measures:
* Greater Autonomy And Accountability Of Management For Performance. Management of
SOEs in general, and of the large General Corporations (i.e., those GCs under decree 90 and
91) in particular, will be made more autonomous in their ability to make key decisions and
more accountable for their performance. Various changes in the State Enterprise Law will
thus be approved next year to permit management of SOEs and GCs greater freedom to make
business choices and to adopt a variety of restructuring measures if necessary;
* Stricter Financial Discipline. SOEs will be subjected to stricter financial discipline than in
the past. For this reason, debt-restructuring will only be provided to SOEs that need it and
that implement serious enterprise-specific measures to improve their competitiveness and
profitability. Also, commercial banks will require SOEs to satisfy the minimum
requirements of commercial viability as well as of collateral where necessary, with no
preferential treatment for SOEs.
  Improved Transparency Of Information On SOE Performance.  Efforts to improve
transparency and monitoring of SOEs' performance on a more regular basis, are also
underway. For this purpose, we plan to implement the following measures:
5



- Monitor every quarter, the growth in credit and in budgetary support to the 200 large
and highly indebted SOEs from 2001, so as to alert Government to changes in their
indebtedness, permitting timely remedial actions.
- Strengthen and extend the existing system for management information on SOE
performance on an annual basis. The MOF will strengthen its existing databa,e on
5571 SOEs as well as train its staff in the analysis of and reporting on that dat-.base,
so that higher levels of Government receive annual reports on SOE-perforrnance. In
addition, MOF in coordination with the State Bank will expand its database for the
200 largest SOEs over the next 12 months with the financial and technical support
from UNDP.
-  Carry out annual financial audits of large SOEs and use that information for asscssing
performance, and gradually move the accounting system and accounting standards for
SOEs closer to international standards.
21.   Three Year SOE Reform Program. The first three years of our reform to be support -d by
the World Bank's program is expected to cover the above stated general measures an I the
following enterprise-specific actions:
*  Around 925 business-oriented enterprises will be either equitized or sold (with zero oe less
than 1/3 Government shareholding without dominant or special Government shaies)or
liquidated / bankrupted;
* Around 875 SOEs (507 business-oriented SOEs and 368 public utility SOEs) will be
equitized with Government holding majority, dominant or special shares. These equ tized
SOEs will register to operate according to the Law on Enterprises;
* Around 197 SOEs will be merged with other SOEs;
*  Around 150 SOEs under three General Corporations will be restructured on a "pilot" basis;
* Around 100 SOEs will be subjected to operational reviews (also called "diagnostic" auldits)
and remedial actions will be implemented based on recommendation of the audits.
22.   Equitizations and Sales of SOEs. Around 925 SOEs will be either equitized by selling
more than 65 percent of their shares (leaving zero or less than a third of Government
shareholding without dominant or special shares) or sold in the first three-years, to non-
government shareholders or liquidated.  To achieve these targets, we will make fitrther
improvements to the process of equitization, with a view to increasing its transparenc; and
effectiveness. To streamline the equitization process, the implementation decree will soton be
revised to expand capital and security markets, to remove the caps on the size of shareholcings,
and to improve the transparency of the process, and to move responsibility for issuing, selling,
and registering shares out of SOE's management. In addition, nearly 875 SOEs will be equitized
with majority or dominant Government ownership. These SOEs will be registered under the
Enterprise Law as shareholding companies.
23.   Liquidations.  At least around 219 non-viable SOEs will be liquidated or put into
bankruptcy in the first three years. For this purpose, we expect to simplify the legal and
procedural framework for liquidation and bankruptcy and make it applicable to both privately-
6



owned and state-owned enterprises. The Government has already initiated work on revising the
bankruptcy law with the help of external support from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), and
draft revised law and regulation will be completed in the next twelve months.
24.   Pilot Initiatives For General Measures. To provide a menu of options to SOEs that will
remain government owned, at least three pilot initiatives will be implemented. If successful,
these will demonstrate to management of other such SOEs, how to restructure and become more
efficient and competitive:
Restructuring Of Three General Corporations.  We plan to restructure three General
Corporations (GCs) Seaprodex, Vinatex, and Vinacafe covering nearly 150 individual SOEs,
to make them more competitive and more profitable. Consultants, funded by the UK, have
already done preliminary work and will begin by the middle of 2001 the formulation of a
detailed restructuring plan, in consultation with the GCs. These plans will provide annual
milestones for actions aimed at improving corporate governance and competitiveness of the
key SOEs under them. Such actions could include de-regulation of entry in order to promote
competition in these sub-sectors, new corporate governance mechanisms, equitization or sale
of non-core assets and liquidation of non-viable operations, and so on. The specific
restructuring measures in the plan and timetable for their implementation over the following
two years will be discussed with the World Bank.
Operational Reviews Or Diagnostic Audits. Around 100 large and troubled SOEs will have
detailed operational reviews (or diagnostic audits) of their recent performance, as agreed
under the Miyazawa plan. Management of the 30 selected SOEs have already agreed to
conduct these "operational reviews" with the help of international consultants funded by
various donors including Japan, Denmark, Australia and Canada. They will be completed in
12 months provided adequate donor funding is available. Following those operational
reviews, the SOEs, the National Steering Committee on SOE reform and the World Bank
will develop and implement an action plan to implement the recommendations of these
reviews in the subsequent year.
Conversion Into Limited Liability Companies in which the State is single-owner. We intend
to pilot conversions of around 100 government-owned SOEs into limited liability companies
in which the State is single-owner under the Enterprise Law. After such conversion, these
enterprises will operate autonomously, on a commercial basis and with no subsidies.
25.   First Year Implementation Targets. In order to achieve objectives and targets of the
three-year SOE reform plan, we are setting forth the targets for the first year implementation as
follows:
* Complete equitization by selling more than 65 percent shares without Government dominant
or special share to non-state shareholders, or sales under Decree 103or liquidations/
bankruptcies for around 352 business-oriented SOEs;
* Equitize around 283 SOEs under Enterprise Law with Government dominant or special
shares;
7



* Complete mergers of around 75 SOEs;
a Complete operational reviews (i.e., "diagnostic" audits) of around 30 selected SOEs;
* Convert around 30 wholly Government owned SOEs into limited liability companie s in
which the State is single owner, registered under the Enterprise Law, on a "pilot" basis;
* Complete operational restructuring plans for three selected general corporations.
26.   SOE Debt-Restructuring. SOEs will be eligible for debt-relief only if they establish need
and commit to serious restructuring of their enterprises. Thus SOEs that are equitizing, selling
under Decree 103, or liquidating themselves will receive priority for debt-reductions, debt-MTite-
offs and debt-rescheduling. SOEs that are owned 100 percent by government can also be eligrible
for debt-relief, if needed, provided they satisfy the following three conditions:
* The SOE has a detailed restructuring action plan, reported to MoF and SBV, and the reklvant
banks for their approval;
* The SOE agrees to be monitored by providing half-yearly reports to MOF and relevant rank
on implementation of the restructuring action plan;
The output and products produced by the SOE will face greater external competition under
the announced AFTA road-map (i.e., QR on its products will be removed and tariffs will be
reduced to at least 20 percent by early 2003, vis-a-vis the ASEAN countries).
This will ensure that Government funds are not being used for bailing-out SOEs that are not
making serious efforts to improve their accountability, competitiveness and profitability. It will
also contain the fiscal costs of debt-restructuring.
27.   The mechanism for implementing the SOE reform plan is being strengthened. but
substantial technical assistance grant support will be necessary from the donors. The new
Steering Committee for SOE Renovation and Development chaired by the first Deputy P-ime
Minister and with representation from ministries and People's Committee, is charged with
guiding and overseeing formulation of reform policies and implementation of the SOE-reiorm
program. Currently, technical assistance is being provided by donors in the areas of social safety
nets, liquidation and bankruptcy legal framework, pilot restructuring of three General
corporations, and in the implementation of equitization and sales under Decree 103 of individual
SOEs.
28.   Social Safety Net for SOE Workers. We know that these reforms will make some SOE
workers redundant but we want to ensure that they are supported financially in the trans tion
period to finding other jobs. The Government has thus designed an expanded "social safety net"
for those SOE workers that are adversely affected by the reform program to be funded front the
proceeds of equitization, from the budget and from the concessional external resources provided
by donors.
29.   The Assistance Fund for SOE Rearrangement and Equitization has already been
established. However, by mid 2001, we plan to make the following modifications to the design
of existing Fund or establish new Fund with the following characteristics:
8



* The level of assistance to displaced or redundant SOE workers will be more generous than
the level currently stipulated by the Labor Code, in order to minimize the social costs to
workers.2 However, SOEs current obligations towards their workers under the law will not
be increased. All the additional financial assistance will be provided by the Assistance Fund
for SOE Rearrangement and Equitization or the new Fund.
* Most redundancies will be voluntary, in the sense of requiring agreement of both the worker
and the enterprise; however, some job redundancies will necessarily be involuntary (e.g., in
the context of liquidation and bankruptcy). There will be no difference in terms of criteria
and definition in the level of financial assistance provided to redundant workers based on the
nature of restructuring (i.e., same criteria will be used for assistance for workers effected by
equitization, sales, liquidation, and bankruptcy). The same assistance will also be available
to workers displaced by the restructuring of wholly Government owned SOEs, though those
SOEs will have to satisfy the eligibility-conditions stipulated for debt-restructuring in
paragraph 26. Redundant workers in equitized SOEs will also be eligible for assistance by
the Assistance Fund for SOE Rearrangement and Equitization, but only during the 12 months
after equitization.
* Workers eligible for assistance from the revised Assistance Fund for SOE Rearrangement
and Equitization or new Fund will not be on short-term or temporary contracts, nor will they
have been hired after 1998, i.e., after Prime Minister's decision 20 was issued. SOEs will
also not re-hire workers who received assistance from the revised Assistance Fund for SOE
Rearrangement and Equitization.
* To avoid possible biases by age and gender in downsizing, the compensation package will
have a substantial lump-sum component. The package for voluntary redundancies will
include no more than two months of base salary per year of service (including current
obligations under the Labor Code) and a required lump-sum in the range of 5 to 10 million
vnd including retraining costs. The Fund will also assist workers who opt voluntarily for
early retirement, by funding the difference between the above separation package and the
early retirement benefits available from the existing pension fund.
The revised Assistance Fund for SOE Rearrangement and Equitization or new Fund will pay
workers directly, or make sure that resources intended to assist the redundant workers
actually reach them and maintain records to that effect. The Fund will not support re-training
activities for workers who are not separated from their jobs, nor other programs, such as
micro-credit or wage subsidies, aimed at promoting employment out of the public sector.
* The revised Assistance Fund for SOE Rearrangement and Equitization or the new Fund and
the Government will monitor the situation of redundant workers that received assistance,
assess the appropriateness of that assistance on the basis of that monitoring and if necessary
re-evaluate the design of the safety net program on the basis of that assessment.
2 The Labor Code will remain the reference point for "normal" layoffs in the private sector, and for layoffs in state-
owned enterprises beyond the period of intensive reform t2001-05].
9



C.    Creating a better climate for private enterprises
30.   We are encouraging all sectors of the economy, including the private sector, to participate
more effectively in Vietnam's future growth. Many recent measures to liberalize the private
sector have been adopted over the last 18 months and there has been a significant supply
response from Vietnamese entrepreneurs to those measures. Additional policies to pronr ote the
private sector will be adopted and implemented over the next three years as part of our tin-year
Socioeconomic Development Strategy.
31.   Recent Measures. We have been implementing several policies aimed at level ng the
"playing field" for domestic private enterprises as well as liberalizing the climate for foreign
investment. New corporate forms have been permitted and entry into various sub-secto-s have
been eased. Private enterprises' access to land, credit and foreign exchange has also been
facilitated.
32.   Domestic Private Investment. Our Government enacted the new Enterprise Law in 1999
and began its effective implementation in 2000. This Law allows the private sector to undertake
all activities that are not explicitly forbidden.  To facilitate entry of Vietnamese private
entrepreneurs into numerous economic activities, the Government has in addition removed
existing business licensing requirements from 145 industries, trades and services. Various
incentives have also been provided to domestic investors in the form of tax relief and finiancial
support from Government funds.
33.   We have also been encouraging Vietnamese talent in business by awarding "red stars" to
young Vietnamese businessmen, by starting courses in business in our universities and by
providing training and support for domestic entrepreneurs. Efforts are also undervay to
minimize other forms of discrimination against the private sector as well as to encourage state-
owned-commercial banks (SOCBs) to provide credit to private SMEs.
34.   To enhance private SMEs' access to credit from banks, we have implemented measures
to facilitate private transactions in land-use-rights. Vietnamese individuals are now permitted to
use their land-use rights as equity and as collateral for loans and are allowed to sub-lease, land,
leased from the State.  All enterprises and credit institutions (including foreign invested
enterprises and branches of foreign banks) operating in Vietnam are allowed to mortgage and to
receive as collateral, such land-use-rights and buildings, though registries necessary for
executing such mortgages are still to be established.
35.   The response of the domestic private sector to these measures has been excertional.
14,400 private SMEs have newly registered in 2000, compared to new registrations of around
3000 each year for the last three years, contributing a more than $1 billion investmeit and
generating tens of thousands of jobs. Half of these private SMEs are in Hanoi and Ho Ch Minh
City with the rest spreading around Vietnam. Recent surveys show that more than half are
"green-field" new investments in the manufacturing sector, implying a significant jump in
domestic private manufacturing investment in 2000.
10



36.   Foreign Investment.  The revised Foreign Investment Law as well as Decree 24 to
implement the revised law, have liberalized the foreign investment climate considerably. This
revision has improved corporate governance, permitted registration rather than licensing for
export-oriented projects in line with approved plans, and improved incentives for all foreign
investors. It has also allowed Government guarantees to projects, making large infrastructure
projects feasible and made it possible for investors to purchase foreign currency more freely for
their imports.
37.   Three-Year Policy Agenda. We plan to take several steps to improve the climate for
private investment further and to increase private investment significantly. First, we will
continue eliminating and /or modifying business-licenses, thereby opening up additional sub-
sectors for easier private entry. Second, we will monitor registration of private SMEs in the
provinces, assess the comparative ease with which SMEs can expand and publish the results
regularly for information of potential investors. Third, we will issue a new decree on SMEs to
establish various credit and guarantee mechanisms as well as support institutions for SMEs..
Fourth, we will promote the formation of Vietnamese business associations in line with our
commitments under the Miyazawa plan.
38.   We will also try to increase private sector's access to land and access to credit. In
particular, we will improve land-use planning and remove restrictions on allocating agricultural
land to industrial activities. This will enhance private SMEs' direct access to land thereby
reducing their need to rent land from SOEs at exorbitant rentals. In addition, we will establish
next year, the secured transactions' registration offices as well as a "national data system" on
secured transactions, which will permit registration of mortgages of land-use-rights and of
buildings, thereby increasing access to bank credit.
D.    Strengthening the Banking Sector
39.   The reform strategy for the banking sector aims at restoring soundness to the system and
improving the efficiency of financial intermediation. The government has adopted a reform
approach designed to reduce the fiscal costs of reform, reduce the risk of moral hazard, increase
competition, move toward a market-oriented approach to allocation and mobilization of
resources and maintain system stability -- all consistent with the program's goals of
macroeconomic stability, and improved financial intermediation.
40.   Central to this approach are strong efforts to stem the flow of future bad loans from both
JSBs, and especially, SOCBs. Thus the banking reform program aims at increasing transparency
and accountability of the system, improving the legal and regulatory framework, moving
gradually to international accounting standards especially in loan-classification and provisioning,
leveling the "playing-field" for all banks and restructuring the JSBs and the SOCBs.
41.   Improve Legal, Regulatory and Supervisory Framework. Continued efforts will be made
to strengthen the legal and regulatory framework for banks and supervisory oversight of all
banks. Regulations have been adopted recently to strengthen the prudential framework in respect
of capital adequacy ratios, related party lending, collateral requirements, deposit insurance and
criteria for intervening in troubled banks. For example, existing Decision 284, relating to loan
11



classification will be amended by end of 2001 to move loan-classification and loan-loss
provisioning closer to international standards (i.e., entire value of loan classified as non-
performing). The legal framework for creditor rights will also be strengthened, especially with
respect to the foreclosure of collateral and liquidation of assets on a market basis including
transactions in land-use rights in early 2001; these will be needed for effective operation of asset
management companies (AMCs) and the loan workout units (LWUs) relating to each bank.
Policies and procedures have to be revamped to improve banking supervisory functions. For this
purpose, capacity and skills for on-site and off-site bank supervisions will be strengther.ed and
new manuals for such supervision finalized.
42.   We will also be taking steps to improve the assessment of bank-performance in general
and for SOCBs in particular. Regulations will be revised where necessary to ensure an accurate
assessment and accounting. In the transition, each of the four large SOCBs will un,1ertake
independent audits by reputed firms using international accounting standards, in order to allow
management, Board of Directors, and the government (as shareholder of SOCB), to measure
bank's commercial performance as accurately as possible.
43.   JSB Restructuring. The government will also continue to restructure and strengthen the
JSBs. The SBV has completed its financial assessment of all JSBs and has drawn up a plan to
restructure them. In accordance with the restructuring plan, the five weakest banks were closed
with licenses revoked or merged by March 2001, followed with the closure or merger of amother
four weak JSBs by June 2001. Improvements have also been made to the mechanisms for
rehabilitating marginally capitalized but viable banks, and for addressing insolvent ones. In
particular, existing shareholders of JSBs have until October 2001 to meet chartered capital
requirements under Decree 82, either directly or through merger with another JSB, failing which
SBV regulation will cause the shareholders, in the first instance, to bear the losses of the failed
joint stock banks. The resolution of failing JSBs, and the terms of government funding of the
resolution, will follow a formal and transparent process for repaying or protecting depos: tors of
JSBs. By end of December 2001 we will take strong but appropriate supervisory action for all
JSBs that are not in full compliance with regulatory standards.
44.   SOCB Restructuring. We plan to approve formally by end of March 2001 a framework
for comprehensive SOCB restructuring aimed at resolving problems at the SOCBs. to be
followed with detailed restructuring plans for each SOCB. The first such individual restructuring
plan, approved by the State Bank in consultation with the World Bank, will be available by the
end of March 2001. Restructuring of SOCBs will be implemented in coordination vAith the
three-year SOE reforn program and will include the following key components:
Phasing-Out Policy And Non-Commercial Directed Lending By SOCBs, except in a few
cases during the transition, where explicit Ministry of Finance (MOF) guarantees are
provided to the borrower to underwrite such loans. This is necessary to ensure that SOCB
management remains accountable for the performance of its new loan portfolio generated in
2001 and beyond as well as of its older (pre-2001) loan portfolio. All new poli:y and
noncommercial directed loans would be provided through the planned Policy Bank and the
recently established National Investment and Development Fund unless a SOCB recefves an
explicit MoF guarantee or if MoF finances the loans in advance.
12



* Phasing Re-Capitalization Of Each SOCB Over A Three Year Period, conditional on
SOCB's performance each year i.e., key actions taken and key operational targets met as
shown in their individual restructuring plans. For this purpose, we will have an explicit
understanding between each SOCB and the SBV (e.g., following the details in the
restructuring plan of each SOCB) in the form of a SBV decision. The decision will highlight
the performance conditions to be met each year by the relevant SOCB for receiving the
phased government funding of non-recoverable NPLs and re-capitalization needs. These
conditions would include measures to strengthen SOCB management autonomy and
accountability, to increase commercial orientation of their lending and to raise profitability.
The specific annual actions to be taken and targets to be met by SOCBs to obtain government
funding will relate to the following: a) NPL resolution and phasing out of policy loans; b)
annual audit by reputable auditing firms based on international auditing and accounting
standards (IAS) with follow-up to correct agreed deficiencies cited in audit reports; c)
independent annual verification of implementation of new classification and provisioning
rules on the new or rescheduled loans for each SOCB; d) specific improvements in credit risk
management, management information systems (including profitability analysis) and internal
audit functions followed by tests of compliance of these measures on a number of large
borrowers for each SOCB; e) compliance with relevant SOCB specific operational targets
based on revised IAS provisioning of new loans, specifically i) non-interest expense as a
percentage of assets (of less than a specified percentage), ii) return on assets of specified
target, and iii) NPL ratio of less than 5 percent based on revised IAS classification for all new
credits commencing in the year.
R Resolving Non-Performing Loans (NPLs). SOCBs' NPLs as at December 2000 will be
resolved through the AMCs owned by SOCBs and the loan workout units (LWUs). In
particular, SOCBs will adopt the following processes and procedures for NPL resolution; a)
create in the first year AMCs and LWUs with dedicated management and staff. AMCs and
LWUs will complete in the first year initial categorization of loans, based on debtor, size,
industry, location, status of operation; b) transfer at the beginning of first year all
collateralized NPLs to the AMC and non-collateralized NPLs to LWUs of each SOCB; c)
complete recovery action plans in first year for the 50 largest debtors in each LWU, with the
balance (for loans over a specified amount), completed in second year; d) restructure or sell
assets of a specified percentage of the NPLs in the LWU and in the AMC, each year for all
the three years; e) classifying NPLs on the basis of revised loan-classification standards
annually, but phase in the provision over three years; f) timing and extent of government
funding for non-recoverable NPLs and re-capitalization will be conditional, i.e., funding
tranches over three years will be linked to meeting the conditions set out above and detailed
in individual SOCB restructuring plans; and g) borrowers, including SOEs, will be eligible
for debt write-offs, debt-reductions and debt-rescheduling provided they meet the conditions
cited in paragraph 26.
* Carry out annual independent IAS audits by international auditors starting in 2001.
Vietcombank and Incombank will complete IAS audits of the fiscal year 2000 in 2001.
Within framework of the Second Rural Finance Project of the World Bank, Bank for
Investment and Development of Vietnam (BIDV) and Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (VBARD) have agreed to do annual IAS audits in 2001 for the fiscal
13



year 2000. These audits reports and other progress reports will be provided only to the
World Bank. The IAS audits will be used to ascertain accurately the financial health of the
banks including appropriate loan classification and provisioning. The audit findings will be
available only to the Ministry of Finance, the State Bank of Vietnam, the Board of
Management of the relevant SOCBs and the World Bank for monitoring performance of the
SOCBs.
Raising The Share Of Credit To Non-State Sector, especially non-state SMEs, is one of the
objectives of SOCB restructuring, to meet our goals of higher investment. Nearly half the
bank credit goes to non-state-sector, mainly to individual farmers, with only a small
proportion of that credit going to non-state SMEs. SOCBs will be encouraged to develop
special units for providing more effective banking services, including credit, to this err erging
and growing non-state sector.
45.   A detailed three-year restructuring plan will be adopted for Vietcombank by  nd of
March 2001 in line with the five bullets in paragraph 44 above. Individual restructuring plans
for the other three large SOCBs (Incombank, Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development and
Bank for Investment and Development) will be finalized by end March 2001, also in line with
paragraph 44. In addition, by end-2003, the Government will seek to secure, for one of the
SOCBs, strategic equity participation from a reputable foreign banking partner.
E.    Improving management of public expenditure
46.   We understand that more efficient management of public expenditure will be crilical in
the context of stagnating revenue and the need to finance costs of structural reforms over the next
three years. The recently concluded Public Expenditure Review (PER, 2000), prepared jointly
by donors and Government, identified clearly the need for improved budgetary da.a and
transparency of that data, for better prioritization of public spending, and for improving
expenditures for the poor. Our agenda for the next three years will cover all three areas.
47.   To improve data collecting and reporting in terms of timeliness and consistency, w e will
designate treasury in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) as the department responsitle for
maintaining comprehensive public accounts and fully implement a fully integrated management
information system and accounting system in the treasury.
48.   Improving internal and public transparency of the budgetary information that is produced,
is equally important for efficient public expenditure management. Unless, all agencie, have
access to details of public spending by other agencies, they cannot make key decisions
effectively. We have done a good deal on improving transparency since 1998 by pub ishing
budgetary information since June 1999 and subsequently and completing the secondl PER
through a very transparent process, involving ministries, agencies and provinces in the p. ocess.
We are planning to expand public information on budgets considerably, in the next two years. In
particular, we will publish detailed information on the budget for all sectors, covering more than
75 percent of the total Government spending, as done in PER, starting at the end of the first year
of this program.. The provinces will publish annually, provincial budgets by sectors for th-e first
14



time in 2002 and communes will post their budgets outside commune offices, as required under
the law.
49.   Better processes are needed for prioritization of public spending, to ensure funding for
critical areas, while keeping expenditure restrained overall. For this purpose the following
actions are planned. First, we plan to improve the processes for coordinating capital and
recurrent expenditures to ensure better balance between these expenditures. For that purpose, we
have initiated a study to design alternative and more effective processes and hope to complete
that in 2001. Second, we will be asking sector ministries to play a bigger role in prioritizing
spending during budget formulation, by basing it on a carefully costed five-year strategy and
expenditure plan. This will be done during the finalization of the five year plan. Third, we will
be formulating new norms for recurrent spending, and new norms for cash transfers to provinces
from the state budget through a participatory process at relevant levels.
50.   Spending will be further redirected toward key social services, especially for primary
education and basic health services, and for vital social and economic infrastructure (in particular
for rural development) in support of poverty reduction. To ensure funding for such spending,
government wage increase will be accompanied by the implementation of civil service reforms
so as to contain the growth in the wage bill. Subsidies to SOEs will be avoided.
IV. EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY
51.   Vietnam has made substantial progress in normalizing relations with its external creditors
in recent years. All bilateral agreements under the 1993 Paris Club accord have been concluded.
Vietnam has really negotiated with Russia and agreed to repay its reduced outdating debt with
exports of goods and services. Agreements have been reached on restructuring non-convertible
debt to Bulgaria, Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Germany, and
Romania. Rescheduling agreement has been concluded on commercial bank debt with the
London Club.
52.   The specific path of the external current account deficit over the medium term will
depend in part on the level of FDI inflows. The external current account deficit (including
grants) is projected to increase slightly to 2-3 percent of GDP during 2001-03. In addition, large
debt service payments on earlier FDI loans of up to US$800 million a year are expected to fall
due during this period. In view of the large financing need, only a modest increase in gross
official reserves is envisaged. The total financing requirement from the official assistance
sources over 2000-03 is expected to be covered by loans and grants from multilateral source
(including the World Bank and ADB) and bilateral creditors (including Japan). The residual
financing gap of US$1.5 billion is expected to be covered largely by quick-disbursing
concessional financing from the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the Fund, and other
bilateral donors. The Government intends to contain external commercial borrowing to ensure
that the external debt burden remains manageable.
53.   External public debt dominated in convertible currencies (including interest arrears and
late interest) amounted approximately to US$9 billion (about more than 30 percent of GDP) at
end-2000. On the above assumptions, Vietnam's external debt is sustainable. The public debt
15



service ratio is projected to decline steadily over the next ten years. Attempting to sustain high
economic growth, we are determined to actively promote exports while limit borrowing abroad
on commercial terms in order to maintain external debt sustainability in the long term.
54.  To facilitate wider distribution of the LDP and I-PRSP, the Government of V ietnam
authorizes their publication by the Bank.
Sincerely yours,
Le Duc Thuy
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
16



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
081@.JE(UIXT't\'1      .-\(''1ACIlON.S A1RFA)DY  l'AKIN                  I'NM) OF FIRST  'EAR                          END OF1 i'LIIHIl) Y'EAf
A. MACRO ECONOMIC POLICY
Maintain             Maintain a macroeconomic policy framework that Maintain a macroeconomic policy framework that Maintain a macro-economic policy framework that is
macroeconomic        is consistent with the program               is consistent with the program.               consistent with the program.
stability
B. PRIVATE SECTOR
Create a fair efficient Approved the Enterprise Law permitting                                                  Study to gradually come up with a commonly leveling
and competitive      establishment of private enterprises, through                                              legal framework for all enterprises: private, state-
environment for      automatic registration and issued decrees to                                               owned and foreign invested enterprises
private sector       implement the Law.
investment           Eliminated business licensing requirements in 145 Further remove about 50 business licenses in  Amend and supplement legal regulations on business
trades, industries and services to ease entry under  another trades, industries and services or convert  toward eliminating inappropriate administrative
the Enterprise Law.                          them into conditions for enterprises to satisfy when interventions and all restrictions for enterprise in doing
operating in these sector.                   business.
Took initial steps to remove the dual pricing system Take additional steps to phase-out dual pricing
for foreign and domestic entities.           system for foreign and domestic entities
Removed the requirement that foreign invested
enterprises denominate wages of Vietnamese staff
in dollars.
Opened the stock exchange and listed four
equitized SOEs for trading on exchange
Revised Foreign Investment Law.              Prepare for the issuance of decree on formation and
operation of Vietnamese business associations, at
both the provincial and national level.
Improved legal framework to facilitate private  Establish secured transaction registration agency   Begin to effectively use  newly established secured
transactions in land-use-rights:             and a national data system for               transactions registration agencies.
- Revised land law to permit Vietnamese to   secured transactions like mortgages over land-use
contribute their land-use-rights as equity and as   rights and buildings, so that such transactions can
collateral.                                  be executed.
-Allowed all banks (including foreign bank
branches) in Vietnam to accept land-use-rights as
1collateral
Policy Matrix -- Page 1 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
- Issued securities regulations to permit mortgages  Improve financial reporting and auditing practices
of land-use-rights and buildings.                 in the private sector by issuing new regulations for
bringing accounting and auditing standards close to
international standards
C. SOEs REFORM
Reform state            Agreed on a tentative list of around 700 SOEs to Complete equitization (by selling more than 65      Complete equitization (by selling more than 65
enterprises (SOEs) to  be equitized, sold , liquidated next year          percent shares to non-Government Shareholders),  percent shares ), sales under Decree 103 and/or
reduce losses and                                                         sales ), sales under Decree 103 and/or liquidation   liquidation of 925 SOEs
strengthen their                                                          of 352 SOEs having no State's dominant and
efficiency and                                                            special share
competitiveness.
Completed equitization of 296 SOEs (to be         Complete equitization with dominant state
confirmed) by selling more than 65 percent shares ownership of 283 SOEs
I
Completed equitization of 324 SOEs (to be                                                           Complete equitization with dominant state ownership
confirmed) .                                                                                        of 875 SOEs
Issued Decree 103 to allow for sale of small SOEs To streamline the equitization process, the
through close-bid tenders and transfers to        implementation decree will soon be revised to
employees, without requiring their conversion into expand capital and security markets, to remove the
joint-stock companies                             caps on the size of shareholdings, to improve the
transparency of the process, and to move
responsibility for issuing, selling, and registering
shares out of SOE's management.
Complete review of legal framework for            Complete implementation of the recommendations
liquidations / bankruptcies and revise existing laws, from diagnostic audits for 60 SOEs.
decrees and procedures for implementing
liquidation / bankruptcy
An SOE has completed "equitization" if it satisfies the following criteria:
(i) the State has no dominant (controlling) shares in the shareholding company, (ii) transactions for sale of shares to employees and private outside investors have been completed and payment received (or committed, in case of poor
workers) for 65 plus one vote; (iii) the shareholding company has been registered, received an appropriate business license and held shareholders meeting.
Policy Matrix -- Page 2 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
OBJ.IECTIVUK           A( lIONS *\IEI.)   1AKEN                         EMN) OF FIRS'TYFAH 11ND O;F_11TIri) YE.R14
Agreed on a list of 100 large SOEs for      Complete operational reviews (i.e. diagnostic  Complete operational reviews (i.e. diagnostic audits)
operational reviews (i.e. diagnostic audits) to be   audits) of around 30 SOEs, and develop a timetable of around 100 SOEs (provided donor financing is
conducted by independent consultants.       for implementing recommendations.            available), and develop timetable for implementing
recommendations for around 40 remaining SOEs.
Provided agreements from SOE management of a
sub-set of 30 SOEs for initiating operational
reviews (i.e. diagnostic audits).
Agreed on the key aspects of "pilot" restructuring  Complete detailed restructuring action plans for   Complete "pilot" restructuring of three General
of three General Corporations: Seaprodex, Vinatex each of the three General Corporations (i.e.  Corporations.
and Vinacafe                                Seaprodex, Vinacafe and Vinatex) and develop
annual milestones and targets for their restructuring
over the next two-vears.
Convert around 30 wholly government owned   Convert aroundlO0 wholly govemment owned SOEs
SOEs into limited liability companies with State as into limited liability companies with state as single
single-owner registered under the Enterprise Law. owner and registered under the Enterprise Law
Monitor every quarter, the growth in credit and in
budgetary support to the 200 large and highly
indebted SOEs from 2001, so as to alert
Government to changes in their indebtedness,
permitting timely remedial actions.
Policy Matrix -- Page 3 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
Strengthen and extend the existing system for
management information on SOE performance on
an annual basis. The MOF will strengthen its
existing database on 5571 SOEs as well as train its
staff in the analysis of and reporting on that
database, so that higher levels of Government
receive annual reports on SOE-performance. In
addition, MOF will expand its database for the 200
largest SOEs over the next 12 months with the
financial and technical support from IINDP.
Carry out annual financial audits of large SOEs and
use that information for assessing performance, and
gradually move the accounting system and
accounting standards for SOEs closer to
international standards.
D. INTEGRATING WITH THE WORLD
Promote exports by   Freed up exporting rights of all registered domestic
expanding access to   firms to export without a license from the Ministry
export markets,      of Trade.
technology and
imported inputs and
capital goals.       Allowed private firms to export rice, and foreign-  Fully open up participation of private sector in the
invested firms to purchase rice directly from  rice export trade.
farmers for export.
Removed quotas on rice exports.
Auctioned 20 percent of garment export quota.   Auction 25 percent of garment export quota.  Raise the share of garment export quotas to be
auctioned each year.
Policy Matrix -- Page 4 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
OB1E.CH.(   1 FI                lION       Lt                                     END OF'  FIRST N1F,NA                                [NI) OFT 1I111J 1) IFAR
Reduced coverage of export taxes.                 Complete review of Vietnam's experience with        Operate a well-functioning auction system so that
auctioning garment export quota and consider       every exporter has equal access.
measures to improve for the auction process.
Liberalize imports to   Reduced the number of tariff rates to 12 (from 26)
permit easier access    and maximum tariff to 50 percent (from 60) except
and ensure greater      for eight broad categories of goods.
external competition
Freed up rights of all business-registered domestic
firms to import goods directly without a license
except for imports that are banned or conditional
Eliminated quantitative import licensing           Remove Quantitative Restriction vis-a-vis all      Eliminate QRs on all tariff-lines of the six product
restrictions (QRs) on imports of eight product     countries, from all tariff lines for clinker and paper, groups i.e. cement and clinker, remaining kinds of
groups out of the 19 remaining groups.            replacing them with tariffs.                        steel, construction glass, paper, vegetable oil and
ceramic and granite tiles.
Adopted and announced an annualized 6-year         Implement the first-year tariff-reductions envisaged Reduce tariffs on ASEAN imports in line with the
program of QR removal and tariff-reduction under under AFTA  road-map                                 AFTA road map.
the AFTA program.
Permitted foreign invested enterprises to import
goods for marketing in the country, provided they
are permitted to produce those goods.
E. BANKING
Strengthen regulatory  Eliminated preferential treatment for SOEs,         Strengthen legal and regulatory framework for
oversight legal         including rescinding of: Instruction 417 on the    entry/licensing, corporate governance and exit
framework and           collateral requirements for loans to SOEs.         policy requirements2.
supervision to enhance
transparency and        Repealed Circular No.3 on the write-off,           Complete issuing guidelines for a transparent
accountability in       rescheduling of non-performing loans to SOEs and resolution mechanism, delineating the conditions
banking.                Instruction No.9 on the extension of the maturity of for resolving/intervening in troubled banks with
loans at risk.                                     specific triggers for different types of actions/
interventions.
'This will include the following:
- Standard review of minimum capital requirements and qualitative evaluation of new entrants.
- Accountability standards for Board of Directors and senior management.
- Create independent intemal control and audit functions that report directly to Audit Committee of the Board of Director.
- Establishment of credit risk management committees to oversee implementation of policies and procedures.
Policy Matrix -- Page 5 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
Adopted regulations limiting financial institutions  Amend Decision 284 on loan classification and
from lending to shareholders and directors and any loan loss provisioning to classify and bring them in
and all persons and entities related to them   line with international standards.
including enterprise in which banks have
ownership interest.
Established a deposit-insurance scheme for all    Implement the revised loan-classification and loan-
depositors                                     loss provisioning standards. Ensure compliance of
all banks to the revised loan-classification and loan-
loss provisioning and verify through audits.
Agreed to independent IAS audits by reputed firms Develop an implementation plan for the use of IAS
of each of the four large SOCBs at least once in   in the banking sector and in banking supervisory
the next two years.                            functions.
Agreed on draft text for revision of decision 284 as
well as timetable for its issuance
Issue regulations to level the playing field for all
banks in respect of allowing foreign currency and
lending by foreign banks to exporters.
Establish AMC owned by each SOCB, develop and
adopt guidelines and legal framework for bank
restructuring specifically laws governing powers to
credit institutions and AMCs, to exercise creditor
rights, to foreclose and sell collateral even if is
there is disagreement on the value of the collateral
with the debtor (with final accounting of value to
debtor}.
Policy Matrix -- Page 6 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
OBJEC1TJX'             AlTIONS  I           YEND OFF11T YIA RSN 1 EN) O FTI I  XIt 1) Y                                                       IER
Agree to establish and implement a risk-based  Establish and implement a CAMEL bank rating
banking supervision system.                 system and develop policies and procedures
required for risk-based banking supervision to
result in improved bank supervisory practices.
Specificallv.
- finalize off-site and on-site supervision and credit
institution rating procedure manual based on
CAMELS framework
- begin implementing use of procedures into
written supervision reports
- establish Early Warning System to identify
problem banks through use of rating procedure
Complete evaluation of SBV supervisory practices Complete implementing recommendations of the
in consultation with the WB and develop     evaluation of SBV supervisory practices.
recommendations for implementation.
Develop detailed training programs for SBV staff  Complete two years of implementation of the training
to enhance supervisory skills such as credit  programs for SBV supervision staff.
management, financial analysis and international
accounting standards for financial institutions.
Restructure joint-stock Completed financial assessment of all JSBs by  Establish loan work out units in JSBs to allow for
banks (JSBs) to      State Bank of Vietnam (SBV) and developed a    the initiation of loan workout and corporate
consolidate and to    plan for restructuring all JSBs, involving  restructuring of debtors, including SOEs.
bring them in        rehabilitation of viable banks and merger or closure
compliance with      of weak banks with the aim of reducing
prudential regulations substantiallv the number of JSBs .
Complete independent financial and operational
assessments of 10 large JSBs .
Closed 3 JSBs, merged 2 banks and placed 13 other Close 9 JSBs, revoking their licenses
JSBs under SBV's "special control" regime.
Policy Matrix -- Page 7 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
Engaged consultants to conduct an independent   Complete implementation of JSB restructuring to  The number of JSBs reduced substantially and all of
financial and operational assessments of 10 large  reduce number of JSBs and ensure that they are in  them are in compliance with regulatory framework.
JSBs and finalize their action plans.       compliance with existing regulations.
Restructure state-                                                Develop detailed restructuring action plans with   Further implementation of restructuring action plans
owned commercial                                                  annual milestones and targets for VBARD,     of four large SOCBs, in line with agreed timetable and
banks (SOCBs) to                                                  Incombank, and BIDV.                         the milestones.
make them transparent
and accountable.
Engaged consultants to assist SBV and each SOCB Establish the AMC for each SOCB and transfer
with the development of individual restructuring   bad loans with collateral to AMC.
action plans.
Adopted the SOCB restructuring framework, in    Establish loan work out units in SOCBs to allow   Seek to secure, for one of the SOCBs, strategic equity
line with agreed framework of critical components for the initiation of loan workout and corporate    participation from a reputable partner.
for restructuring SOCBs.                    restructuring of debtors, including SOEs.
Developed a detailed restructuring plan for  Complete establishment of policy bank and
Vietcombank, together with a timetable for   government financed Investment Funds, so as to
implementing performance conditions (i.e. key    shift all policy lending to these institutions over
actions and operational targets) closely linked to its time.
phased re-capitalization over 3 vears.
Complete independent IAS audits of four large
SOCBs by reputed firms.
Policy Matrix -- Page 8 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
OIIJE.CIIlrF              ACTIONS ARIR               'I'DYTAKFN                 [IM) OF FIRS'lYEAlt Y;RN                                  I     I OI' 1'11'1k) YEA' R
._ ..... ........... ... ......... _.. _.. . ...... ...... .-...... .... .... . .... ....... .. . ........ . ............ ...... ......... ..... __... .. .. ................... . .. ........ .... _. ... _.... ....... .. ..... ..._
F. PUBLIC SPENDING
Improve                |Published budgetary data for the first time in June  Improve data reporting and transparency by   Implement a fully integrated MIS and accounting
comprehensiveness,    1999 and 2000.                                     designating treasury as the main agency responsible system in the Treasury.
consistency and                                                          for a comprehensive management information
transparency of                                                          system for all government expenditures.
budgetary information
Completed the Public Expenditure Review (PER-  Revise relevant regulations to allow for more      Adopt functional classification in line with
2000) and agreed on recommendations to be        budgetary information, sector by sector, to be   international practice.
implemented and a timetable for their            published.
implementation
Complete another participatory PER.
Ensure full implementation of the rule asking
communes to post commune budgets outside
commune offices
Complete inventory of all "off budget" accounts
and prepare summary report for all such accounts,
annually.
Improve equity of                                                     Review existing "norms" for allocating current    Implement the new cash transfer system to provinces,
public spending                                                      expenditure and "norms" for making cash transfers using newly revised norms.
to provinces, to ensure more equitable distribution
of social spending for poorer and disadvantaged
provinces.
Adopt mechanisms to provide funding directly to   Revise budget law to reflect the changes.
schools and health facilities for exempting fees of
the poor
Policy Matrix -- Page 9 of 10



PRSC POLICY MATRIX
Improve efficiency of                                             Study alternative and more effective processes for Implement the new process for integrating capital and
public spending                                                   coordinating budgeting and execution of capital   recurrent budget-formulation and budget-execution
and recurrent spending overall and in each sector,
to ensure better balance between recurrent and
capital spending.
Take steps to raise budget allocation for O&M  Develop a medium-term sector expenditure program
expenses for irrigation, road and inland waterways for the Education Sector.
maintenance, agricultural research & extension.
Create a more        Established a Restructuring Assistance Fund for   Issue regulations/decisions to modify the design of
generous social safety  SOE workers.                              the Fund in line with paragraph 28 of Letter of
net for SOE workers                                               Development Policy.
effected by reforms
Agreed to modify design of separation packages   Complete review of the performance of the Fund in
and conditions of eligibility.              terms of actual disbursements, situation of
redundant workers.                      .
Policy Matrix -- Page 10 of 10



Annex 1
Page l of2
Vietnam at a glance
East                                   --
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Asia &     Low-
Vietnam    Pacific  Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                     78.8     1,837     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  380      1,000      410
GNP (Atlas method, USS bi/lions)                    30.5     1,833      988                       7
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                    A
Population (%)                                       1.6       1.2       1.9     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                      1.6       1.3       2.3     per                          Gpnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population be/ow national poventy line)  37        -
Urban population (% of total population)              23        34       31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     68        69        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bin.hs)             26         35       77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            34        22       43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)     36        84       64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  7         15       39                   Vietnam
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  114     119       96
Male                                              116       121       102             LLow-4ncomegroup
Female                                            110       121        86   i
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                      Rev.     Prel.
1979    1989      1999      2000
Economic ratlos~
GDP (USS billions)                           ..      6.3      28.2      30.5
Gross domestic investment/GOP                 ,.    14.6      20.5      24.0                    Trade
Exports of goods/GOP                          ..    23.8      40.8     47.3
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    ..     4.4      22.1      23.0
Gross national savings/GDP                   ..      5.1      24.4      25.5
Current account balance/GDP (exc. grants)    ..    -9.3        3.9       1.5     Domestlc      /vim\
Interest payments/GDP                        .,      0.9       2.2        ..    Savings                     Investment
Total debtfGDP *..                                    ..      39.6      45.5   i         
Totaldebtservicelexports                     ..       ..      14.6      11.1   I
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..      ..      36.4
Present value of debt/exports                ..       ..      71.9
Rev.      Prel.    Proi.                 Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99    1999      2000  2001-05
(average real annual growth)
GDP                                4.3      7.8      4.5       5.5       65             -     Vietnam
GNP per capita                     1.7      6.0       ..        ..        ..                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       ..    24.1      19.7      19.7      9.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                Prel.                              _    _
1979    1989      1999      2000     Growth ot Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  ..    40.8       27.1      26.6
Industry                                     ..    22.9       36.7      37.0
Manufacturing                              ..    19.1        18.7       ..   |                       o
Services                                      *     36.2      36.3     36.4   1 9 9495 98   97   98   99
Private consumption                          ..    87.7       75.3      76.0    -29 
General govemment consumption                ..      7.8       6.8       7.0                       0 , GDl    --GDP
Imports of goods                             ..    34.1       37.0     46.1   1
Prel.
(average realannual growth)             197949  1989-99      1999      2000     Growth of exports and imports (%)
70 -
Agriculture                                 3.9      4.6       5.2       4.0 0
Industry                                     ..    11.8        7.0      10.0    so 
Manufacturing                              ..       ..        ..        ..     40
Services                                     ..      7.9       2.0       4.2    30-
Private consumption                          ..      5.9        ..        .     l
General govemment consumption                ..      9.4       3.2       ..
Gross domestic investment                    ..    62.5       19.7      13.8   -10 -    94   95  93   97   9    99
Imports of goods and services                ..    24.3       -2.5      26.3                 -Exports   -Imports
Gross national product                      4.4      7.7       4.5       5.5
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Debt estimates exclude non-convertible debt based on CAS Annex Tables.



Annex 1
?age 2 of 2
Viethiam
PRICES antd GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                    Rev.      Prel.
1979     1989      1999      2000      Inflation (%)
Domesffc prces                                                                       25
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  ..    95.8        4.3      -1.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    82.6         4.6         -     150
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, Includes currnent grants)                                                                                   o,,
Current revenue                                 ..    13.9        19.8      20.4      5     94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                          ..       0.0       5.9       5.0                        GDPdeflator   c'CP
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..       ..       -0.8      -1.8
TRADE                                                             Rev.      Prel.
1979     1989      1999      2000      Exoort and imoort levels (US5
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..   1,320    11,537    14,443      20,000-
Rice                                                  319      1,025       722
Fuel                                           ..    200       2,091     3,500     15,000-
Manufactures                                   ..
Total imports (cif)                                   1,790     11,502    15,473     10,000 -
Food
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..    1,166         ..      s,o
Capital goods                                  ..
Export price index (1995 100)                   ..        ..        87        ..            93  94  95  9S  97  95  99  00
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        84                                a Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995&100)                                  -       104
SALANCE of PAYMENTS                                               Rev.      Prel.       _    _
1979     1989      1999      2000
(US$ milins)
Exports of goods and services                   ..        ..   14,097    17,196       4 
Imports of goods and services                   ..        ..   13,494    17,350
Resource balance                                                  602       -154      2
Net income                                       ..       ..      -537     -719
Net current transfers                                     6      1,177     1,477     .2
Current account balance                         ..   -586        1,243      604
Financing items (net)                                              -47      509
Changes in net reserves                                         -i,290      -95      10
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..        ..    2,711      3,030
Conversion rate (DEC, boca//US$)                     4,464.0  13 350 0  14,300.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS                                  Rev.      Pre].
1979     1989      1999      2000    |         ,        
(US$ millions)                                1                                      Composition of 2000 debt (USS
Total debt outstanding and disbursed -           ..       ..   11,142    13,900      mill.)              B 1.130        
IBRD                                           0        0         0         0                                     C 354
IDA                                            1       59       989      1,149       F 3,
Total debt service                               0      235      2,056     1,904                                       1,087
IBRD                                           0        0         0         0
IDA                                            0        t         9        10
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              192       44       133       140
Official creditors                             2      -50       -347
Private creditors             '                0       -3       -500
Foreign direct investment                     -..      ..       700       800
Portfolio equity                               0        0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        0       468       345      A: iBRD    D0 Other multlateral
Disbursements                                  1        0       158       160      B: IDA      E: Bilateral
Principal repayments                           0        1          2        2      c IMf       F: Others (includingSOEsi debts,
Net Rlows                                      1       -1       156       158                  export credi, fnandal
Interest payments                              0        0         7         7   1
Net transfers                                  1       -1        149      151
EASPR
* Figures are rounded.
Debt estimates exclude non-convertible debt based on CAS Annex Table.
Bank staff estimatles.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
VIETNAM: KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1997-2004
Act.               Prel.     Est.         Projected
1997    1998      1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Growth Rates (%)
Real GDP                              8.2%     4.0%     4.5%     5.5%     5.0%     6.0%     7.0%     7.0%
Real GDY                              9.8%     7.2%     1.4%     7.8%     2.7%     5.0%     6.2%     7.2%
Real GDP per capita                   7.8%     5.2%    -0.5%     5.8%     0.8%     3.0%     4.3%     5.3%
Consumer price index (annual avg.)    3.2%     7.8%     4.3%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%     4.0%
Consumer price index (Dec. to Dec.)   3.6%     9.2%     0.1%    -1.0%
Debt Service
Debt service (US$ million)           1,341    1,647    2,056    1,904    2,889    2,718    2,515    2,584
Debtservice/XGS(%)                   11.5%    13.8%    14.6%    11.1%    15.6%    13.1%    10.8%     9.8%
Debt service/GDP (%)                  5.4%     6.4%     7.3%     6.2%     8.8%     7.6%     6.4%     6.0%
Ratios to GDP (current prices) (%)
Investment                           29.8%    20.5%    20.5%    24.0%    25.7%    27.3%    28.0%    28.0%
National savings                     22.6%    15.6%    24.4%    25.5%    25.2%    23.7%    25.7%    26.4%
Domestic savings                     21.5%    13.8%    22.1%    23.0%    22.9%    22.2%    24.3%    25.0%
Public investment                     6.2%     5.7%     6.6%     6.8%     6.7%     6.8%     6.5%     6.5%
Private investment                   23.6%    14.8%    13.9%    17.2%    19.0%    20.5%    21.5%    21.5%
Ratio of public/private investment     0.26     0.39     0.47     0.40     0.35     0.33     0.30     0.30
Other Items
Export growth rates (nominal) (%)    24.8%     2.4%    23.2%    25.2%     8.4%    13.0%    13.1%    14.2%
Exports/GDP (%)                      36.7%    36.2%    40.8%    47.3%    47.7%    49.7%    51.3%    53.5%
Exportgrowthrates(real)(%)           13.3%     4.3%    19.7%    17.4%     7.1%    10.1%     9.5%     9.8%
Importgrowth rates (nominal)(%)       4.1%    -0.9%     1.1%    34.5%    11.7%    18.5%     9.5%    12.0%
Imports/GDP (%)                      41.9%    40.0%    37.0%    46.1%    47.9%    52.3%    52.3%    53.5%
Import growth rates (real) (%)        5.3%     5.3%    -2.5%    26.3%     7.9%    13.4%     6.5%     8.6%
Current account balance (US$ million)
- before official transfers        -1,798.0  -1,255.0  1,109.0   459.0  -160.0  -1,313.0  -885.0  -670.0
* percent of GDP (%)               -7.2%    -4.9%     3.9%     1.5%    -0.5%    -3.7%    -2.3%    -1.6%
- after official transfers        -1,623.0  -1,057.0  1,239.0   599.0    -20.0 -1,173.0  -740.0  -525.0
* percent of GDP (%)               -6.5%    -4.1%    4.4%     2.0%    -0.1%    -3.3%    -1.9%    - 1.2%
Gross reserves in weeks of
imports                               8.0      7.0      9.1      9.1     10.8     10.8     11.5     11.5
Note: Figures are rounded.
Source:
Actual data: Vietnamese authorities and Bank and Fund staff estimates. Estimates and projections: World Bank.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
VIETNAM: FISCAL SUMMARY, 1997-2004
Indicator                                   Act.            Prel.     Est.              Projected
1997     19       1999    2000       2001     2002     2003      2004
Public finance (% of
GDP at current market prices)
Current Revenues (inc. Grants)            20.8     20.2      19.8     20.4     20.0      20.0     19.7      19.7
Current expenditures (accrual basis)      16.3      15.0     13.9     15.4      16.0     15.9     15.8      15.6
Wages and salaries                      6.9      6.5      6.0       7.5      7.9      8.0       8 D      8.0
Others                                  9.4      8.5      7.9       7.9      8.1      7.9       7.8      7.6
Capital Expenditure                        6.2      5.7       6.6      6.8      6.7       6.8      6.5       6.5
8.4      7.2      8.4      9.3       9.0      8.8       8.3      8.3
On-lending                              2.2      1.5      1.8       2.5      2.3      2.0       1.8      1.8
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-): (exc. onlending  -1.7   -0.5     -0.7     -1.8     -2.7      -2.7     -2.6      -2.4
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-): (inc. onlending)  -3.9  -2.0     -2.5     4.3      -5.0      -4.7     -4.4      -4.2
Note: Figures are rounded. For 2001, expenditures include contingency spending.
Source:
Actual data: Vietnamese authorities and Bank and Fund staff estimates. Estimates and projections: World Bank.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
VIETNAM: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1997-2004
Actv                tL         Est.          Projected
199      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003      2004
Exports (fob)                            9.1       9.4     11.5      14.4      15.7     17.7      20.0     22.9
Imports (fob)                           10.4      10.3      10.5     14.1      15.7      18.6     20.4     22.9
Trade Balance                           -1.3      -1.0       1.1      0.4      -0.1     -0.9      -0.4       0.0
Non-Factor Services                      -0.6     -0.5      -0.5     -0.5      -0.7      -0.8     -0.9      -1.2
Services (Net)                           -0.6     -0.7      -0.5     -0.7      -0.8     -1.0      -1.0      -1.0
of which:
- Interest                             0.5       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6
Transfers (Net)                          0.9       1.1       1.2      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.6       1.6
of which:
- Official Transfers                    0.2       0.2      0.1       0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
- Private Transfers (net)               0.7       1.0       1.0      1.3       1.4       1.4      1.4       1.5
Current Account Balance (exc. Grants)    -1.8     -1.3       1.1      0.5      -0.2      -1.3     -0.9      -0.7
Capital Account                           1.7      0.6      -0.4     -0.8       0.5       1.4      1.0       0.8
Medium and Long-Termn                   0.2       0.1     -0.4       0.1       0.4      0.4       0.3       0.1
- Disbursements                          1.0      1.1      0.9       1.4       1.7       1.7      1.7       1.5
of which:
* IDA                                  0.2       0.3      0.2       0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2      0.2
* Existing and New ODA                 0.4       0.5      0.8       1.2       1.2      1.2       1.3       1.3
- Amortizations/Principals              0.8       1.1       1.4      1.2       1.3       1.3      1.3       1.4
Short-Term (net)                        -0.5      -0.3      -0.7     -1.7      -0.9     -0.7      -0.5      -0.5
Direct Investment                        2.0       0.8       0.7      0.8       1.0       1.7      1.2       1.2
Errors and Omissions                     -0.1      0.0       0.0      0.3       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Overall Balance                          0.0      -0.5       0.8      0.1       0.5       0.2      0.3       0.3
Financing                                0.0       0.5      -0.8     -0.1      -0.5      -0.3     -0.3      -0.3
Change in Foreign Reserves             -0.3       0.1     -1.3      -0.1      -1.0     -0.7      -0.8      -0.7
IMF (Net)                              -0.1      -0.1       0.0      0.0       0.1       0.0      0.0       0.0
Arrears                                 0.3       0.1       0.5     -9.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Rescheduling                            0.0       0.4      0.0       9.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing requirements:           ..        ..       ..        ..              0.4       0.4      0.4       0.3
* 2001-2003 = $1.2 billion
* 2001-2004 = $1.5 billion
Note: Figures are rounded.
Source:
Actual data: Vietnamese authorities and sank and Fund staff estimates. Estimates and projections: World Bank.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
VIETNAM: EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS, 1997-2004
(US$ Billion)
Act.               Prel.     Est.          Projected
1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002     2003    2004
Financing Needs                       3.0      2.4       1.6      0.6      2.4      3.3       2.9      2.7
Current Account Deficit               1.8      1.3    -1.1      -0.5      0.2      1.3       0.9      0.7
Medium & Long-Term Amortization      0.8       1.1      1.4      1.2      1.3      1.3       1.3      1.4
o/w FDI Principal Payments         0.2      0.4      0.6      0.7      0.8       0.7      0.7      0.7
IMF Repurchases                      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0      -0.1      0.0      0.0       0.0
Others (Net) (1)                     0.1      0.0      0.1      -0.3      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Reserve Reqtuirernents               0.3    -0.1        1.3     0.1       1.0      0.7      0.8       0.7
Financing Resources                   3.0      2.4       1.6      0.6      2.4      3.3       2.9      2.7
Official Grants                      0.2      0.2      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1
Long Termn Borrowing                  1.0      1.1     0.9       1.4      1.8      1.9       1.9      1.7
- ()PA                              0.6      0.8      0.9      1.4      1.5      1.5       1.6      1.7
o!w IDA (2)                      0.2      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.3      0.4       0.4      0.4
iN1F Putchases                                                            0.1      0.1      0.1       0.0
Direct Foreign Investment            2.0      0.8      0.7      0.8       1.0      1.7       1.2      1.2
Short- Term Capital (Net)            -0.5     -0.3     -0.7     -1.7     -0.9     -0.7     -0.5      -0.5
Arrears Accumulations (Net)          0.3      0.1      0.5      -9.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Debt Relief                          0.0      0.4       0.0     9.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
.A dditionalfinancing needs          0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.2      0.1      0.1       0.1
Memo Item:
IDA Quick disbursing credits                                      0.10     0.15     0.15      0.15
Memo Items:
- Export Growth Rate (non-inal)    24.8%   2.4%    23.2%    25.2%     8.4%    13.0%     13.1%    14.0%
Import Growth Rate (nominal)     4.1%    -0.9%     1.1%    34.5%    11.7%    18.5%      9.5%    12.0%
- GDP Growth Rate (real)          8.2%     4.0%     4.5%     5.5%     5.0%     6.0%      7.0%     7.0%
Note: Figures are rounded.
1. including errors and omissions.
2. Including quick disbursing credits.
Source:
Actual data: Vietnamese authorities and Bank and Fund staff estimates. Estimates and projections: World Bank.



Annex 3
VIETNAM: KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS, 1997-2004
(US$ Billion) a!
Act.               PreL      Est.         Projected
1997     1998     1999    2000    2001       2002    2003    2004
b/       b/       b/
Total debt outstanding             10.05    10.76    11.14      13.9   14.35    14.92    16.14    16.93
and disbursed (TDOD) (US$ billion)
Public                            6.57      7.3     7.76    10.79    11.47      12.2   13.51    14.31
Multilateral                     1.3     1.97     2.28     2.57      2.9     3.25     3.67     4.12
Bilateral                       5.27     5.34     5.48     8.22     8.58     8.95     9.84    10.19
Concessional c/               3.34     3.66     3.98     6.74     7.53     8.22     9.23     9.78
Non-concessional d/           1.92     1.68      1.5     1.48     1.05     0.73     0.61     0.41
Foreign direct investment         3.49     3.45     3.38     3.11     2.87      2.72     2.63     2.63
Key Debt Service Indicators (%)
Debtservice/XGNFS                 11.5     13.8     14.6    11.1       15.6     13.1     10.8      9.8
Debt service/GDP                   5.4      6.4      7.3      6.2       8.8      7.6      6.4      6.0
Note: Figures are rounded..
a. Includes future disbursements.
b. Convertible debt only.
c. For 2000 onwards, includes the rescheduled of non-convertible Russian debt.
d. Suppliers credit, financial institutions, export credits, and other private creditors.
Source: World Bank staff estimates, based on information provided by the Government.



Annex 4
Status of Bank Group Operations in Viet Nam
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
(as of March 31, 2000)
Amount (US$ million) / a
Loan or                                                                             (less cancellations)
Credit      Fiscal                                                                                Ur dis-
Number        Year    Borrower                    Purpose                             IDA /a       bu sed
Six credits closed                                                                           621.90               0.00
Active Proiects
2548            1994     Viet Nam  Primary Education                                      70.00             11.30
2549            1994     Viet Nam  Highway Rehabilitation                                158.50             25.02
2711            1995     VietNam  IrrigationRehabilitation                               100.00             51.22
2785            1996     VietNam  Payment System & Bank Modernization                     49.00             34.48
2807            1996     VietNam  Population & Family Health                              50.00             21.80
2808            1996     VietNam  National Health Support                                101.20             62.08
2855            1996     Viet Nam  Rural Finance                                         122.00             13.13
2929            1997     Viet Nam  Rural Transport                                        55.00              7.96
CN0130           1997      VietNam  Highway Rehabilitation 11                             195.60             107.96
CN0260           1997      Viet Nam  Water Supply                                          98.61              73.54
2996            1998     Viet Nam  Forest Protection                                     21.51              18.42
3000            1998     VietNam  Inland Waterway & Port Rehabilitation                  73.00              65.45
3034            1998     VietNam  Transmission & Distribution                            199.00            174.81
3099            1998     Viet Nam  Agriculture Diversification                            66.85             59.83
3125            1999     VietNam  Urban Transport                                         42.74             37,32
3125            1999     VietNam  HigherEducation                                         83.30             74,14
3198            1999     Viet Nam  Mekong Delta Water Resources                          101.80             91.22
3211            1999     VietNam  Three Cities Sanitation                                 80.50             76.54
3292            2000     Viet Nam  Coastal Wetlands                                       31.80             28.61
3306            2000     Viet Nam  Rural Transport ll                                    103.90             92.02
3358            2000     Viet Nam  Rural Energy                                          150.00            144.49
3448            2001     Viet Nam  Mekong Transport                                      110.00            111.51
Q2222           2001      Viet Nam  VN-HCMC-Env/Mtl Sanitation                           204.60             204.60
Total                                                                                      2,890.81
Total now held by IDA                                                                      2,890.81
Amount sold                                                                                    0.00
Total Disbursed                                                                            1,303.36
of which repaid                                                                              10.45
Total undisbursed                                                                                              1587.45
Note:         /a Principal amounts in US$ equivalent at date of negotiations, and undisbursed amounts in US$ equivalent
are valued at exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.



Annex 5
Vietnam: Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management
Indicator                                                1998       1999      2000       2001
Portfolio Assessment
Number of Projects under Implementation a/                  17         2         21        22
Average Implementation Period (years) b/                   2.2        2.6         3        3.5
Percent of Problem Projects by Number a/ c/               23.5         5          0      22.7
Percent of Problem Projects by Amount a/ c/               35.8       2.4          0      28.5
Percent of Projects at Risk by Number a/ d/               29.4         5          0      22.7
Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount a/ d/               38.5       2.4          0      28.5
Disbursement Ratio (%) e                                  18.6      17.3         12        7.1
Portfolio Management
CPPR during the year (yes/no)   yes
Supervision Resources (Total US$)
Average Supervision (US$/project)
Memorandum Item                                              Since FY 80        Last Five FYs
Project Evaluated by OED by Number                                     5                    4
Project Evaluated by OED by Amount (US$ million)                     521                  461
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number                              0                    0
% of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amount                              0                    0
Note:
a. As shown in the Annual Report on Portfolio Performance (except for current FY)
b. Average age of projects in the Bank's country portfolio.
c. Percent of project rated U or HU on development objectives (DO) and/or implementation progress (IP).
d. As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program.
e. Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the
beginning of the year; investment projects only.
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio,
which includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.



Annex 6
Vietnam: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
(as of March 31, 2001)
Held                               Disbursed
FY
Approval Company                  Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1994 Hanoi Metropole           3.67     0.00     3.50     12.12     3.67     0.00      3.50    12.12
1995 Baria Serece Port.        2.00     0.00     0.00      1.02     2.00     0.00      0.00     1.02
1995/97 Nghi Son Cement         30.00     0.00      0.00    26.50    21.24      0.00     0.00     18.76
1996 Kyoei Steel               9.64     0.00     0.00      0.00     9.64     0.00      0.00.    0.00
1996 Morning Star Cement      25.50     0.00     0.00    52.62    25.50      0.00      0.00    52.62
1996 SMH Glass Co.             8.89     0.00     0.00      3.38     8.89     0.00      0.00     3.38
1996 VILC                      0.00     0.75     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.75      0.00     0.00
1996 Vimaflour                 6.00     0.00     0.00      2.00     6.00     0.00      0.00     2.00
1997 NATL                     20.00     0.00     0.00    20.00    20.00      0.00      0.00    20.00
1998 MFL Vinh Phat             0.30     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.15     0.00      3.00     0.00
Total Portfolio         106.00     0.75      3.50    117.64    97.09     0.75     3.50    109.90
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan             Equity             Quasi              Pv rtic
1996 Vietnam Intl Lse          5.00              0.00               0.00               0.00
1998 Baria                    24.20              4.00               0.00              49.00
1998 BaWC                     12.50              0.00               0.00              12.50
1999 MFL Chau Giang            0.00              0.00               0.00               1.00
1999 MFL Minh Minh             0.00              0.00               0.00               1.00
2000 Interflour                8.00               0.00              0.00               1i.00
2000 MFL Mondial               0.00               0.00              0.00               (1.00
2000 MFL-AA                    0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00
Total Pending Commitrner    49.70            4.00               0.00             6(1.50



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Vietnam's Trade Policy Commitments Under AFTA and the USBTA
Vietnam joined ASEAN on July 28, 1995, and subsequently committed to implement the
Common Effective Preferential Tariff Scheme (CEPT) for the realization of the ASEAN
Free Trade Area (AFTA) from January 1, 1996. The bilateral trade agreement with the
United States (USBTA) was signed on July 13, 2000, and in November 2000 Vietnam
completed a successful Working Party meeting of the World Trade Organization (WTO),
beginning the process for bilateral trade negotiations to pave the way for WTO accession.
Trade reforms to be undertaken during the next three years period build on these
communities.
Vietnam's commitments under the AFTA include:
*  Tariff reduction: Tariff on a vast majority of tariff lines on imports from ASEAN
members (95 percent, according to preliminary estimates) will be reduced to at most
20 percents by thk start of 2003, and to 0-5 percent by the start of 2006, to complete
CEPT.
-  Sectoral tariff-reductions. By early 2004 average tariffs on manufactures from
ASEAN countries will fall by 50 percenit and average tariffs on ASEAN imports of
textiles, leather, wood products, non-metallic mineral products (e.g., glass and
ceramic products), and food products (including vegetable oil) will fall by more than
60 percent.
X  Removal of non-tarif barriers (NTBs): All goods in the Temporary Exclusion List
(TEL) will be moved to the Inclusion List (IL) by 2003, and NTBs removal on goods
in the' TEL when the applicable tariff is reduced to 20 percent or below. Currently,
4,230 tariff line items are in the IL and 1,800 items in the TEL.
Vietnam's commitments under the USBTA include the following:
* Overall: Vietnam will get better access to the US export market upon ratification of
the agreement by USA and Vietnam (subject to annual renewal). In exchange,
Vietnam will have to open its market through the adoption of the following measures:



Annex 7
Page 2 ,i)f 2
In respect of goods:
*  Trading rights: Liberalize trading rights for U.S firms in three to six years.
*  Tarifs: Reduce current tariff rates on a limited range of industrial and agricultiiral
items (about 250) by 30 to 50 percent over three years.
*  QRs: Remove QRs on most products in three to seven years, but back-loaded for s:eel
and cement (after six years) and petroleum products (after seven years).
In respect of services:
* Overall: Open up the services sector considerably - on several indicators, Vietr,am
will be providing more market access than low and middle income countries under
the Uruguay round and only slightly lower than the larger transition economies ( see
lanchovichina, Martin and Wood, 2000 for details). The following are some examples
of that opening:
*  Banking services: Allow U.S. equity in joint ventures (with up to a 49 percent stake).
After nine years, allow 100 percent U.S. owned subsidiary banks. Also allow L .S.
equity in privatized Vietnamese banks at the same levels as Vietnamese investors.
Phase in right of U.S. banks to accept dong deposits on same basis as domestic banks
over eight years for business cliental and ten years for retail depositors.
*  Nonbankfinancial services: Allow 100 percent U.S. equity in financial leasing ano in
other leasing after three years.
*  Insurance: Allow joint ventures in three years and 100 percents U.S. equity in fivc to
six years.
D  Other services: Allow immediately 100 percent U.S. equity in a range of techni zal
services, including in legal, accounting, engineering, computer-related, and
construction areas.
In addition, the following measures will be taken by Vietnam
*  Trade-related investment measures: Phase out all WTO-inconsistent measures (e.g.,
local content requirements) in five years.
* Transparency: Publish all laws and decisions governing issues in the agreement,
establish administrative or judicial tribunals for review, and provide the right of
appeal.
*  Intellectual property rights: Apply WTO-consistent protection for intellectual riglhts
in 12-18 months.



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANT SUPPORT TO SOE, BANKING AND
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE REFORMS
The formulation and initial implementation of the multi-year reform program has been
supported by technical assistance grant support mainly from donors and there is adequate
assistance in the pipeline that can be used for the first year of implementation of the
PRSC program. A significant part of this support has been administered by the World
Bank. The attached tables indicate the recently completed, ongoing and some planned
technical assistance grants that have supported formulation and initial implementation of
reforms in state-enterprises, banking and public expenditure management.
Most of this grant support is now being coordinated through donor-Government working
groups on reform and recent meetings confirm considerable renewal of donor interest in
providing further support in the implementation of the PRSC program. More detailed
needs assessment for technical assistance over the next three years is being completed
and donors have committed in principle to provide such assistance.
On banking, the major needs are in the area of monitoring systems for implementation of
the program, banking supervision, restructuring of JSBs and restructuring of SOCBs. On
SOEs, the need is also monitoring systems for implementation of the program, technical
support to different ministries and agencies for implementing reform, support to
information system for SOE data, support to specific General Corporations that want to
restructure and monitoring of social safety net use through surveys.  On public
expenditure, the need is in respect of follow-on studies in decentralization, especially
transfer systems, in implementing an integrated public financial management system and
of improving transparency.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
Donor's Technical Assistance Grants for SOE Reform
Donoir &               Proe(unenni!Aec)Sau
rAmont
AADnBEnancing institutional capacity of key agencies                Approved and ongoing-
(MOF, SAGO, SBV, SSC) in diagnostic audit of
USS 1,400,000SOEs and in review and approval of SOEs seeking
to equitize and obtain public listing (MOF, SAGO
and SSC)
ADB3                  Formulate and implement a strategy and practical  Approved and ongoing.
US$ 1,600,000         method for corporatization of SOEs; Implement and
enforce the adoption of international best practice in
ASEM ~~~        corporate govemnance (NSCERD). -
ASMIEuropean      Social safety net program to deal with labor     Under imp] ~-mentation.
(WB administered)     displaced by SOE reform (CIEM in coordination    Completion expected to
USS 100,000           with NERC)                                       be in June (0.
ASEM 4 European       Acceleration of equitization and restructuring SOEs   Recruitment of
(WB administered)     in the Ministry of Transport,                    consultants in process.
US$ 439,000                                                           Begin work in July00
ASEM 5 European       Support implementation of SOE reformn in three line   Recruitmen: of
(WB administered)     ministries (industry, agriculture, and construction)  consultants in process.
US$ 1,470,000         and two provinces /municipalities (Hanoi and one
other). (NERC)
(IFC administered)   Support a pilot divestiture program for small SOEs    Completed n February
USS 782,000 USAID    in Haiphong People's Committee. (Hlaiphong        2001.
& USS 180,000, IFC    People's Committee) using the auction process for
eq u itizatio n .             .  ... ..........   ...........  ................
Denmark, DANIDA       Support to Industry Restructuring and Enterprise  Approved aiid ongoing.
administered          Development by implementing equitization plans   Expected cempletion:
US$ 3,100,000         and providing post equitization assistance (Ministry   2002
of Fisheries).                                         ..........
Denmark               Advisory services, public awareness campaign, the    Completed in Jan.00.
(WB administered)     establishment of a MIS for SOEs, and capacity
USS 390,000           building in NERC (NERC)
Denmark               Advisory services on implementation of the decree    Under implementation.
(WB administered)     on divestiture, and establishment and use of Support   Expected co -npletion:
US$ 340,000           Fund for Equitization and Restructure (NERC)     July 2000.
Denmark, DANIDA       Support to capacity building in NSCERD in the    Project to start in July
administered          SOE reform process (NSCERD).                     0 1 and run th rough
US$ 1,700,000204
Germany (GTZ          Support to restructuring SOEs in agriculture (Quang   Under implementation.
administered)         Tri Province, Tan Lam area) by providing advise in   Expected com pletion:
US$ 5,600,000         implementing equitization plans (People's        2003.
Committee Quang Tri, CREM)       ----
Japanese Int'l Coop   "Study on Economic Development Policy in the     Phase 2 - '97/'98 and
Agency --SOE part    Transition Toward a Market Oriented Economy in    its follow-up is
USS 250,000           Vietnam" (MPI)                                   ongoing.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
, - ~~~~~~~~~~~.. .. ........ .  .. ...     .    ...   ....  .. . .... .. ... ...... ....._ . ....    .....   ..........  .  .. .. .  ............................... .......   ...... ....   ....... .....  ... .  ...... .  .................    ................ .........................  .......
Japan PHRD -                           Data collection and monitoring system for SOEs                                       ! Completed in June
(WB administered)                      under SAC-preparation. It is also financing a survey    1999.
US$ 218,000                            of 350 SOEs (GDMSCAE, Ministry of Finance)
Japan PHRD,                            Diagnostic audits to assess financial health and                                        Recruitment of
AUSAID, DANIDA    performance of selected SOEs.                                                                             , consultants in process.
US$ 7,900,000                                                                                                                  Expected completion:
December 2003.
... .......... .    ....... .. ........  ............ . ...... .... b................ .  ..... .  .. ..... .. ...  ....... .......... .... . ........... . ..... ... .. .  ... .......... ........  --............. .......... .-.................. ... .......... ..........
Japan Special PHRD    Diagnostic audits of selected SOEs to make                                                               Grant approved.
(WB sad1ministoered)                   recommendations (GDMSCAE, Ministry of                                                   Siten b
Finance) for improvements.awte
.....U .  ......... ..... ...............................................-................ ...................... .. .............. .. ........   .....  ... ..... ............   ...... .......  .... ......... .... . ...... ..
Pilot restructuring of three general corporations -                                    Approved initial phase;
UKf 1,800,000                          Vinatex, Vinacafe, and the Seaprodex (NERC)                                             consultants prered
inception report.
UNDP                                    "Strengthening the Capacity of the General                                             Ongoing. Expected to
US$2,145,800                            Department for the Management of State Capital                                          run through June 2002.
and Assets in Enterprises" by setting up a MIS for
SOEs and valuation (GDMSCAE, Ministry of
a  Finance)-
,7NDP and AUSAID    "Improving the Regulatory Environment for                                                                  Project was initiated in
US$2,382,800                            Business" provides assistance to the Central                                            1997, and is expected to
Institute for Economic Management, MPI.                                                be extended beyond
2001.
~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..... . ........ ..... ............... ..   . .......... ........... ...... . .......... ....; ............ . .... . .. . ...... .......... .....  .   ..  ... .. ............ .... ..... ......   .. ........... ...  ............... ..... .......................... ............ .......... .......   . ......    ......... ..... ...



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Donor's Technical Assistance Grants for Banking Reform
... .....___..._s __n m_ ~<     . _>s++>snsv< . .__ .......  :__...._._._...... .. ....._ .E >es  ___< ___   >x s s*
Donor & Grant      Purose (Implementing Agy                                                   Ss
Amount          .      .                     . _          .....................
- ADB.                     . To help SBV in preparing the medium  and long-                   Final report completed
term  strategy and plans for financial sector                   and the termis are being
USS 980,00                  .development.                                                      reviewed fcr additional
.  analysis.
ADB                          Strengthen corporate Governance of VBARD to                      Expected cc,mpletion by
ensure its competitiveness and effectiveness as a               end 2001.
115$ 900,00                 .financial institution.
A D B.....     ..    ..    ...    .   ....   .  ...... ... .......... ...... ..... . . .. .. ....n....ati. ..... .................- . ............................ . ................................n.............................a................................................. .................................
| ADB                      i Developing a national policy framework for micro-                Fact-finding mission to
finance; formulate a legal framework and a set of               be fielded in March
-SS 237,000                   prudential regulations for micro-finance institutions;    2001.
- set-up a micro-finance unit under SBV. (SBV)
ASEM  I European             Support improved transparency and financial                      Final Repor: is being
(WB administered)            information flows by assisting the Bank                          prepared by consulting
Restructuring Committee through support for loan                firm  (Arthui Andersen)
U   workout teams, audits of selected joint stock banks,
and strengthening of bank supervision through a                 Final Repor is being
resident advisor, training and seminars (State Bank             prepared by consulting
of Vietnam)                                                     firm (Gide l oyette
NoueI
.... . .. .. .. ...... .. ..... .. .  .... . .... . ...... ...  ...... ... .... . .... ..... . ..   ..... . ... .. . . . . ... ...... ...... . .... ...... ... ...  ... ......... .. ...... .. . .... ...........  ..... ..........o   e ..
ASEM  4 European             Support diagnostic audits, due to diligence work for    Bid invitaticn for 10
(WB administered)            closures, develop supervisory framework and do                   selected urban joint
US$ 1,518,125               operational restructuring action plans for 4 SOCBs               stock banks is being
(State Bank of Vietnam)                                         prepared.
Germany (GTZ                 Support to the establishment of a People's Credit                Under implementation.
administered)                Fund System  to strengthen the banking system  and               Expected co npletion:
US$ 1,600,000                provide poor communities with banking services.                  2006.
(State Bank of Vietnam)
AUSAID                       Diagnostic audit of Bank for Agricuiture and Rural               Completed.
- US$ 340,000              . Development for (State Bank of Vietnam)
Japanese PHRD                Support the design and establishment of asset                    Separate Restructuring
resolution mechanisms for restructuring banks                    Plans for 4 SOCBs have
US-   1,282,400               (SBV)                                                            been complei:ed by
consulting flim  (Vinstar
Limited)
Training plans are being
finalized by c.:onsulting
firm  (Deloitt,- Touche
Tohmatsu)
Japanese PHRD                Support for review of existing banks supervision                 Completed
US$ 300,000                 . procedures and recommend revisions to strengthen
supervision
Germany                      Support to the reform  of the Vietnamese banking                 Project is bei ig
DEM  11,000,000               system  (State Bank of Vietnam)                                  implemented
(GTZ administered)
....... ....... ................. ... ............... ...... .... . . .......  . .  ..............  . . .. ...........  .... ..... .... .    . ...... .. ..... ........ ... ..   ... ........... ......... .......  ............  ........... ...... ...........



Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
.............G..a..  ..... . ...........n....... . .............. .. ..................................  ..... ..... ..... .    ................-... .y..... . ..... . ................. .........   .....    ..... ..... ... ...... ..     . . ..............
Germany               0               Support to the establishment of a Cooperative Credit  Project is being
DEM 11,500,00                      . Fund-Network (State Bank of Vietnam)                                                implemented.
(GTZ administered)
.......... .. ............. .. .... . ........ ...  .   ... .................. ...... .. ...... . .. . ..... .. .... .... .. ...... .... ....... .. ... .. .... .. .......    .... ..... ... . ...... ...... ..  ...... ... .... ... ..... .   ....... ....... ..
New Zealand                           Assistance to MOF in relation to APEC report                                       Ongoing.
.. US$ 10,000                         "Freer and More Stable Financial Flows".
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... .   ............. .........   ..  ... . . ........ .... ........ ...... .. . ....  ...... .... ...... ......... ..... .... .. .................. .   ..... ..   .. ....... .... ... ..... .... ....   ............. ........ ..   ....   .
Netherlands                           -Support to independent audit of one SOCB and to                                   Completed
* NG 3,400,000                      . study tours to learn about audit and regulatory
structures in other countries (State Bank of
Vietnam)                                                                           Discussion ongoing
-Offer to finance twinning arrangements for an
..SOCB
Switzerland                          TA to assist the development of credit investment                                   Ongoing.
activities in JSBs. In particular to establish credit                              Expected completion:
US$800,00                           .divisions and strengthen credit analysis.                                            May 2002
Switzerland                          TA for SBV on monetary policy, intermational                                        Ongoing.
US$400,000                            economy and human resource management.                                              Expected completion:
July 2002



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Donor's Technical Grants for Public Expenditure Reform
(On-going and recently completed)
DONORS AND    PURPOSE (IMPLEMENTING AGENCY)                            STATUS
GRANT AMOUNT
Canada/CIDA         Strengthen the capacity of the MOF to (i) develop its   On-going
CND 10,0 mil. (US$   management systems; and (ii)to formulate and
7.0 mil. approx.)   coordinate financial policy (Ministry of Finance)
(1996-2001)
France              Annual bilateral program of assistance with MOF to    On-going
(estimated costs of    support Treasury in computerization with focus on IT
activities for CY 2000  training and expenditure control (State Treasury,
is FF. 0.33 mil.    MOF)
approx.)__________________________________
Germany (GTZ)       Second phase: Assist in design and implementation of  1997-2000
Budget Reform       a State Budget System through: (i)expert advise on
Project            implementation and assessment of the Budget Law,
(ii) support to the introduction of the new budget
classification, (iii) support to establishment of
procedures for budget execution, reporting and
controlling, (iv) development and pilot establishment
of a computerized budget information system
Third phase: Assistance is provided to support  2001-onward
revision of budget law and development of medium-
term fiscal plan (Ministry of Finance)
UNDP                Strengthen Govt.' capacity for efficient and effective   On-going
Public Expenditure    management of public expenditures both at central
Review Capacity     and provincial government levels (Ministry of
Building-Phase II   Finance, Provinces: Bac Ninh, Quang Binh & HCM
US$ 1.7 mil.        City)
UJNDP & Australia    Support Govt. in developing comprehensive and  Project docurr ent has
and other bilateral    sustainable capacity to manage external resources  been finalized The
donors.             flowing to Vietnam with particular focus on debt  project is undt r final
External Debt       (Office of Government, Ministry of Finance, Ministry  approval proce ss.
Management          of Planning and Investment, State Bank of Vietnam,
UNDP: US$ 0.4 mil.  Ministry of Justice)
Australia and other
donors US$ 2.0 mil.
World Bank          - Fiscal Transparency Mission                  Sept. 1998
- Debt Reporting/Recording Mission             Nov 1998
- PER Missions                                Jan, March, May 2000
- PER follow-up donor-government workshop      Feb. 2001
IMF                 - Fiscal Transparency Mission                  Sept. 1998
- Tax Mission                                  Jan 1999
- Tariff Mission                               May 1999
DFID (U.K)          - Support to PER-2000                          2000-2001
US$ 0.45            - Support to implementation of PER-2000 follow-up
activities and preparation of a FMIS project



REFERENCES
Asian Development Bank, LUNDP, World Bank (2000), "Vietnam Entering the 21st Century",
Consultative Group Meeting for Vietnam December 2000, Hanoi.
Baulch, R. (forthcoming), "Poverty Mapping and Targeting in Vietnam".
Belser, P. & Rama, M. (2000), "State Ownership and Labor Redundancy: Estimates from Vietnam 's
Enterprise Level Data", Mimeo, World Bank, Washington D.C.
IFC (2000), "China's Emerging Private Enterprises", Washington D.C.
IMF and World Bank (1999), "Towards Fiscal Transparency", Hanoi.
Ianchovichina, Martin and Wood (2000), "Economic Effects of Vietnam-US Bilateral Trade
Agreement", Washington DC.
Japan Bank for International Corporation (2000), "Vietnam Private Sector Promotion Action Plan
Outline and Progress", Hanoi.
Rama, M. (2001), "The Gender Implications of Public Sector Downsizing: The Reform Program of
Vietnam", Mimeo, World Bank, Washington D.C.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (2001), "Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper", Hanoi.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (2001), "Ten Year Strategy for Infrastructure: Roads, Energy,
Transports", Hanoi.
Socialist Republic of Vietnam (2001), "Ten Year Strategy for Social Sector: Education, Health",
Hanoi.
Vietnam's Communist Party (2000), "Socioeconomic Development Strategy Document 2001 - 2010",
Hanoi.
World Bank (1996), "Operational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements Under Structural and
Social Adjustment Loans", Washington D.C.
World Bank (1998), "Rising to the Challenge - An Economic Report", Consultative Group Meeting,
Paris, December 1998.
World Bank (1999) "Private Solutions for Infrastructure: Opportunities for Vietnam", Hanoi.
World Bank (1999), "Preparingfor Take-off How Vietnam Can Participate Fully in the East Asian
Recovery", Consultative Group Meeting for Vietnam, December 1999, Hanoi.
World Bank (1999), "Private Solutions for Infrastructure, Opportunities for Vietnam", Washington
D.C.
World Bank (2000), "A Progress Report on the Country Assistance Strategy of the World Bank
Group, 1999 - 2002", Hanoi.
World Bank (2000), "World Development Report 2000/2001", Washington D.C.
World Bank et al (1999), "Vietnam: Attacking Poverty". Joint Report of the Government of Vietnam
- Donor - NGO Poverty Working Group, Consultative Meeting for Vietnam, December 14-15, 1999,
Hanoi.
World Bank et al (2000), "Managing Public Resources Better, Public Expenditures review 2000",
Joint Report of the Government of Vietnam - Donor - NGO Working Group on Public Expenditure
Review, Hanoi.
World Bank, (2000), "World Development Indicators - 2000", Washington D.C.






MAP SECTION






CHINA
~~~~~~~~~~~2 ~    ~             21
N~~~~~~'N
S1  ~~~~~~~~~~                                   #           s1~~~~~~~~~~~m   25ATh                                                              2
T.       t                             26   T,.                     i
'4UN                        ib    .H./c Ba
DMCAll2 REPUBLIC(Cia
96TonH6t
2             3~~~~~~~2
C.~~~~~~~~-C
02                           -  -S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T T 
VIETAM I  
O  NATINALMROAD
RAILRPOADS
PORIVES                                                                                                                   P.,AM B(L.
*  -PROVINCE BONAPRIELS                                                                                                          36I
NA-TIOENALONALS
39                  ifT
----L RIVERS                             C   A   M~;                                  41 0D'A
PROVNE INC  BOUDAIESTh
INTERNA 31THION TAL  
2     ONARE loc  3   oN
II Wok Hoon  41 EVE PEon   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ILt~~~~Rn %,      ~        ~         '41 
12 TEoI llqopon  42 Ln,n TOnT  PIn,                  N        IG~~~~~~~~~~~~~X,                           4
13ROVINCES        43 NXIko                 o   'EG                                  .       ~       nS                                                                f
2     C..T'       32 D.NhSog                                            57                  5,1'>4-                 ET
C~B-            :4 Q-T   NP         ,          No,SS                ~             /3      o5
19-n Tong         49  4o9Roongi                                        N,
21 RN SE        31 ToD.ocI                                                                                                            I            
23     Non',n   33 T., MA ng
64 T             4,RO 6 D-,'O N,5 df                                                                                 Rnoo,dbHoopRn(nonI4n
62H'N-   5  D.o TMo                      IRAM.. /10



