                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25614

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-35110; TF-29167; TF-29443; TF-50047; TF-50356; TF-50261; TF-50260; TF-50357; TF-50690)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 197.2 MILLION (US$ 250 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                                 FOR A

                              POVERTY REDUCTION.SUPPORT CREDIT




                                              June 27, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 2003)

                     Currency Unit = Vietnamese Dong
                            1 VND = US$ 0.0000645
                             US$ 1 = VND 15,499

                           FISCAL YEAR
                         January   December

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
      ADB                        Asian Development Bank
      AFTA                       ASEAN Free Trade Area
      AMC                        Asset Management Company
      ASEAN                      Association of South East Asian Nations
      BIDV                       Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam
      CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
      CFAA                       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
      CG                         Consultative Group
      IAS                        International Accounting Standards
      GC                         General Corporation
      JSB                        Joint-Stock Bank
      ICBV                       Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam
      LDP                        Letter of Development Policy
      MOF                        Ministry of Finance
      MOLISA                     Ministry of Labor, Invalids, and Social Affairs
      MPI                        Ministry of Planning and Investment
      NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
      NPL                        Non-Performing Loans
      PER                        Public Expenditure Review
      PRGF                       Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
      PRSC                       Poverty Reduction Support Credit
      PRSP                       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      QR                         Quantitative Restrictions
      SBV                        State Bank of Vietnam
      SDSD                       Socioeconomic Development Strategy Document
      SME                        Small and Medium Enterprise
      SOCB                       State Owned Commercial Bank
      SOE                        State Owned Enterprise
      VBARD                      Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
      VCB                        Vietnam Commercial Bank



                    Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                  Country Director     Klaus Rohland. EACVF
Chief Economist and Sector Manager     Homi Kharas, EASPR
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Kazi Mahbub-al Matin, EACTF

                                              VIETNAM
                       VIETNAM - POVERTY REDUC.SUPPORT CREDIT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   2
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
    6. Sustainability                                                                21
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               23
    9. Partner Comments                                                              25
    10. Additional Information
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             32
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36
Annex 7

Project ID: P004850                                                      Project Name: VIETNAM - POVERTY
                                                                         REDUC.SUPPORT CREDIT
Team Leader: Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin                                        TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: VIETNAM - POVERTY REDUC.SUPPORT                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-35110; TF-29167;
                            CREDIT                                                                   TF-29443; TF-50047;
                                                                                                     TF-50356; TF-50261;
                                                                                                     TF-50260; TF-50357;
                                                                                                     TF-50690
   Country/Department: VIETNAM                                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (32%); Banking (32%); General
                            industry and trade sector (26%); General information and
                            communications sector (5%); General energy sector (5%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Standards
                            and financial reporting (S); Social risk coping (S); Regulation and
                            competition policy (S); Trade facilitation and market access (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/05/1997                                        Effective: 10/03/2001              10/03/2001
   Appraisal:    01/08/2001                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/05/2001                                         Closing: 12/31/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SOC.REP. OF VIETNAM/STATE BANK OF VIETNAM
                      Other Partners:      Cofinancing partners: Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United
                                           Kingdom

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Klaus Rohland                                  Andrew Steer
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    Homi Kharas
Team Leader at ICR:             Kazi Mahbub-Al Matin                           Kazi Matin
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S

                                                QAG (if available)    ICR
                              Quality at Entry:                       S
                   Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. Vietnam initiated a program of economic renovation or "doi moi" in the late
1980s. The "doi moi" generated a decade of rapid growth and exceptional poverty reduction. All
social indicators improved until 1997 making Vietnam a positive outlier in its per capita income
class. But this program stalled around the mid-1990s. With slowing reforms, there were signs of
a growth slowdown; the East Asian crisis accentuated the structural weaknesses and lowered
GDP growth sharply during the 1998-2000 period.

3.1.2. At the same time, however, the government wanted to restore the momentum of growth
quickly in order to ensure continued reductions in poverty. Investment and savings would need to
be raised and the employment-intensity of investment increased in order to secure growth in
employment, given the large annual additions to the labor force. It was explicitly recognized that
economy-wide reforms were needed to harness the dynamism of the Vietnamese enterprises:
reforms in banking and state-owned enterprises (SOEs), in trade policy, and in creating a
favorable environment for private sector development were needed.

3.1.3. The Bank's 1998 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) anticipated this need and laid out a
program to support the formulation and implementation of economic reforms as well as of human
and infrastructure investment aimed at rural growth and poverty reduction. Technical assistance
was to be provided to the government to design the reform program and to minimize social
disruption, drawing on experience of other countries. The CAS also envisaged a series of
adjustment credits to support the implementation of the program of reforms developed and
adopted by the government. This was reaffirmed in the CAS Progress Report in May 2000.

3.1.4. However, when the new lending instrument of Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC)
was introduced in late 2000 to support implementation of a country's poverty reduction strategy,
Vietnam was finalizing an Interim Poverty-Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) with a multi-year
reform program; at the same time, it completed the ten-year Socioeconomic Development
Strategy Document (SDSD) in early 2001. The World Bank decided to support the
implementation of the I-PRSP reform program with a PRSC which was approved by the Board in
June 2001.  1 It was expected that this first PRSC would be followed by a full PRSP in 2002 and a
series of PRSCs providing continued and predictable financial assistance to the government to
achieve its poverty reduction objectives. Subsequently, the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and
Growth Strategy (CPRGS ­ PRSP equivalent in Vietnam) was completed in September 2002 and
the second planned PRSC was approved by the Board on June 24, 2003.

3.1.5. Objectives. The objective of the three-year reform program in the I-PRSP supported by
PRSC 1 was to return Vietnam to higher growth and faster poverty reduction than during the
previous three years, i.e., 1998-2000. This was to be done through reforms in five key areas:



                                                   - 2 -

trade policy, private sector, banking, state enterprise sector and public expenditure management.

3.1.6. This objective was consistent with the government's view of dominant constraints to
faster poverty reduction in Vietnam as well as the World Bank's own assessment          2of the
country's policy and institutional framework. That assessment showed that Vietnam performed
better than the average of IDA countries with respect to macroeconomic management and
policies for social inclusion and equity, but did poorly with respect to structural policies and
public sector management. In fact, its performance on all social indicators was significantly better
than other countries in its income class.

3.1.7. It was expected that trade reforms and further liberalization of the domestic and foreign
private sector would increase competition for all enterprises and promote private firm growth.
With reforms enhancing transparency and accountability of SOEs, it was also expected that there
would be greater incentive for management to respond to greater competition with improved
efficiency in the use of resources. Similar reforms and restructuring of banking system were
expected to reduce policy and directed lending and increasingly harden the budget-constraints for
SOEs. The resulting increase in efficiency of SOEs and growth in private enterprises would
generate greater employment, higher growth and poverty reduction. Improved management of
public spending would ensure that increased revenue was better used to enhance poor people's
access to basic services.

3.1.8. As a result of these changes in policies and increased efficiency, the following key
outcomes were expected from a series of PRSCs, of which the recently-implemented PRSC was
the first one:

Key Outcomes Envisaged by End of PRSC Program Period


                  Areas and Indicators                             End-period-Outcomes*

 1. Overall:

    a) GDP growth rate                                    a) 7% (up from 5.5%)
    b) Poverty Incidence                                  b) 25% (down from 37 in 1997/98)

2. Private Sector:
   a) Total private investment                            a) 11% of GDP (up from 8%)
   b) Foreign investment                                  b) 3.5% of GDP (up from 2%)
   c) Private SMEs                                        c) 30,000 new firms

3. Banking System
   a) All commercial banks                                a) Compliance with banking regulations
   b) Share of credit to private sector                   b) 60-65% (up from 55%)

4. State-Owned-Enterprises:
   a) SOE-sector performance data                         a) Available annually
   b) SOE sector                                          b) Higher share of profitable SOEs
   c) SOE equitizations, sales, liquidations*             c) Around 1800 SOEs

5. Openness
   a) Export/GDP ratio                                    a) 50% of GDP (up from 47%)



                                                 - 3 -

   b) Share of manufactured/processed products in total               b) 40-45% of exports (up from 37%)
          exports

6.   Public Expenditure:
     a) Budgetary data                                                a) Timely, consistent, comprehensive data from
                                                                           treasury's public financial management
                                                                           system.
     b) Equity for provinces' social spending                         b) Poor provinces' per capita social-sector
                                                                           spending will reach `current' national
                                                                           average.
 7.    Social Sector
   a) Net primary enrollment rate*                                    a) 93% (up from 91%)
   b) Net secondary enrollment rate*                                  b) 73% percent (up from 70%)
   c) Infant mortality rate per 1000                                  c) 23 (down from 26)
   d) Under-five mortality rate per 1000                              d) 34 (down from 37)
   e) Child malnutrition (stunting incidence)*                        e) 29% (down from 34% in 1997/98)

Note: * Outcomes from the government's sectoral strategies.


Footnotes for Section 3


1. The PRSC 1 was originally planned as the second Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC 2), an integral part of the package of
programmatic SACs designed to help the Vietnamese government to carry out its policy and structural reform program as was
reaffirmed in the CAS Progress Report in May 2000. The planned second SAC eventually took the PRSC form during the
transition to the new lending instrument.


2. Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA) is done annually for all borrowers of the Bank Group.



3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1.    None

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The first PRSC supported macroeconomic stability and economy-wide reforms in five
areas: trade policy, private sector, SOE sector, banking and public expenditure management.
The following were the objectives of each:

3.3.2. Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability. Given Vietnam's sustained good macroeconomic
performance, the task was to maintain it in the future, so that growth can follow the
implementation of reforms. For this purpose, it was expected that fiscal deficit would be
maintained at levels that require no bank financing and domestic credit growth would be
restrained to a rate that would keep inflation down. This meant that the current IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) would be implemented as agreed and the program would
remain on track.

3.3.3. Opening up Trade. The objective of trade reforms were to promote increased
competition for domestic producers, larger export markets and easier access to imports by the
private sector. For this purpose, PRSC 1 supported the granting of trading rights to all firms
registered in Vietnam, the removal of quantitative import restrictions multilaterally on 17 groups



                                                           - 4 -

of items (leaving quantitative restrictions -- QRs -- only on sugar and petroleum) and the
elimination of rice export quotas. Signing and ratification of the United States Bilateral Trade
Agreement (USBTA) was also accomplished over this period, which committed Vietnam to a
phased liberalization of services sectors over several years. Also the publication of the roadmap
of a phased reduction of tariffs on imports from ASEAN, with the first two years reductions
undertaken during the PRSC program, exposed SOEs to more competition as well.

3.3.4. Improving Climate for Private Sector Development. The goal for this component was to
ease entry and operation of domestic private firms and to strengthen their access to land-use
rights and credits, as well as to encourage growth of foreign investment. The implementation of
the Enterprise Law and the removal of nearly 195 licensing requirements would make it easier for
domestic private businesses to register their firms and begin operation. Revisions to Land Law,
the issuance of securities regulations and the establishment of registries in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City would allow land-use rights to be used as equity and as collateral, making it easier for private
firms to operate.

3.3.5. The revision of the Foreign Investment Law would permit foreign investors to set up
export-oriented enterprises through automatic registration, simplify the process for modifying
corporate structures of existing foreign-invested enterprises (i.e., for expansion, or for conversion
to wholly foreign-owned companies), lift restrictions on access to foreign exchange and allow
mortgages of land-use rights of foreign-invested enterprises by all banks in Vietnam. (The two
mega-projects in energy ­ the Nam Con Son private gas development and pipeline project of
$1,400 million and the Phu My 2.2 build-operate-transfer private undertaking of $400 million
were subsequently made possible in 2001 by this revision, which allowed government guarantees
for such projects.)

3.3.6. SOE Reforms. This was meant to hive off some SOEs to private ownership through
equitization, while increasing the transparency, accountability and efficiency of the SOEs
remaining in government ownership. However, the government felt that privatizing the large
SOEs before developing a robust domestic private sector would lead to a takeover of the modern
sector by foreign firms. Thus the SOE reform program sought to impose market discipline on
wholly-owned SOEs through general measures like trade reforms, private firm promotion,
harder budget constraints coming from both budget and banks, greater transparency of
information on SOE performance and increased accountability of management for performance.

3.3.7. The specific SOE measures were aimed at altering incentives through changes in
ownership and included the following: (i) major equitizations (65 percent shares are to be sold to
non-state shareholders and no dominant state shareholding); (ii) minor equitizations (shares sold
to non-state shareholders and dominant state shareholding with enterprises operating under the
Enterprise Law); (iii) outright sales; (iv) liquidation; and (v) restructuring according to a
time-bound action plans. This restructuring related to large wholly SOEs; when exposed to
general measures of competition and hard-budget constraints they would want to restructure,
using initially some funding that would permit them to use external expertise for such
restructuring. Vinatex, Vinacafe and Seaprodex were the three large state-owned general
corporations that volunteered for such restructuring using external consultants, a response to the



                                                  - 5 -

heightened competition that was expected.

3.3.8. Banking Reforms. The objective of banking reforms was to enhance transparency,
accountability of management and efficiency of banks. This was to be done by establishing a
better legal regulatory and supervisory regime, improving transparency by encouraging regular
auditing of banks and restructuring of joint stock banks (JSBs) and state-owned-commercial
banks (SOCBs). The restructuring of JSBs were carried out rapidly to reduce the number of JSBs
and to strengthen those that continued. The legal and regulatory regime was also to be improved
successfully, bringing loan-loss provisioning and other prudential rules in line with regional and
international standards. Progress in strengthening supervision was very limited, however, since
institutional strengthening took time.

3.3.9. The four large SOCBs were to prepare detailed restructuring plans and received direct
technical assistance grants to support their implementation. Among the measures included were
annual auditing of the banks using internationally reputed auditors and international accounting
standards as well as sharing the findings with all senior level decision-makers in the Vietnamese
government. They also planned to phase out policy and non-commercial directed lending; in the
transition, SOCBs would be able to seek and receive Ministry of Finance (MOF) guarantees if
they were expected to continue some policy lending, so that bank managers would not be
responsible for those loans' performance. The capitalization of these SOCBs were to be phased
and conditional; this would ensure that SOCBs would conduct restrained and prudent lending
until restructuring and re-capitalization are completed after three-years, as well as maintaining
management's incentive to continue restructuring according to agreed plans. Again, like in SOEs,
if management was unable to minimize non-performing loans (NPLs) and restore profitability they
would have to be accountable for that performance.

3.3.10. Public Expenditure Management. The government came a long way in improving public
expenditure management. It sought to enhance transparency by publishing annually budget plan
and outturn since 2000, with increasingly more detailed breakdown. Commune budgets were
expected to be posted publicly in the commune offices. The joint government-donor public
expenditure review, with its matrix of recommended measures, has been used as the basis for
continuing action. Measures to ensure comprehensive, consistent, proper and timely classification
of budgetary information and availability of budget line items information and re-balancing of
capital and recurrent expenditures were to be undertaken. The Treasury was to be made the key
source of government accounts and is being strengthened.

3.3.11. Mitigating Social Costs of Reform Program. SOE and trade reforms would enhance
employment and output over the medium term, but would also lead to significant job losses in the
short term; and for that mitigating measures were part and parcel of PRSC 1. Based on
reasonably rigorous estimates, labor redundancy was not expected to exceed 100,000 in any
particular year. In order to assist displaced workers, a social safety net fund was established with
rules that ensured gender-neutrality and age-neutrality in respect of benefits from this fund.

3.3.12 Poverty alleviation impact. The program supported by PRSC 1 was expected to have a
favorable impact on the incomes of the poor from three sources. First, higher household income



                                                 - 6 -

for the poor would come from expanding employment opportunities and rising rates of return of
various activities. including agriculture and non-farm activities. Second, increased consumption
of lower prices of goods and services would be generated by increased competition. Third,
expanded provisions of health and education services for the poor would be realized through
higher revenues, better targeting and improved public expenditure management.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1. No revisions were made to the above components.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 The "quality of entry" of the operation is satisfactory.

3.5.2 This Credit supported reforms that were developed by the government deliberately and
purposefully over a long period of time. Donors, including the Bank, provided technical support
to expose policymakers to international experience with similar reforms as well as for the analysis
of Vietnam's own specific situation. A lot of effort was also made by all parties to develop
mitigating measures to offset the transitional impact on employment. In addition, the government
conducted several rounds of consensus-building workshops and seminars not only within
government agencies in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City but also across the country.

3.5.3 This was reflected in the government's I-PRSP which laid out a clearly articulated
multi-year reform program. The rationale for reforms and the direction of changes were also
articulated in the ten-year Socioeconomic Development Strategy Document. The government's
CPRGS, which was finalized in September 2002, reiterated the same reform program a year later,
and proposed policy changes in respect of social sectors and rural development.

3.5.4. Strong government ownership was also evident from the numerous important reform
measures that were implemented between 1999-2000, much before the Bank approved PRSC 1 in
June 2001 (see Box 1).

                   Box 1. Upfront Actions prior to Board Approval of PRSC 1




                                                - 7 -

 A. The environment for the private sector was enhanced with
   ·   Approval of the Enterprise Law;
   ·   Removal of business licenses in 145 different trades, industries and services to facilitate entry by
       private firms;
   ·   Revision of the Foreign Investment Law that would permit, among other things, automatic
       registration of export oriented investments and government guarantees for large projects.
 B. The SOE sector.
   ·   Equitization was completed for 408 SOEs.
 C. In the banking sector, the government implemented the following:
   ·   Separation of policy lending from commercial lending with the establishment of the National
       Development Support Fund and a separate bank for social policy lending to phase out policy
       lending from SOCBs;
   ·   Actions undertaken to strengthened JSBs with closure, merger and under special control of the
       SBV; and
   ·   A comprehensive SOCB restructuring plan for Vietcombank, one of the four large SOCBs, for
       implementation under the program.
 D. In the trade sector, the authorities
   ·   Adoption of the AFTA roadmap on tariff reduction;
   ·   Liberalization of trading rights for all domestic enterprises and expanded trading rights of
       foreign-invested enterprises; and
   ·   Removal of quantitative restrictions from 8 product groups while a timetable for further QRs
       removal was adopted.
 E. In the public sector management,
   ·   Completion of a public expenditure review and finalization of a detailed timetable for the
       implementation of its recommendations over the following two years; and
   ·   Initiation of an integrated public financial management project (approved by the Board in May
       2003) to address the key weaknesses identified by the PER and the now completed CFAA.




3.5.5 The government's reform program, supported by PRSC 1, was discussed jointly with the
IMF. In fact, in Vietnam, tripartite (government, World Bank and IMF) policy meetings were
common as were joint missions; the latter were facilitated by the presence of most of the Bank's
PRSC team in Hanoi. There was thus complete coordination and collaboration in supporting the
government's reform program and developing Bank and IMF financial assistance. In fact the
discussion with the government on its Memorandum of Financial and Economic Program to the
IMF and its Letter of Development Policy (LDP) to the Bank were done at the same time in the
same room in Hanoi, going in parallel through both documents with the IMF team, the World
Bank team and the government delegation. There were also joint reports with the IMF as well as
joint meetings on the I-PRSP.

3.5.6 In addition, donors have been supporting reforms in the areas cited above for a long time
through technical assistance. There were donor-government-NGO working groups in the areas of
SOE reform, banking reform, public expenditure management reform, trade policy as well as
private sector and these groups were mobilizing grant financing for supporting the analytical work



                                                   - 8 -

and workshops for formulating the reform program. While four bilateral donors co-financed the
PRSC, most of them continued to provide millions of dollars in technical assistance grants to
support implementation of the program.

3.5.7 The Credit clearly recognized the high-risk high-return nature of the operation. Major
risks to the operation were accurately assessed and clearly highlighted in the preparation of the
program. These ranged from possible erosion of existing political support for the reform program
to resistance that could develop from the losers in the reform program or the possible insufficient
and inequitable distribution of gains from reforms. Weak institutional and human capacity could
also pose challenge to the pace of implementation. There was the risk of insufficient higher level
of coordination and inappropriate sequencing of individual components of the package. Other
risks highlighted included significant rise in costs of recapitalization of SOCBs, though credit
ceilings in the IMF program were expected to mitigate them.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Overall, the outcome of the program in terms of achieving its objectives is assessed as
satisfactory. All five areas of the reform program, as elaborated in the policy matrix of the LDP,
were implemented satisfactorily, though the SOE reforms took longer and there were some
slippages. In terms of the 12 actions for the second tranche release, Vietnam succeeded in
completing all except one, which was partially completed for factors beyond its control (discussed
further in details below) as PRSC 1 closed.   3 Actions supported by PRSC 1 were all completed
on time, without requiring any extension of the closing date. The impact was positive: private
investment and exports rose, GDP growth was higher, and the pace of poverty reduction
increased.

4.1.2 Implementation was a major challenge, but Vietnam met it quite well given donors'
technical assistance and the strong technical support provided by the Bank team in Hanoi. This
was the first time that the government was implementing a program across at least five different
ministries in a time-bound manner. In fact, the relatively decentralized nature of SOE reform
spread across hundreds of SOEs that are overseen by a score of different provinces and a
half-dozen ministries was even more demanding. The Steering Committee headed by the First
Deputy Prime Minister and a Secretariat headed by a Deputy Governor of the State Bank of
Vietnam (SBV) helped ensure the removal of bottlenecks, whenever they were brought to their
attention ­ but this was possible in part because of the consensus and ownership that were built
before adopting the program of reforms.

4.1.3 The table below summarizes the achievements and outcomes of the reform program
supported by PRSC 1.


Key Development Outcomes: Envisioned as of 2001 and Actual


         Areas and Indicators             Expected outcomes at the            Progress as of 2002
                                               end of 2004 *



                                                 - 9 -

                  Overall
  a) GDP growth rate                         a) 7 % (up from 5.5%)                      a) 6%
  b) Poverty Incidence                       b) 25% (down from 37% in 1997/98)          b) 32% (1997); 29% (prel 2002)
              Private Sector
  a) Total private investment                a) 11% of GDP (up from 8%)                 a) 9% of GDP
  b) Foreign investment                      b) 3.5% of GDP (up from 2%)                b) 3.2% of GDP
  c) Private SMEs                            c) 30,000 new firms                        c) 50,000 new firms
              Banking System
  a) All commercial banks                    a) Compliance with banking                a) 12 non-compliant JSBs closed
  b) Share of credit to private sector       regulations                               b) 60%
                                             b) 60-65% (up from 55%)
         State-Owned-Enterprises
  a) SOE-sector performance data             a) Available annually                      a) Data not available yet
  b) SOE sector                              b) Higher share of profitable SOEs         b) Same as above
  c) SOE equitizations, sales, liquidations  c) Around 1800 SOEs                        c) 408, as of October 2002
  *
                Openness
  a) Export/GDP ratio                        a) 50% of GDP (up from 47%)               a) 48% of GDP
  b) Share of manufactured/processed         b) 40-45% of exports (up from 37%)        b) 48% of exports
     products in total exports
           Public Expenditure:
  a) Budgetary data                          a) Timely, consistent, comprehensive      a) Data availability has improved;
                                                data from treasury's public                tender for consultants to design a
                                                financial                                  comprehensive FMIS system is
                                                management system.                         ongoing.
  b) Equity for provinces' social                                                      b) Provincial PER to evaluate
  spending                                   b) Poor provinces' per capita                 outcomes to be initiated in early
                                                social-sector spending will reach          2003.
                                                `current' national average.
              Social Sectors
  a) Net primary school enrollment rate       a) 93% (up from 91%)                      Numbers will be available in 2003 as
  b) Net secondary school enrollment          b) 73% (up from 70%)                      Vietnam Living Standards Survey
  rate                                        c) 23 (down from 26)                      2002, led by GSO with UNDP &
  c) Infant mortality rate per 1000           d) 34 (down from 37)                      WB TA, is ongoing.
  d) Under-five mortality rate per 1000       e) 29% (down from 34% in 1997/98)
  e) Child malnutrition (stunting
     incidence)


Footnote for Section 4.1

3.       This action which called for the preparation of detailed restructuring plans for the three GCs has been subsequently
completed in June 2003 and their adoption is expected in the third quarter of 2003..

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1. Macroeconomic Policy Framework. Vietnam maintained an appropriate macroeconomic
policy framework during the 2001-03 period. Real GDP growth rate averaged around 6 percent
in 2001 and 2002, despite the adverse external environment that constrained export growth to
only an annual average of 7 percent over those two years. This was driven by a recovery in
private investment, especially in domestic investment, and a continuing rise in domestic
consumption. The strong track record on price stability was continued. After hovering around 1
percent for three years (1999-2001), inflation rose to 4 percent for 2002, in part due to the
strengthening of world rice prices and in part due to rising domestic prices of construction
materials. Fiscal and monetary policies continued to be prudent, with overall fiscal deficit



                                                           - 10 -

narrowing to 2.5 percent of GDP in 2002, and being financed mainly from concessional external
resources. Domestic credit grew by about 22 percent with growth of credit to SOEs constrained
to 12 percent.

4.2.2. The IMF's PRGF program has been on track. The first two IMF reviews were completed
successfully, while the third one was delayed due to a lack of agreement on safeguard measures.     4


Bank and Fund staff have been working together closely and the IMF staff have indicated that
both the macro framework and the structural reforms under PRGF are satisfactory. The Fund
mission that visited Hanoi most recently in June 2003 confirmed the adequacy of the current
macroeconomic framework and that the PRGF program is indeed on track.

4.2.3. Private Sector Development. Most of the actions envisaged in the program were
implemented and the overall climate for private sector development improved significantly. In
addition, the National Assembly approved changes to the Constitution, acknowledging private
sector a key sector of the economy and recognizing the rights of enterprises and entrepreneurs to
determine their forms of business and to operate in sectors not prohibited. The Fifth Party
Plenum in March 2002 endorsed the private sector as an important contributor to employment
creation, income generation and budget revenues, called on the leaders to encourage the private
sector and issued a resolution proposing policies to facilitate private sector development.

4.2.4. The private sector currently leads the growth process in Vietnam. Manufacturing thrives,
with the private domestic and the foreign-invested sectors recording annual output growth rates
of 19 and 15 percent respectively, while the state sector achievements were more modest at 12
percent in year-on-year output growth. This records a gradual but unmistakable transition to a
market economy, with many SOEs now facing increasing competitive pressures and harder budget
constraints. The formal private sector now employs one million people, which represents almost
two thirds of employment in SOEs.

4.2.5. Private domestic and foreign investment levels are underway towards reaching the
proposed outcome. Total private investment, which is programmed to reach 11 percent of GDP
by 2004, now stands at 9 percent of GDP. Foreign direct investment has increased to 3.2 percent
of GDP (programmed to attain 3.5 percent by 2004), up from 2 percent of GDP in 2000. Over
the past five years, the implementation of foreign direct investment has been relatively stable,
while commitments and approvals of new foreign investment projects have fluctuated
significantly. In the same period, the overall share of foreign capital actually flowing into the
country under implemented projects has been rising.

4.2.6. Specifically over this period, 51 business licenses affecting private entry and operation
were removed or modified and a decree outlining support for private SME-development was
issued. The secured transactions registration agency was made operational in both Hanoi and Ho
Chi Minh City to facilitate execution of mortgages permitted under the Securities regulations
eighteen months ago. Steps have also been taken to gradually phase out dual pricing for foreign
and domestic entities.

4.2.7. The resulting improvement in the business climate has been reflected in the growth of



                                                - 11 -

domestic private firms. New registrations rose from 3000 a year in 1997-99 period to 12,000 in
2000 to 18,000 in 2001 and to 20,000 in 2002. Also in trade the role of private (domestic and
foreign) firms grew rapidly: in non-oil exports it rose from 45 percent in 1999 to 60 percent in
2002 and in non-oil imports it went from 47 percent to 60 percent over the same period.
Domestic firms raised their share too: from 18 percent to 27 percent in non-oil exports and from
15 percent to 22 percent in non-oil imports.

4.2.8. Exports have also performed remarkably well despite a very adverse global environment.
Annual growth rate has averaged 7 percent a year over 2001-02, which is commendable. This has
not only raised the GDP share of exports but also the share of manufactures in total exports. The
phenomenal increase in exports to the United States in 2002 as a result of the USBTA is quite
remarkable, despite Chinese competition.

4.2.9. SOE Reforms. Vietnam has been implementing a comprehensive SOE reform plan
comprising enterprise-specific measures to divest small and medium enterprises from the SOE
sector and general measures to promote greater transparency, competition and financial
accountability for the SOEs remaining in government hands. Despite implementation difficulties,
overall progress in carrying out this component of the program has been satisfactory.

4.2.10. The enterprise-specific measures proved to be the most difficult to implement in a
time-bound manner. Improvements in the legal framework for enterprise measures ­ in respect of
the redesigned social safety net and the more streamlined equitization process ­ were satisfactorily
completed. To date, equitizations, sales and liquidations of 408 SOEs have been completed
accounting for 2.5 percent of SOE debt and around 5 percent of SOE employment, in line with
what was planned for the three-year program. In addition, diagnostic audits of 17 SOEs have
been done and 13 others are being completed. On the general measures, satisfactory liberalization
of trade, promotion of private sector development (as indicated above) and banking reform have
contributed to increased competition and greater financial accountability.

4.2.11. The impact of this equitization was clearly favorable even if its quantitative significance
was small. A survey of around 700 equitized SOEs in 2002 shows that they performed
remarkably better after equitization. On average, sales grew by 20 percent a year and value-added
by 26 percent a year, implying considerable increase in efficiency of input use; employment rose
at 4 percent a year and wages grew at 12 percent a year, suggesting that most of the benefits of
equitization went to workers. Total profits of the sampled equitized SOEs grew nearly five fold.

4.2.12. Financial Sector. In early 2001, the implementation of a comprehensive multi-year
banking reform program aimed at improving regulation and supervision, enhancing transparency
and accountability of banks, improving the financial health of the banking system and creating
incentives for banks to operate on a more commercially-oriented basis. Overall progress in
carrying out reforms has been satisfactory.

4.2.13. Specifically, regulations were issued regarding rules for loan classification and loan-loss
provisioning and the four large SOCBs completed international accounting standard financial
audits for 2000 and signed contracts for and/or initiated similar audits for the year 2001. The



                                                - 12 -

decree establishing a policy bank that would provide loans at subsidized rates to vulnerable
groups has been issued, taking this activity away from the four SOCBs. Progress in the
introduction of international accounting standards for the banking system has been slower than
expected, though a plan has been drawn up. The first year of restructuring of the JSBs and the
SOCBs has been completed successfully. On strengthening supervision, implementation of a
CAMEL system has been delayed but an implementation plan has been developed and a revised
manual for strengthening on-site supervision has been completed.

4.2.14. Trade. Vietnam has removed QRs, reduced tariffs under the Asian Free Trade Area
(AFTA) agreement, and raised private participation in exports. QRs on cement, clinker, paper,
liquor, floor tiles, construction glass, steel and vegetable oil were eliminated multilaterally,
without raising tariffs, except for vegetable oil. As a result, the coverage of QRs fell from 20
percent of imports and 22 percent of production at the beginning of the period to 13 percent and
4 percent respectively at the end of it. Implementation of the first-year tariff reductions under
AFTA has been broadly on track, with the average tariff on imports from ASEAN countries
falling to 11 percent. On the export side, private participation in rice and garments has continued
to rise. Export quotas, which currently only exist for garment exports to Europe (imposed by the
European Union), were being partially auctioned and partially licensed automatically, the latter on
a first-come-first-serve basis. This auctioning and automatic licensing had the effect of increasing
private participation in garment exports.

4.2.15. Public Expenditure Management. The first of the three-year program of this component
was implemented satisfactorily. The budget plan and final accounts, including greater sectoral
details, were published and placed on MOF website. The Treasury was designated as the main
agency responsible for comprehensive public accounts. Preparations to install a comprehensive
budgetary management information system in the Treasury are underway. An inventory of the
off-budget accounts has been made, including a detailed statement for the Development
Assistance Fund (DAF); a review of "norms" for recurrent budget allocations has been
completed, and recurrent budget implications of the public investment program have been
estimated. The process for developing a medium-term sector expenditure program has been
initiated. The government has just initiated a project to establish a public financial management
information system to supplement the reforms implemented so far, and has committed to continue
this course of action over the next several years.

4.2.16. Poverty Alleviation and Social Sectors. Considerable progress has been made in the
social areas. The proportion of people with per capita expenditures under the total poverty line
has dropped dramatically from 58 percent in 1993, to 37 percent in 1998, and to an estimated 29
percent in 2002, according to preliminary survey results. Gains in poverty reduction have been
widespread. Poverty has declined in all seven regions of Vietnam, though the rate of decline and
incidence of poverty vary greatly across regions. Yet poverty remains widespread and deep.
Further integration with the world economy could increase the gap between urban and rural areas,
as well as between skilled and unskilled. The effective delivery of social services to the poor is
key to sustain further poverty reduction.

4.2.17. The coverage of basic education expanded dramatically in the 1990s. Net enrollment rates



                                                   - 13 -

for primary schools increased from 87 percent in 1993 to 91 percent in 1998. Gains were even
more impressive at the lower-secondary level (from 30 percent to 62 percent), and especially at
the upper-secondary level (where they quadrupled). Expansion in enrolments has been
characterized by equal access for boys and girls. While the enrolment statistics are encouraging,
disparities in enrolment between the Kinh majority and ethnic minorities are a source of concern.
Regional disparities are sizeable as well, especially in terms of student performance. This is a
cause for concern and suggests that Vietnam has a big task ahead to improve quality of education.
Improving the quality of the teaching and learning is necessary to build a strong foundation for
universal lower secondary education, targeted for 2010.

4.2.18. Child mortality and maternal mortality have fallen to levels typically observed in countries
whose income per capita is two to three times higher. Malnutrition among children, although still
high by international standards, fell considerably during the second half of the 1990s. If the pace
were to be maintained, Vietnam could cut the 1990 malnutrition rate by half as of 2015. On the
other hand, there is a growing however,inequality in health outcomes between the poor and the
better off. FurthermoreReliance on out-of-pocket payments is noticeably high by international
standards, putting a heavy burden on the poor. Self-treatment has become more common,
potentially escalating the level of antibiotic resistance among the population. Coping with a
developing HIV/AIDS epidemic is a major challenge as well.


Specific Conditionality Actions Undertaken under PRSC 1

4.2.19. This section reviews the upfront actions prior to Board presentation and the status of
twelve specific actions that were required to be completed prior to the release of the second
tranche, as listed in Schedule 2 to the DCA and referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of the DCA.

4.2.20. Upfront actions. Prior to the Board presentation, the government had created an enabling
environment for the private sector with a series of specific measures while undertaking steps for
structural reforms in the sectors covering SOEs, banking, trade, and public expenditure
management.

4.2.21. The environment for the private sector was enhanced with the approval of the Enterprise
Law and the removal of business licenses in 145 different trades, industries and services to
facilitate entry by private firms. The Foreign Investment Law was revised that would permit,
among other things, automatic registration of export oriented investments and government
guarantees for large projects.

4.2.22. The SOE sector. Equitization was completed for more than 408 SOEs and a
comprehensive five-year SOE reform program was adopted with annual targets for three years
concerning the enterprise-specific measures covering one third of all SOEs.

4.2.23. In the banking sector, the government carried out the separation of policy lending from
commercial lending with the establishment of the National Development Support Fund and a
separate bank for social policy lending to phase out policy lending from SOCBs. Actions were



                                                  - 14 -

undertaken to strengthen JSBs with closure, merger and under SBV special control. A
comprehensive SOCB restructuring plan for Vietcombank, one of the four large SOCBs, has been
adopted.

4.2.24. In the trade sector, the authorities adopted the AFTA roadmap on tariff reduction,
liberalized trading rights for all domestic enterprises and expanded trading rights of
foreign-invested enterprises. In addition, quantitative restrictions were removed from the 8
product groups while a timetable for further QRs removal was adopted.

4.2.25. In the public sector management, a Public Expenditure Review (PER) was completed and
detailed timetable for the implementation of its recommendations over the following two years
was finalized. Preparation was initiated for the implementation of a Public Financial Management
Reform Project (approved by the Board in May 2003) to address the key weaknesses identified by
the PER and the now completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA).

4.2.26. Second Tranche Release Actions. The government implemented the following actions to
fulfill the commitment for the second tranche release.

4.2.27. Removed or modified business licenses of at least 50 trades, industries and services, so that entry
in those sub-sectors is eased: completed. Between May 2001 and July 2002, 51 such licenses and
licensing requirements were removed and 10 were modified. Following the removal of 145
business licenses and licensing requirements before May 2001 in various industries, trades, and
service, a detailed review of the remaining business licenses was carried out during 2001 and early
2002, with a view to rationalizing the overall business licensing regime.      5




4.2.28. Streamlined the equitization process to expand capital and security markets, to remove existing
ceilings on shareholdings by individuals and legal entities in equitized state-owned enterprises (SOEs),
to improve transparency of the process, and to move responsibility for issuing, selling and registering
shares out of individual SOE's management: completed. The process of equitization has been further
streamlined through Decree No. 64 in June 2002 (No. 64/2002/ND-CP) and its implementing
regulations.  6




4.2.29. Completed major equitization (i.e., selling more than 65 percent of shares to non-State
shareholders and having no dominant or special State shares), sale under Decree No. 103-1999-ND-CP
of September 10, 1999 on Transfer, Sale, Management Contract and Lease of State Enterprises, or
liquidation of at least 200 SOEs, with the equitized and sold SOEs operating and existing under the
Enterprise Law: completed. A total of 208 SOEs have completed major equitizations (selling more
than 65 percent shares), outright sales or liquidations, and those sold and equitized are operating
under the Enterprise Law.    7   Of the outright sales under Decree No. 103, 52 SOEs were
transferred to employees for no consideration (sale at zero price). These transfers of an entire
SOE permitted rapid divestment of enterprises out of government hands, a key objective of SOE
reform, though generating no proceeds for the Treasury.

4.2.30. Completed minor equitization (i.e., sales of shares with the State having dominant or special
shares) of at least 200 SOEs, with the equitized SOEs operating and existing under the Enterprise Law:
completed. Minor equitization of 200 SOEs have been done.         8




                                                   - 15 -

4.2.31. Adopted detailed restructuring plans for Seaprodex, Vinatex and Vinacafe General Corporations
(GCs), including a timetable of specific actions to be taken to improve corporate governance and
competitiveness of key SOEs in these GCs (de-regulation of entry into SOE subsectors, new corporate
governance mechanisms for the GCs, equitization or sale of non-core assets, liquidation of non-viable
operations, installation of appropriate accounting and management information system) and specific
operational targets for cost-reduction and revenue growth: a waiver was requested and approved at the
project closed. Key implementation steps were delayed, as every stage of the process proved to be
more complex and time-consuming than envisaged.          9 The additional efforts and time spent were
critical to maintain the integrity of the process and support for the restructuring. The international
consulting firm to help GCs to develop detailed restructuring plans was selected and work began
in early January 2003. The Vietnamese authorities are fully committed to the multi-year
SOE-reform program as cited in the CPRGS, including the restructuring of the three GCs, and the
completion of the restructuring plans in June 2003 did not adversely affect the implementation of
the overall program supported by the PRSC series or any of its components. For these reasons, a
waiver was granted for this action on a no-objection basis. Detailed restructuring plans for the
three GCs have been subsequently completed in June 2003 and the adoption is expected in the
third quarter of 2003.

4.2.32. Modified the design of the fund established to finance the social safety net for state-owned
enterprises workers, put the fund as modified into operation with dedicated staff in adequate numbers
and completed a review and written report on the disbursement performance of the fund: completed.
The redesigned Social Safety Net Fund was established in June 2002 under Decree No. 41 and its
implementing regulations, providing compensation package more generous than under the Labor
Code for the period of intensive reform, in order to encourage voluntary redundancy. It will also
cover, on the same terms, involuntary redundancy from equitizations, sales, liquidations and the
restructuring of SOEs. The package has a substantial lump-sum component so as to minimize age
or gender biases in compensation. This Fund has been staffed and training completed for the staff
of the Fund as well as of Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MOLISA), of MOF, and of
selected SOEs. A consulting unit has been set up by MOF to support SOEs in developing
proposals for accessing resources from this Fund. Twenty four SOEs have submitted proposals.
Eleven of these proposals have been processed, with total disbursement of VND 10 billion (or
US$ 0.7 million equivalent). Annual reviews of the disbursement performance are being planned.


4.2.33. Removed Quantitative Restrictions vis-à-vis all countries, from all tariff lines for clinker and
paper, replacing them with tariffs where necessary and appropriate: completed. Removal of
quantitative restrictions on imports from all countries proceeded faster than envisaged under the p
rogram, including clinker and paper, construction glass, steel, vegetable oil, floor tiles and liquor.
Tariffs for these products have been left unchanged, except for clinker where it has been lowered,
and for vegetable oil where it has been increased from 40 to 50 percent.

4.2.34. Adopted restructuring plans for four state-owned commercial banks (Vietnam Commercial Bank
(VCB), Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (VBARD), Bank for Investment and
Development of Vietnam (BIDV) and Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam (ICBV) in accordance
with the key principles of State Bank of Vietnam's State-owned Commercial Bank restructuring



                                                   - 16 -

framework, and achieved the first year milestones of said restructuring plan: completed. The four large
SOCBs adopted restructuring plans in accordance with the key principles of the SBV's SOCB
restructuring framework and broadly achieved the first year milestones in the following four areas:
(i) completed international standard audits for the year 2000, using international auditing firms,
signed contracts for doing similar audits for the year 2001 and begun to address
audit-qualifications; (ii) established loan work-out units and asset management subsidiaries for
resolving troubled loans; (iii) collectively resolved the target amount of 1.4 trillion Dong of NPLs
in the first year; (iv) several steps taken to establish a credit risk management committee and an
independent audit committee.      10
                                           .


4.2.35. Closed nine joint-stock banks (JSBs) under State Bank of Vietnam intervention and ensured
compliance of all remaining JSBs with existing regulations: completed. Licenses of 12 JSBs were
revoked as of September 30, 2002, of which 9 were revoked since April 2001. The total number
of JSBs currently in operation stand at 36, of which 34 meet the existing capital requirements.
The remaining two are under SBV special control. Thus all 36 remaining JSBs comply with
existing regulations.

4.2.36. Amended Decision No. 284/2000/QD-NHNN1 of August 25, 2000 Issuing Regulation on Lending
to Clients of Credit Institutions to bring criteria for loan-classification by banks in accordance with
international practice, and initiated implementation of revised criteria for classification of
non-performing loans as well as for their provisioning: completed. Decision No.
1627/2001/QD-NHNN amending Decision No. 284/2000/QD-NHNN1 of August 25, 2000 was
issued on December 31, 2001, bringing the criteria of loan-classification by banks in line with
international practice.  11




4.2.37. Completed audits of financial statements for the 2000 fiscal year of VCB, VBARD, BIDV, and
ICBV in accordance with international auditing and accounting standards by international auditors
acceptable to the Association and furnished said audits to the Association: completed. The financial
audits for the year 2000 for all four SOCBs have been completed in accordance with international
accounting and auditing standards and the agreed terms of reference. The Bank has found these
consistent with the agreed terms of reference.

4.2.38 Improved transparency and reliability of national budgetary information by designating the
Borrower's State Treasury as the agency responsible for a comprehensive management information
system for government expenditures and by publishing sectoral breakdowns of at least 75 percent of total
government spending: completed. MOF designated the State Treasury as the agency responsible for
a comprehensive management information system for government expenditures and this has been
incorporated in the revisions of the Budget Law submitted to the National Assembly. The Bank is
supporting the Treasury in establishing a comprehensive and automated management information
system through a project that is under preparation. MOF has continued to improve transparency
of the national budget in various ways, including publication of the budget in July 2002, which
covers final accounts for 2000 and the budget plan for 2002, with more detailed budgetary data
for 2000, including sector by sector information, covering about 79.5 percent of total spending.         12


The 2000 accounts and 2002 budget are available on the MOF website.

Footnote for Section 4.



                                                     - 17 -

4.        The safeguard policy issue related to the requirement of central banks to prepare financial statements in accordance
with an established accounting framework, such as IAS, have these statements audited independently, in accordance with
international standards; and publish these statements. The IMF and the government are working on possible approaches to
compliance with the safeguard policy.
5.        The review sought to identify those licenses that were redundant and thus removable, and those that were necessary
to protect consumers, or to ensure adequate quality, or to prevent environmental degradation and so on, but could be modified
so that they were not required to be obtained before entry.
6.        This Decree, which replaces the earlier one (Decree No. 44), has removed previous ceilings on shareholdings by
individuals and entities in equitized enterprises, improved transparency of the process by requiring advertisement of the sale 30
days in advance, and moved responsibility for such sale to financial intermediaries, instead of the individual SOEs.
7.        Equitizations, sales, and liquidations of 408 SOEs were processed over the period covered by PRSC 1.
8.        For 113 of these enterprises, the government sold a higher number of shares than required to meet the criterion of
minor equitizations. This significantly higher sale of shares in SOEs was fully consistent with the objective of the overall SOE
reform component in general and of the aim of "minor" equitizations specifically. One of the objectives of such equitizations
was to create conditions where the SOEs "could sell more shares either directly or through the stock market".
9.        The process of obtaining needed information on the operation of the three GCs ­ Vinatex, Vinacafe and Seaprodex ­
for preparing the terms of reference in conjunction with the National Steering Committee on Enterprise Reform and
Development (NSCERD), the GCs, the donors and the Bank, the lining up of adequate bilateral grant funding, the signing of
the grant agreement, and the selection of consultants through the international competitive bidding process, all have taken
considerable time in part for reasons outside the Borrower's control. 10.         On the credit risk committee, SOCBs have
enhanced staff and management awareness of credit-risk issues by creating risk-management centers and risk-prevention
centers in the SOCBs; developed a work plan to revise credit processes and credit manual in conjunction with SBV; lined up
technical assistance grants to support this activity and commensurate training and submitted formal SOCB proposals for
establishing credit committees to SBV for approval. On the second issue of creating a fully empowered audit committee
supported by independent internal control and audit functions and reporting directly to Board of Directors, SBV has indicated
that the Law on Credit Institutions will have to be changed to accommodate this type of committee. It anticipates that this type
of committee cannot be established before 2004. In the meanwhile, the SOCBs plan to strengthen the capacity and
effectiveness of the existing system where the Supervisory Board is responsible for the financial statements of SOCBs and
internal control departments report directly to management and to the Supervisory Board.
11        Implementation of this decision has been initiated in two ways. First, guidelines were issued in February and July
2002, requiring all banks to re-classify all loans, including policy loans, using the new criteria and complete this as
end-December 2002. Second, the SOCBs have developed a provisioning plan and begun to provision in 2002. The SOCBs, in
conjunction with SBV, have adopted an interim phased plan to provision fully for NPLs using the estimates from the
international standard audits for year 2000. This plan envisages provisioning, using own resources, by end of 2004 and 2005
for different banks. Actual provisioning was done in 2002.
12.       Total spending excludes amortization of public debt.



4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. Within the sectors supported by PRSC 1, the institutional development impact was
recorded in a clear and sustained manner in several areas. First, the legal framework for the entry
and operation of private firms in its various forms was strengthened (the new Enterprise Law and



                                                               - 18 -

the revised Foreign Investment Law), especially by the adoption of the principle that if some area
was not expressly forbidden by law, it was allowed for private activity. Also the vigorous
implementation and monitoring of implementation of the Enterprise Law across most provinces,
and reporting of that to a Party Committee, helped to ensure that the national law is implemented
in the provinces, or at least not breached nor ignored. Secondly, the revised Land Law permitting
land-use titles held by private individuals and firms as collateral or equity, the secured transactions
decree and foreign investment law permitting mortgages by banks, and the establishment of the
registration agency in both Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City made private transactions in land-use
rights more feasible, removing another hurdle in the operation of the private firms.

4.5.2. Third, major steps were taken to "level the playing field" for SOEs by (a) exposing them
to increased financial and market discipline as well as to rules of reporting financial information,
indicating that normal business operations applied to SOEs; (b) making transactions like
equitization of shares and outright sales of SOEs to private individuals more commonplace and
acceptable than it had ever been; (c) requiring higher levels of transparency through regular
reporting of financial information on performance to higher policy-making levels; and (d) making
management of SOEs accountable under the law for performance of their enterprises. These
changes in institutional underpinnings of SOE-operations are more likely to promote changes in
behavior of SOEs and their management and workers, even if equitization process may not
become easier given its decentralized nature, or SOEs lobbying for privileges for special
circumstances will not stop completely right away.

4.5.3. Fourth, a similar process of "leveling the playing field" for SOCBs, at par with JSBs, and
joint-ventures, was initiated under the program. Management of SOCBs is now being made
responsible for non-performing loans and profitability. They were being asked to move towards
commercial banking and away from policy and directed lending, given the new mechanisms of
independent annual audits using international accounting standards (IAS) and sharing of these
with higher decision-making levels, regular provisioning against distressed loans and thus
management exposure to scrutiny of budgetary funding of provisioning, requirement of MOF
guarantees for policy or directed loans, and greater accountability of management for SOCB's
performance. This has already generated pressures for relaxing central restrictions on staffing and
remuneration and giving more autonomy to SOCB management as well as for reducing requests
for directed lending ­ but it will depend on how senior leadership enforces this system as to
whether it changes behavior of SOCB management as expected.

4.5.4. Fifth, the signing of international trade agreements (AFTA, USBTA), the publication of
the annual roadmap of tariff reductions for ASEAN imports, the continuing implementation of
USBTA and the removal of all QRs except on sugar and petroleum, have put Vietnam firmly on
the track of an open trade and investment regime in goods and services sector over the
medium-term. Withdrawal from these commitments is highly costly and unlikely. Also, a large
internal constituency has been created who has benefited from easier access to imports and from
rapid growth in exports, and who will want continuation of this open regime. In addition, there
are now external pressures on the leadership to prevent Vietnam from falling behind ­ now that
China has joined WTO and Cambodia expects to do so later this year.




                                                 - 19 -

4.5.5. Sixth, efficiency and transparency of public expenditure management have been
strengthened and forces sustaining its continued improvement are in train. Over the last four
years, MOF and sector ministries have understood the importance of a sound public expenditure
management and reporting system to respond to the increasingly assertive National Assembly.
Also, donors and foreign investors are asking for a higher standard of management and
transparency in use of public resources. The process of doing public expenditure reviews --
central and provincial ­ and then attempting to correct identified weaknesses, have shown MOF
and sector ministries the advantages of strengthening these systems, given the scrutiny and their
accountability. Many more actions are being taken that go beyond the PRSC program, including
the recently approved government project on a public financial management information system
and debt-management system, all done at record pace.

4.5.6. Overall, the program supported by PRSC 1 initiated a series of institutional processes as
well as institutional changes that are likely to open up the economy further and more permanently
and contribute to strengthening the management of public resources on a longer-term basis while
developing Vietnam's domestic private sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. The reform program supported under PRSC 1 sought to stimulate and promote
investment, exports, GDP growth and poverty reduction. However, the global environment for
exports and foreign investment were beyond the control of the government and the implementing
agency. This environment worsened in 2001 and only modestly recovered in 2002, at the very
time that the reforms were expected to help. Clearly the resulting outcome and impact in terms of
Vietnam's export growth and foreign investment flows were less than it would have been if the
global environment had not deteriorate or had improved. In fact, in respect of agricultural
exports, large increases in export volume were accompanied by deterioration of world prices.
Not withstanding these adverse effects in the global environment, the average export earnings
growth of 7 percent and foreign investment of 3.2 percent of GDP were quite impressive under
these conditions.

5.1.2. Other factors not under the government control during the period of implementation
included the legacy of weak administrative capacity that influenced the pace and sequence of
various measures envisaged in the program. The close monitoring by the government's PRSC
Steering Committee headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister helped to overcome those
weaknesses. So did technical assistance from donors and the support from Bank staff in Hanoi.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Most of the measures supported by PRSC 1 were within the government control, and
directly monitored by the PRSC Steering Committee, under the Prime Minister's direction and
headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister, and the PRSC Secretariat for the day-today matters.
As the program is strongly owned by the government, achievements and fulfillments of the
committed actions were timely and effectively carried out with the exception of one action
concerning the restructuring plans for the three large GCs for which a waiver was granted. The


                                                     - 20 -

technical and quarterly monitoring at the senior level in the government helped to overcome some
challenges due to weak administrative capacity.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1 SBV is the principal implementing agency for PRSC 1, under a high-level inter-ministerial
coordination committee.          SBV was the Chair of the Secretariat Group which oversaw the
day-to-day implementation of the program. SBV coordinated with MOF, Ministry of Planning
and Investment (MPI), Ministry of Trade (MOT), and related ministries and agencies involved in
PRSC 1. The series of specific actions were generally under the control of the implementing
ministries. The PRSC Secretariat coordinated and monitored the implementation of the reform
program among the ministries and agencies with reports on accomplishments, problems, and
adjustments. The Secretariat also worked closely with Bank staff during the implementation of
the program and followed up on the specified conditions with relevant agencies and ministries to
meet the conditionality for Board presentation and to insure the implementation of measures to
fulfill the conditions for the second tranche release.


5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The credit was in the amount of US$250 million equivalent, $100 million equivalent of
which was disbursed as the first tranche at effectiveness. The second tranche of $150 million was
disbursed just prior to the closing date. The service charge on the credit was the standard IDA
rate of 0.75 percent. The credit term is 40 years with a grace period of 10 years. Four donors,
Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the United Kingdom, cofinanced the PRSC 1 operation
with the total contribution of US$47.5 million equivalent.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1. The program supported by PRSC 1 was grounded firmly in the solid commitment of the
government to carry out the reforms. Thus, the implementation of the program cited in the LDP
was done in a timely manner. The government achieved all the actions for Board presentation and
for the second tranche release (with the exception of one for which the waiver was approved).

6.1.2. In fact, the Government developed a well-designed reform program in the CPRGS that
not only reiterated the reform areas supported by PRSC 1, but also added other areas. On that
basis, a second PRSC was approved by the Bank Board in June 2003, based on another year of
reform measures implemented and completed. This is strong evidence of the continued
commitment to the reform program that was supported by PRSC 1. The sustainability of the
program supported by the first PRSC is thus rated highly likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1 As mentioned earlier, PRSC 1 is the first of a series of PRSCs designed to support the



                                                    - 21 -

government's program as outlined in the CPRGS. The approval of the second PRSC (PRSC 2)
by the Bank Board in June 2003 marks the continuation of Bank support to Vietnam under the
PRSC series. In addition, the Public Financial Management Reform Credit, approved in May
2003, will further advance the reform agenda in respect of public financial management that was
supported by PRSC 1.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank has maintained a strong and fruitful relationship with its counterparts in
Vietnam from all levels and played an important supporting role in the implementation of the
reform program of the client country. It has carried out an extensive economic dialogue with the
authorities for several years and championed the gradual but unwavering approach to reform of
the government. The Bank through its strong country office presence under the direction of an
active Country Director has provided an effective voice to advocate for the series of PRSCs
through its lending policies outlined in the CAS to assist the government with its poverty
reduction strategy and sustained growth with equity.


7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank supervised the project on the ground with resident staff. Bank staff helped the
officials responsible for the program to implement the conditions called for in PRSC 1, both prior
to Board presentation and those for the second tranche release. The presence of an engaged
Country Director, a persuasive Lead Economist and a team of dedicated national staff insured the
smooth and eventually successful supervision of the operation.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank has satisfactorily and effectively played a supportive role to the country through
its continuing economic dialogue with the authorities and responded timely to their request for
help to implement the country's reform program, along with other donor agencies. The Bank
provided timely and effective assistance to the country.

7.3.2. The nature and magnitude of the reform program called for support from several
development partners under the Consultative Group framework chaired by the Bank. Given the
thin capacity in the government agencies, it was crucial for the Bank to coordinate its activities
closely with other development partners. This aspect of program implementation was handled
well by Bank staff and this helped minimize overlap and prevented competing demands from
straining the authorities' capacity. This form of effective cooperation was supported and reflected
in the cofinancing of PRSC 1 by four donors, Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United
Kingdom.




                                               - 22 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam played an active role in the
preparation of the Credit through the PRSC Steering Committee under the direction of the First
Deputy Prime Minister and the sense of program ownership was very strong among the
government officials of all levels.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government implementation of the program was effective and satisfactory, reflecting
the strong ownership of the program by the senior officials responsible for the overall
macroeconomic policy who in turn provided the firm direction for the rank-and file officials to
implement the program, despite some challenges due to limited administrative capacity.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The PRSC Steering Committee maintained a continuing economic dialogue with Bank
staff. It coordinated and monitored the program under the direction of the First Deputy Prime
Minister, and helped carry out most of the policy actions called for in PRSC 1 before Board
presentation and also for the second tranche release. SBV provided an effective anchor for the
implementation of the program and was proactive in meeting the requirements called for by the
Credit.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The government overall performance was considered satisfactory. The preparation and
implementation of the PRSC 1 was effected under the solid leadership of the Prime Minister, the
firm direction of the First Deputy Prime Minister, and the experienced SBV staff with almost a
decade of experience working with international financial institutions.


8. Lessons Learned


8.1.    The major lessons from the PRSC 1 are:

·       A stable political environment is helpful for successful implementation of macroeconomic
and structural reforms. The risk of erosion of political support was minimized and reversals due
to political changes became less likely.

·       Broad-based consensus and strong government commitment permit timely
implementation. The process of consensus building that was undertaken by the government
before adopting the multi-year reform program, and the presence of capable and committed


                                               - 23 -

senior-level policymakers ensure that resistance to reform from various quarters could be
overcome. In Vietnam, the commitment of the Prime Minister and his Deputies and Ministers and
SBV Governor was key to overcoming some of the emerging difficulties in implementation,
especially in SOE and trade reform as well as in JSB restructuring.

·       Availability of technical assistance grants from donors and strong Bank team support are
extremely useful in low-income countries with weak technical working level capacity. This is
particularly true of process reforms of the sort undertaken in SOE and banking reforms which
need a lot of handholding of these institutions, especially since knowledge about them is limited in
the country. Donor-government-NGO working groups, providing support to implementation
urgently and when needed, are extremely useful and effective. Without such technical assistance,
improvements in SOE and SOCB performance would be difficult to generate.

·       Close working relations between the Bank and government counterparts improve the
quality of Bank assistance. Continuity of Bank staff working on Vietnam contributed to a fruitful
policy dialogue between the Bank and the authorities.

·       Effective donor coordination is crucial in a transitional economy. Capacity to implement
structural reforms can easily be overwhelmed by the relatively large number of donors. It is
therefore critical that donors coordinate their activities closely and minimize duplication of efforts
that over stretches government capacity. This aspect was handled well in both the design and
implementation of the PRSC 1 in Vietnam.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1     Borrower/implementing agency: State Bank of Vietnam.




                                                 - 24 -

Borrower/Implementing Agency Assessment




                                      - 25 -

- 26 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

9.2.    Cofinanciers: There were four cofinanciers: Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the
UK. They played a particularly important role in (i) providing grant financing as a complement to
IDA's funds, (ii) supporting technical assistance for the detailed implementation of the reform;
and (iii) engaging in and supporting the policy dialogues. Their support has brought to the fore
the important social dimension of reform with crucial technical assistance in the preparation of
reform.

Below are the comments from the Cofinanciers:

Comments from the United Kingdom, Department for International Development
Mr, John Burton

I have had a quick read and am generally very happy with the report. I
particularly welcome the references to the co-financiers 3.5.3, 5.4.2 and
especially 9.2. I would add that the involvement of co-financiers increases
the incentive for the government to participate in the PRSC negotiations
through the leverage the Bank gets, it increases the credibility of the PRSC
as an instrument, and it reduces transactions costs on the government
relative to the alternative of the donors doing other things in Vietnam with
these funds.

I particularly welcomed the footnote 7 on page 16 explaining why a waiver was
needed on the 3 General Corporations restructuring. This is an area that we
have been closely involved in (funding the TA). I have commented in relation
to other documents on the reasons for this delay, as some of the documents
absolved the government from any responsibility to a greater extent than I
would have done since I think the contracting process was quite slow (though
Bank procedures would no doubt be blamed in part for that). However I think
footnote 7 gives a very balanced evaluation.

Is there a mistake on the poverty rate which is quoted at 32% in the table on
page 10 and 29% in para 4.2.16?

The report does not really address the question that I get asked a lot
internally which is what difference does the PRSC really make if the



                                               - 27 -

government is committed to the reforms anyway, and the resources are so small
relative to government's own expenditure so are important neither as an
incentive nor as a source of finance for development. In other words, as the
Danish Ambassador asked at the CG meeting, Vietnam may be doing well, but what
difference do the donors make to this if anything? My answer is that a. the
government welcomes the expertise and dialogue that the Bank and donors
provide, so are not particularly motivated by the money, and b. reformers in
government welcome such an instrument as it strengthens their hand to force
the pace of reform. There may also be a value to the government in having a
PRSC in the signal this sends to the private sector and donors ie these
relatively meagre resources leverage a lot of other resources. But this is
only plausible speculation on my part and I would have welcomed an assessment
of the additionality and incentive value of the PRSC from the Bank.

I thought the lessons learned section was not as enlightening as I would have
hoped, though it is always difficult to find really sound lessons in this type
of exercise. I think that focusing on the very specific is more useful than
the "big picture" lessons of the type proposed here.

On lesson 1 I don't think this can be proven from this evaluation since we
would have to see whether countries that did not have a stable political
environment were able to undertake macro and structural reforms. Sometimes a
bit of instability in the politics can actually be a catalyst for reforms in
ossified systems (economists in India for example love a crisis as it is the
only time they get any economic reform).    Even in Vietnam alone we don't know
whether political instability would have led to more or less progress - we
only know that there was political stability and progress wasn't bad.

On lesson 2, I am not sure that this lesson is particularly applicable to
transition economies any more than it is to other aid dependent economies.
Lesson 3 is pretty much part of the current donor theology, as is Lesson 4.

Lesson 5 seems to be an oddity since actually the Bank have decided not to
have 2 tranche operations from now on and the two tranche structure of PRSC 1
was in fact a major mill-stone round all our necks since it ties the
disbursement in 2002 to conditions that were written in 2000 when we did not
know what would be happening in 2002. Much better to do the conditions on an
annual basis so that they are relevant to current circumstances, or even
better not to have conditions at all and reward progress based on what has
actually been achieved.

I would have thought that there might be more specific lessons on the details
of the conditions and the various reform programmes themselves - e.g. was it
appropriate to focus on the number of equitisations rather than the total
value of assets transferred?; did the design of the conditions take sufficient
account of the availability of accurate information? Is there no lesson to be
learned from the condition that required a waiver. I think that the lesson is
to determine accurate timelines, based on experience, for the delivery of TA
and follow up action by government to inform the design of lending operations
with this type of condition.

John

Comments from the Netherlands
Mr. Frans Makken

Dear all,




                                     - 28 -

With apologies for my late reply. Rakesh thanks for reminding me. I have
read the comments by John Burton and they look, as usual, very good and I
support them wholeheartedly. Rakesh asked me for some personal impressions,
which I am providing in addition to John's excellent comments.

Brief personal impressions with regard to the conduct of PRSC I:
- we were particularly glad to be able to participate in this important
credit, as it covers relevant bottlenecks in the system. Through an
exceptional decision by Dutch Parliament we could co-finance an on-budget
grant whilst the budget process itself is not transparent. This was possible
not only because PRSC addresses exactly those issues that are hindering
transparence but it also facilitates ongoing reforms and creates an enabling
environment for private sector reform;

- communication by the Bank was insufficient during the process;
co-financiers were not involved in a very special way; often debriefings
for supervision missions were announced at a very late stage whilst
co-financiers were not informed that such a mission was underway.
Debriefings were usually for the donor community at large. Also, involvement
in the formulation of conditionality was rather limited. These aspects have
been greatly improved in the course of PRSC II;

- there has been much uncertainty about the moment that the credit could be
disbursed. Particularly the role of certain board members (USA en IMF) were
apparently not well anticipated and required time-consuming discussions for
waivers that might or might not be accepted. For the Netherlands these
uncertainties are problematic, since too late disbursement normally leads to
complete loss of the money: loss to Vietnam and loss to ODA in general since
at such a short notice no alternative use can be sought. In PRSC II also
these problems have been addressed in a satisfactorily manner, whilst
accepting that such uncertainties can never fully be eradicated.

Kind regards,

Frans Makken

Comments from Sweden, Sweden International Development Agency
Mr. Karl-Anders Larsson

Mr. Larsson shares most of the comments from Mr. Burton and Makken.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




10. Additional Information




                                             - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                1
             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
Please see the policy Matrix in Annex __




Output Indicators:
                                                                1
             Indicator/Matrix               Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project




                                                  - 30 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
  IDA                                                         250.00            250.00               100
  Cofinanciers                                                 47.53             47.53               100

  Total Baseline Cost                                         297.53            297.53
                          Total Project Costs                 297.53            297.53
                    Total Financing Required                  297.53            297.53




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
      Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          Bank      Govt.       CoF.     Bank       Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Budget                   250.00                 47.53    250.00               47.53     100.0          100.0




                                                  - 31 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)            Implementation Development
                    Month/Year       Count           Specialty                           Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               March 1997                    10     5 Economists, 2 FMS, 1 SOE
                                                    experts, 1 lawyer,1 social security
                                                    expert
               March 1999                     3     2 SOE experts;
                                                    1 Economist
               From mid-1999,                 5     5 Economits
               preparation work
               was done by
               field-based staff led
               by the Lead
               Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Appraisal and                  9     6 Economists, 3 FMS                     S               S
               negotiations were
               done by
               field-based staff
               led by the Lead
               Economist


 Supervision
               Supervision was
               done from the
               field by the field
               Lead Economist
               and other field
               economists
               September 2002                  2    2 FMS                                   S               S
               October 2002                    1    1 FMS                                   S               S
               January 2003                    2    2 FMX                                   S               S


 ICR
               No Mission                     1     Economist                               S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                     328                           )1,149.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            85                                 )
  Supervision                                    413                              297.3
  ICR                                               9                             30.0




                                                    - 33 -

Total    422         1,476.8




           - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



ANNEX 7.doc




                                      - 37 -

- 38 -

