                                   Grant Number TF 050356


DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT


      (Poverty Reduction Support Program)



                    between


     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM



                     and



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


       As Administrator of Grant Funds
           Provided by Denmark




            Dated   (1,    200
                                                                       GRANT NUMBER TF 050356


                                  DANISH GRANT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated /7 ,PPL(L, 2O0 between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by Denmark.

         WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated July 5, 2001, between the Recipient and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), for the support of the Recipient's program
of actions, policies and objectives for poverty reduction and economic structural adjustment (the
Program, as referred to in the first preamble to the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association agreed to provide to the Recipient a credit in the amount of SDR 197,200,000 (the
Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;

        WHEREAS (B)Denmark has agreed to provide assistance in support of Program; and

       (C) pursuant to an Administration Agreement dated December 20, 2001 between Denmark
and the Association (the Administration Agreement), the Association has agreed to administer on
behalf of Denmark the amount of seventy-eight million four hundred thousand Danish kroner
(DKK 78,400,000) (the Danish Grant) to be used in support of the Program under the terms and
conditions of this Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                                             ARTICLE I

                                  General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through
October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

             (i)     Article I;

             (ii)    Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (13) and (14),
                     2.02 and 2.03;

             (iii)   Section 3.01;

            (iv)     Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
                                             -2-



      (v)     Article V;

      (vi)    Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (1), 6.03, 6.04
              and 6.06;

      (vii)   Section 8.01 (b);

      (viii) Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;

      (ix)    Article X;

      (x)     Article XI; and

      (xi)    Sections 12.01 (b), 12.03 and 12.04.

(b)    The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:

      (i)     the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than
              in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (e) thereof, and the last use of such term in
              Section 5.01 thereof, means the Association acting as Administrator of the
              Danish Grant pursuant to the Administration Agreement referred to in
              Recital (C) of this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the tern
              "Association" shall also include the Association acting in its own capacity;

      (ii)    the term "Borrower" wherever used in the General Conditions, means the
              Recipient;

      (iii)   the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the General
              Conditions, means this Agreement;

      (iv)    the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the
              Danish Grant;

      (v)     the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, means
              the Danish Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on its
              books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Danish Grant
              is credited; and

      (vi)    Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

                  "Withdrawals from the Danish Grant Account shall be made in Danish
              kroner; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the
              proceeds of the Danish Grant have been paid or are payable in another
              currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase
              such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."
                                                -3-




        Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


                                          ARTICLE II

                                        The Danish Grant

        Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Danish Grant in an amount of
seventy-eight million four hundred thousand Danish kroner (DKK 78,400,000).

        Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions in paragraph (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this
Section, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Danish Grant from the Danish Grant
Account in support of the Program.

        (b)    The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Administrator the first request
for withdrawal from the Danish Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. All
withdrawals from the Danish Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the
Deposit Account.

        (c)      The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Danish Grant shall not be used
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule I to the Development
Credit Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the
Danish Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account
an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request,
refund such amount to the Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such
request shall be credited to the Danish Grant Account for cancellation.

         (d)     No withdrawals shall be made from the Danish Grant Account after the aggregate
of the proceeds of the Danish Grant withdrawn from the Danish Grant Account shall have
reached the equivalent of DKK 39,200,000, unless and until the Association shall have approved
the withdrawal of the second tranche of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of Section
2.02 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.

         (e)      The Administrator shall not be obliged to provide funds under the Danish Grant
to the Recipient except to the extent the Administrator shall have received funds from Denmark
for this purpose.
                                                 -4-



       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as the
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
d ate.

                                          ARTICLE III

                                      Particular Covenants

         Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Administrator shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.

       (b)      Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.

        (c)      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Recipient shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be taken after
the disbursement of the Danish Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing the
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.

        Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator's request, the Recipient shall:

        (a)      have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;

         (b)    furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six (6) months after the date of the Administrator's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and

       (c)      furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested.
                                         ARTICLE IV

                                 Effectiveness; Termination

        Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties
hereto or the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever is later.

         Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until disbursement under this
Agreement has been completed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their
obligations hereunder, provided, however, that if the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, or the Administration Agreement terminates prior to
the termination of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate automatically and shall cease
to have any further force or effect.


                                             ARTICLE V

                                            Representation

        Section 5.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

       Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of
the General Conditions:

        For the Recipient:

                        State Bank of Vietnam
                        49 Ly Thai To Street
                        Hanoi
                        Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                        Cable address:          Telex:                 Facsimile:

                        VIETBANK               412248                  (84-4)8250612
                        Hanoi                  NHTWVT
                                               -6-



       For the Administrator:

                       International Development Association
                       1818 H Street, N.W.
                       Washington, D.C. 20433
                       United States of America

                       Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

                       INDEVAS                 64145 (MCI)             (1-202) 477-6391
                       Washington, D.C.        or 248423 (MCI)


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
           , y c e lain,,
                -            as of the day and year first above written.
                                ,




                                        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                        By

                                             f; D^ c           1 Ge^^A NsA ,
                                              STXtb' D99N-F U(El TM      -




                                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                        as Administrator of the Danish Grant


                                        By

                                                                 --Andrew Steer
                                                        '          Country Director
                                                                World Bank in Vietnam
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
