                                     Grant Number TF 050260


NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT


        (Poverty Reduction Support Program)



                     between


       SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM



                       and



   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION


          As Administrator of Grant Funds
            Provided by the Netherlands




               Dated )4-JL , 200 2
                                                                      GRANT NUMBER TF 050260


                          NETHERLANDS GRANT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated 17 4piV L, 2002between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
VIETNAM (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association) acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds provided by the
Netherlands.

         WHEREAS (A) pursuant to an agreement dated July 5, 2001, between the Recipient and
the Association (the Development Credit Agreement), for the support of the Recipient's program
of actions, policies and objectives for poverty reduction and economic structural adjustment (the
Program, as referred to in the first preamble to the Development Credit Agreement), the
Association agreed to provide to the Recipient a credit in the amount of SDR 197,200,000 (the
Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;

        WHEREAS (B) the Netherlands, through its Minister for Development Cooperation, has
agreed to provide assistance in support of Program; and

      (C) pursuant to an Arrangement dated November 27, 2001 between the Netherlands and
the Association (the Arrangement), the Association has agreed to administer on behalf of the
Netherlands the amount of fifteen million two hundred and one thousand and six hundred thirty-
seven EUR (15,201,637) (the Netherlands Grant) to be used in support of the Program under the
terms and conditions of this Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


                                             ARTICLE 1

                                  General Conditions; Definitions

        Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through
October 6, 1999, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:

             (i)     Article I;

             (ii)    Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (13) and (14),
                     2.02 and 2.03;

             (iii)   Section 3.01;
                                            -2-



    (iv)     Sections 4.01 and 4.05;

    (v)      Article V;

    (vi)     Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (I), 6.03, 6.04
             and 6.06;

    (vii)    Section 8.01 (b);

    (viii) Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08;

    (ix)     Article X;

    (x)      Article XI; and

    (xi)     Sections 12.01 (b), 12.03 and 12.04.

(b) The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:

    (i)      the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, other than
             in Sections 2.01 (6) and 6.02 (e) thereof, and the last use of such term in
             Section 5.01 thereof, means the Association acting as Administrator of the
             Netherlands Grant pursuant to the Arrangement referred to in Recital (C) of
             this Agreement, except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also
             include the Association acting in its own capacity;

     (ii)    the term "Borrower" wherever used in the General Conditions, means the
             Recipient;

     (iii)   the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the General
             Conditions, means this Agreement;

     (iv)    the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means the
             Netherlands Grant;

     (v)     the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General Conditions, means
             the Netherlands Grant Account, an account opened by the Administrator on
             its books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the
             Netherlands Grant is credited; and

     (vi)    Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:

                 "Withdrawals from the Netherlands Grant Account shall be made in
             EUR; provided, however, that if the expenditures to be financed out of the
             proceeds of the Netherlands Grant have been paid or are payable in another
                                                -3-



                    currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the Recipient, purchase
                    such currency with the proceeds of such withdrawal."

        Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires,
the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Recitals to this Agreement and in the
Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


                                          ARTICLE II

                                     The Netherlands Grant

         Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Netherlands Grant in an amount of
fifteen million two hundred and one thousand and six hundred thirty-seven EUR ( 15,201,637).

        Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions in paragraph (b), (c), (d) and (e) of this
Section, the Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant from the Netherlands
Grant Account in support of the Program.

        (b)     The Recipient shall open, prior to furnishing to the Administrator the first request
for withdrawal from the Netherlands Grant Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator. All
withdrawals from the Netherlands Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the
Deposit Account.

        (c)     The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant shall not be
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
proceeds of the Netherlands Grant shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so
excluded, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the
Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall
so request, refund such amount to the Administrator. Amounts refunded to the Administrator
upon such request shall be credited to the Netherlands Grant Account for cancellation.

        (d)     No withdrawals shall be made from the Netherlands Grant Account after the
aggregate of the proceeds of the Netherlands Grant withdrawn from the Netherlands Grant
Account shall have reached the equivalent of 5,672,253, unless and until the Association shall
have approved the withdrawal of the second tranche of the Credit in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement.

        (e)     The Administrator shall not be obliged to provide funds under the Netherlands
Grant to the Recipient except to the extent the Administrator shall have received funds from the
Netherlands for this purpose.
                                                -4-




       Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as the
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.

                                          ARTICLE III

                                      Particular Covenants

         Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient and the Administrator shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and
the actions specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.

       (b)      Prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the
Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.

        (c)      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Recipient shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be taken after
the disbursement of the Netherlands Grant which would have the effect of materially reversing
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement.

        Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator's request, the Recipient shall:

        (a)      have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;

         (b)    furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six (6) months after the date of the Administrator's request for such audit, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall
have reasonably requested; and

       (c)     furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning the Deposit
Account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested.
                                               -5-




                                          ARTICLE IV

                                  Effectiveness; Termination

        Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties
hereto or the Effective Date of the Development Credit Agreement, whichever is later.

         Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until disbursement under this
Agreement has been completed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their
obligations hereunder, provided, however, that if the Development Credit Agreement terminates
prior to the termination of this Agreement, or the Arrangement terminates prior to the termination
of this Agreement, this Agreement shall terminate automatically and shall cease to have any
further force or effect.


                                              ARTICLE V

                                             Representation

        Section 5.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of Vietnam is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

       Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of
the General Conditions:

        For the Recipient:

                        State Bank of Vietnam
                        49 I,y Thai To Street
                        Hanoi
                        Socialist Republic of Vietnam

                         Cable address:          Telex:                   Facsimile:

                         VIETBANK                412248                   (84-4)8250612
                         Hanoi                   NHTWVT
                                             -6-



       For the Administrator:

                       International Development Association
                       1818 H Street, N.W.
                       Washington, D.C. 20433
                       United States of America
                                                       
                       Cable address:         Telex:                          Facsimile:
                                                          
                       INDEVAS                64145 (MCI)                     (1-202) 477-6391
                       Washington, D.C.       or 248423 (MCI)


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in
  __________j_uyras of the day and year first above written.


                                      SOC"AT Tq !r T P1JBLIC OF VIETNAM
                                                   -




                                      By
                                     7
                                                                            Authorized Representative
                                                       LE Duc Ttfay J. C ,^&   2.
                                                        1371/1-rE  A)6 O V I N7 )1

                                      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                      as Administrator of the Netherlands Grant


                                      By
                                                                    Nislia Agrawal
                                                                 Acting Country Director
                                                                 World Bank in Vietnam
                                    Date: D.
                                                          1 2,    ",-SU57
"The original is a PDF file with no Text. We were not able to OCR and extract the Text. Error:PDF01"
